Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19877- MEX
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON THE SECOND PHASE OF A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55 MILLION
TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FORA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN MARGINAL AREAS PROJECT - APL II
November 24, 1999
Mexico Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 1999)
Currency Unit = $ Mexican Pesos
1$   =US$ 0.11
US$ 1 = $9.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL             Adaptable Program Loan
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CDR             Comision de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development Commission)
CONASUPO        Compania Nacional de Subsistencia Populares (Grain Marketing Board)
CRDS            Consejo Regional de Desarrollo Sustentable (Regional Sustainable Development
Councils)
FIRCO           Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido (Trust Fund for Shared Risks)
FONAES          Fondo Nacional de Empresas de Solidaridad (National Soilidarity Business Fund)
GATT            General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
INI             Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National Indigenous Institute)
INIFAP          Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales y Agropecuarias (National Institute for
Forestry,
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
NAFIN           Nacional Financiera (National Development Bank)
NAFTA           North America Free Trade Agreement
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
PROCAMPO    Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo (National Program for Agricultural Direct
Support)
SAGAR           Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia y Desarrollo Rural (Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural
SEDESOL         Secretaria de Desarrollo Social (Ministry of Social Development)
SEMARNAP    Secretaria de Medio Ambiente, Recursos Naturales y Pesca (Ministry of Environment,
Natural
SCT             Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Ministry of Comunication and Transport)
SINDER          Sistema Nacional de Extension Rural (Nacional System of Rural Extension)
SOE             Statement of Expenditures
SRA             Secretaria de la Reforma Agraria (Ministry of Land Tenure)
Vice I'resident:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Sector Leader/Tearn Leader:    Adolfo Brizzi



Mexico
Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL II
CONTENTS
A: Programn Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and programn phasing:                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                        3
3. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                    6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       11
3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          16
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         18
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            19
2. Financial                                                                           19
3. Technical                                                                           20
4. Institutional                                                                       20
5. Social                                                                              21
6. Environmental assessment                                                            22
7. Participatory approach                                                              23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      23



2. Critical risks                                                                     24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     25
G. Main conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           25
2. Other                                                                              25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         48
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement A4rrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     61
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       63
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  64
Annex 1O: Country at a Glance                                                            66
Annex 11: Characterization of the Indigenous Population                                  68
MAP(S)
IBRD 30581



MEXICO
Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL II
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCC1F
Date: November 24, 1999                            Team Leader: Adolfo Brizzi
Country Manager/lDirector: Olivier Lafourcade      Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P057530                                Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
USS m     %      USS m       US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1       47.00    74.6    16.00        63.00       07/15/98   06/30/2003 Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
Loan/                                                                 (NAFIN)
Credit
APL 2        55.00    75.3    18.00       73.00    02/15/2000   06/30/2005 Nacional Financiera S.N.C.
Loan/                                                                 (NAFIN)
Credit
APL 3        78.00    75.0    26.00      104.00
Loan/
Credit                                                     ______ ______________
APL 4       49.00    75.4    16.00        65.00
Loanl
Credit
Total      229.00             76.00      305.00
Project Financing Data
O Loan          O Credit        El Grant        [I Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 55.0
Proposed Terms: [ To be defined  a Multicurrency  El Single currency Fixed-spread Loan *
OI Standard Variable El Fixed       1 LIBOR-based
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 7.5
Commitment fee: .75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Government                                                      16.30           1.70          18.00
IBRD                                                            50.00           5.00          55.00
IDA
Total:                                                         66.30            6.70         73,00
Borrower: NAFIN S.N.C.



Responsible agency:
SAGAR
Other Agency(ies):
SAGAR
Address: Recreo, 51. Colonia Actipan del Valle. Mexico, DF - 03230
Contact Person: Eduardo Perez Haro
Tel: +525 5534 9263                  Fax: +525 5524 0667                  Email: dg.dgpr@sagar.gob.mx
Estimated disbursements 4 Bank FY/US$M):
Annual      3.0           8.0         10.0         10.0        11.0          11.0         2.0
Cumulative      3.0          11.0         21.0        31.0         42.0         53.0        55.0
Project implementation period: 2000-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 04/15/2000  Expiected closing date:  06/30/2005
* The fixed-spread loan instrument provides a disbursement-linked amortization structure with, for this loan, 7.5 year
mnaturity period for each disbursed amount, including 5 years of grace.
OCSAFtPADF  olb:0S19,l992
-2 -



A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Program, of which this project is the second phase, seeks to improve the well-being and the income of
smallholders in targeted marginal areas, which are among the poorest of the country, through sustainable
increases in productivity and better food security.
The program aims at implementing over a period of about 10 years a phased approach of progressive
geographic expansion in tentatively four phases:
-  Phase I, covering 6 regions, was approved by the Board in January 1998 and is under implementation.
The World Bank Project Appraisal Document No. 17263-ME describes it;
-  Phase II covers nine new regions and is described in this PAD; and
-  Phase III and IV will consider the integration of additional areas according to the program requirements
and the availability of the correspondent national budget.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project objective of the phase II reflects the program goal, aiming at improving smallholders'
productivity and food security in a sustainable way in nine new marginal areas. This second phase expands
geographically drawing from the experience of phase I.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards program development objectives are being measured by monitoring and evaluating key
perfornance indicators such as: (i) the adoption of new technology, increases in yields and income, and
better food security; (ii) the successful integration of sustainable natural resource management practices;
and (iii) the promotion of off-farm activities and employment opportunities. At completion, the program
will have covered a number of areas with an estimated total population of about 10 million people of which
about 2 million would benefit directly from program support.
Progress towards the development objective of phase I and II will be driven by the same overall objectives
of the whole program and will build on the indicators described in the logical framework in Annex 1.
Moreover, triggers indicators have been developed for moving from one phase to the next so as to assess
intermediary results and implementation performance. As described in B.4, performance needs to be
differentiated according to the time-frame on which the evaluation is based. Therefore, for the areas that
joined the program last, indicators will be more qualitative and process-oriented, geared towards
institutional capacity, social participation, and performance of the technical assistance. As the program
rolls out and implementation results are available, trigger indicators will be more quantitative-oriented.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-92; IFCIR99-82                           Date of latest CAS discussion:
06/08/99
The joint IBRD/IFC Mexico Country Assistance Strategy has been discussed by the Board of Directors in
June 1999. The CAS is structured along three main, interrelated thrusts: (i) social sustainability, (ii)
macro-economic stability and sustainable growth; and (iii) effective public govemance.
While the Rural Development in Marginal Areas program is national in scope, it is a poverty targeted
operation which addresses development issues in parts of the country where persistent and growing poverty
- 3 -



remains the single most important challenge to the well-being of the mostly rural populations. The
overarching objective is to stimulate the integration of small/marginal producers into a growth process in
combination with improvements in the delivery of support services, institutional strengthening and private
sector development. In this respect, the program is at the core of the rural poverty alleviation strategy of the
CAS. It contributes to social development through social capital formation, community development and
increased participation of beneficiaries in thie decision-making as well as through the promotion of better
institutional coordination with other agencies at the regional level. It also fosters sustainable growth in
these areas through improved productivity in conjunction with natural resources management and
micro-enterprise development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture has traditionally been a weak sector of Mexico's economy. In 1995 the agricultural GDP
accounted for about 7 percent of total GDiP, down from 19 percent in 1960. The sector's slow growth,
coupled with stagnating productivity and wages, has caused the population employed in the sector to drop
from 50 percent of total labor force to about 25 percent during the same period. However, agriculture is
expected to remain a significant economic .force, counting on a competitive commercial sector that uses
modem technology and achieves high yields., and on a productive potential largely untapped, especially in
rainfed areas.
Over the past ten years, Mexico's rural sector has been the subject of sweeping reforms. They led to the
emergence of a largely liberalized, market-oriented, and private-sector-driven rural economy.  The
Government switched from distortionary commodity price subsidies to direct income transfers through the
PROCAMPO programn. It also embarked on the revision of the regulatory framework for land tenure
(1992) and a subsequent land titling program (PROCEDE-1995), permitting ejido land transactions. The
largely successful transfer of irrigation districts to the water users has formed the basis for the development
of water markets. At the same time, the inclusion of the agricultural sector in international trade
negotiations through the GATT and NAFTA agreements has created the basis for progressive exposure to
global forces and the additional adjustments that will follow. Finally, the recent elimination of the tortilla
subsidy has permitted to complete the reform agenda in the maize sector by relinquishing the intervention
of CONASUPO.
These important reforms permitted the establ[ishment of a sound policy framework and fostered efficiency,
but the performance of the sector has been lagging and growth has stagnated. While commercial
agriculture has largely benefited from the reforms and has responded positively to the devaluation of 1994,
the large ejido sector is going through significant adjustment, increasingly integrating into the non-farm
economy, diversifying income sources, and pursuing greater labor market participation and migration.
Moreover, Mexico's rural poverty has kept widening in recent years, especially among the rural indigenous
populations. Two-thirds of the rural population in the southern states is considered poor (compared with
one-third nationwide). Four out of every five indigenous people-who, as a group, account for a third of
Mexico's poor-are considered poor. The highl incidence and persistence of poverty among the indigenous
population raises issues of equity, social inclusion, and access to productive assets-markets, land, labor,
capital, infrastructure, and technology. This inequity issue is likely to threaten the social balance of
Mexican society by polarizing the development agenda. It also challenges conventional govermment
programs to find ways to address indigenous issues in a fashion that is consistent with cultural preferences,
traditional community authority structures, and local knowledge and needs.
The rural economy is poised for a sustainable enhancement of its productivity and performance, but a
number of second-generation reforms will need to be pursued and constraints addressed to respond to the
- 4 -



challenges posed by international competition, the need to diversify the production pattern, and the
compelling responsibility to address equity issues. Promoting agricultural productivity, fostering
employment and micro-enterprise development in rural areas while accompanying the progressive
integration of the sector to the rest of the economy, and addressing poverty issues, are the main challenges
of the rural development agenda. They underpin the following main sector issues:
-  the incentive framework for the sector shows declining real prices and negative nominal protection
coefficients stemming from uncompetitive and segmented markets, high marketing margins, storage,
and transaction costs. Also the low level of farmers organization hinders their capacity to better
integrate in the production-marketing chain and in the rest of the economy;
- irnproving the performance of financial services to the rural population remains one of the major issues
facing the development of the sector. The shallowness of both formal and informal rural financial
markets hinders the modernization of the sector and movement to more lucrative, non-farm activities;
- the development of more efficient factor markets (land, water, and warehousing) could also be fostered
through a better regulatory and legal framework, facilitating secure transactions and offering better
collateral possibilities; and
-  public programs should pursue enhanced smallholder access to basic services, information, technology,
and technical assistance and improve efficiency in the delivery of basic infrastructure and, when
necessary, of seed capital for investments and innovation.
In line with the fundamental structural reforms that have taken place in the sector over the past decade and
the challenges still facing the rural agenda, the strategy that the Government and the Bank would be
pursuing in the sector is oriented towards the following main lines: First, provide support to the current
policy orientation and its ensuing second generation initiatives to (i) improve the efficiency of agricultural
marketing channels and the management of inventories in following CONASUPO's closure, together with a
renewed effort to promote farmers organization and micro-enterprise development, (ii) develop financial
services in rural areas and provide support to the development of savings and loan schemes at the
community level, and (iii) foster a better understanding of the functioning of land markets. Second, the
living standards of the rural poor, especially indigenous populations, and of small-holders needs to be
imnproved through increased targeted attention to the development of marginal areas and through the
enhancement of agricultural productivity. Third, complete and consolidate the transfer of irrigation districts
to water users associations, and developing co-financing mechanisms for their modernization. Fourth,
develop a direct dialogue with the states and support the strengthening of local institutional capacity under
the new decentralization framework (Ramo 33) for the provision of basic infrastructure in rural areas, and
promoting more effective institutional coordination of Government programs for local regional
development. The Bank will continue to deepen its knowledge of the social and cultural factors that affect
the economic well-being of indigenous populations and their heritage and to mainstream its findings in the
design and implementation of sectoral operations.
In mid 1996, the Government launched a far-reaching national rural development program (Alianzapara el
Campo) aimed at addressing the issues that affect smallholder production and income. It fosters
agricultural productivity through productive investments (under a matching-grants scheme) and the
provision of more effective support services (research, extension, information, training) for a wide range of
agricultural sub-programs. The cornerstone of the Alianza program is its decentralized approach and the
delegation of administration and decision-making to the States. The program offers the opportunity and the
operational vehicle to implement a decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel technical and
- 5 -



financial assistance directly to small farmers and poor communities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Rural Development in Marginal Areas is one of the programs under the Alianza framework. It
promotes productive investments and support services for small farmers through targeted interventions in
selected marginal areas with a productive potential. Through this program the Government aims at
addressing, at the national level, the long tenn development goal of reducing the widening rural poverty gap
and fostering sustainable agricultural productivity. In particular it aims at facilitating the integration in the
development process of small farmers living in marginal areas. It also fosters opportunities for the social
sector to access financial resources while promoting the development of micro-finance schemes at the
community level.
In shaping the strategy underlying the pro,gram, the Government has made a number of choices: a) it
recognizes that a targeted approach is more likely to address the specific socio-economic and natural
resources management issues facing these marginal areas; b) it promotes a decentralized strategy,
devolving responsibility for the implementation of the agricultural programs at the state level and fosters
implementation arrangements that strengthen local ownership through a special focus on regional
development; c) it places demand-driven and participatory approaches at the core of a capacity-building
process where farmer organizations and communities become legitimate partners and clients in the
provision of support services; d) it recognizes the lack of capital for productive investrnents as a key
constraint to unleash the development potential of these areas while also fostering off-farm activities as part
of a poverty-alleviating growth strategy; and e) it facilitates access to the "seed capital" required to invest
in sustainable productive activities while moving away from traditional paternalistic approaches of
all-subsidy schemes.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Through a community-based approach, the program will provide phased but sustained support in a growing
number of marginal areas so as to: (i) facilitate the introduction of sustainable agricultural production
systems and diversification through improved access to financial resources and agricultural services; (ii)
foster community socio-economic development, organization, and participation; (iii) strengthen the
provision of effective technical support services and training to farmers and producers organizations; and
(iv) promote an effective decentralized decisicn-making system enhancing institutional coordination.
Implementation of the program in the first six areas of phase I (Mixe, Cuicateca, and Mazateca, in the state
of Oaxaca, and the Huasteca region, a contiguous area expanding over parts of the three states of
Veracruz, San Luis Potosi and Hidalgo) has served as a starting point for the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR) to establish the platform on which to develop a long tern
national rural development program for the poorest areas of the country. As part of the overall framework
of the APL approach adopted for this program, expansion to new phases will be subject to a two-prong
approach (described below) characterized by: (i) the preparation of a set of studies for each new region
covering the social assessment, the technical and economical feasibility, and the environmental analysis;
and (ii) the preparation of evaluation reports of previous phases assessing progress made in the
implementation of the program along the trigge-r indicators defined for each phase.
Preparation studies for Phase II
Implementation of Phase I has developed considerable momentum and interest in Government to expand the
- 6 -



program to a larger number of marginal areas than initially predicted. There has also been strong demand
from a large number of States to join the program. Accordingly, SAGAR received a much larger allocation
of national budget for this program, in recognition of its importance as a rural poverty alleviation strategy.
Eighteen new regions have been studied by independent consultants covering all aspects related to social,
productive, economic and environmental issues. All studies have been completed and analyzed so as to
assess eligibility criteria, targeting mechanisms, and adequate levels of consultation. This permitted to
establish a base of nine new regions that would fonn the second phase to be supported by the Bank.
Evaluation of the triggers indicators for moving to phase II (see Addendum 1 to Annex 1)
Independent evaluation reports were prepared for each one of the regions under phase I. The reports are
based on farmers' surveys and were discussed with the Regional Councils, state and SAGAR authorities, so
as to make recommnendations and propose corrective actions when deemed necessary. The evaluation
reports permit to gauge performance according to a number of trigger indicators previously defined for
moving to the second phase. The assessment of triggers performance should be viewed as an intermediary
evaluation of some key principles of program design, so as to assess whether they are sound and replicable
to other areas. Program's performnance is likely to present differences from one region to the other according
to the specific arrangements that each State has adopted for its implementation. Because of the early stage
of the evaluation process (about 18 months of activity), triggers have been defined as process-oriented
indicators, focusing on: (i) the project's institutional arrangements and their effectiveness in promoting
decentralized decision-making and the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system; (ii)
community development and participation as well as the promotion of conmmunity-based revolving funds;
and (iii) the performance of the technical assistance and of the extension workers. Trigger indicators have
permitted early identification of risks and the definition of corrective measures. It is felt that the key
characteristics underpinning the strategy of the program are sound and warrant its expansion. Addendum 1
to Annex I provides a more detailed description of achievements under the triggers, recommendations for
improvement, and agreed corrective actions; the overall assessment is summarized below.
i) Institutional Arrangements, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Decentralization of decision making through the establishment of the Regional Sustainable
Development Councils (CRDS) in every region and the joint participation of producer organizations
and representatives of relevant public institutions, has been a very powerful instrument to improve
ownership and accountability at the local level. The CRDSs have permitted social appropriation of the
project and increased transparency in its operations. The CRDSs have also become an important
vehicle in the promotion of institutional coordination among the various development agencies
operating in the region under the intenrninisterial agreement for regional cooperation signed between the
Secretaries of SAGAR, SEMARNAP (Environment, Natural Resources and Fisheries), SEDESOL
(Social Development), SCT (Communication and Transport), and SRA (Land Reform), which were
more recently joint by Health, Education and Commerce (see D.2). This is offering new perspectives
for achieving more consistent planning and program implementation based on locally-determined
priorities.
The project admninistrative arrangements proved to be an important progress in permitting local
structures to evaluate sub-projects and access funds directly for their implementation. Moreover, they
offer a single-window opportunity to access other Govenmment programs. Variations existed in the
capacity of the different States to achieve smooth implementation, and improvements are necessary to
shorten the period of time between sub-project submission and funds approval. While in the States of
the Huasteca (Veracruz, Hidalgo and San Luis Potosi), administrative arrangements pennitted
- 7 -



implementation to be carried out in a relatively satisfactory way, delays were observed in Oaxaca
mostly due to the late release of budgetary resources and the establishment of unnecessary bureaucratic
requirements which were not part of the initial procedures. Agreements have been reached on a number
of corrective actions (see Addendum I to Annex 1).
The monitoring and evaluation system has permitted to establish a flow of information from every
region on physical and financial implennentation based on the manual processing of monitoring sheets
and sub-project preparation forms contained in the Operational Manual. However, in line with the
requirements that an expanded program would need, a new network-based monitoring system has been
developed that will provide more consistent, harmonized, and consolidated information on
implementation performance at the regional, State and central level.
ii) Community Development and Participation
The project has generated considerable iinterest, participation, and expectation among communities and
producer organizations. Submission of sub-projects and demand for assistance has exceeded initial
expectation. Where participatory community development plans were prepared, they proved
instrumental in establishing a strategic base on which to identify sub-projects, create economy of scale
and limit the risk of dispersion or lack of focus of program interventions. The promotion of
mechanisms for local leadership that stimulate communities to progressively take responsibility for the
continuation of project activities has been very positive, although still at an early stage. In particular, in
certain regions (Huasteca), the nomination by the communities of their own "promoter" of project
activities helped ensure better linkages vvith the technical assistance and strengthen their social capital.
Also, the promotion of cost recovery mechanisms that would feed into community capitalization funds
has slowly started to operate but will require strengthening. A renewed effort is now being implemented
in every region with the support of specialized private technical assistance with experience in operating
and developing self-sustained savings and loan schemes.
iii) Performance of the Technical Assistance
The project has promoted a system of tlechnical assistance which is community-based and demand
driven. All sub-projects approved have received support from extension agents and/or technical
assistance for their preparation, however, increased effort has to be pursued to ensure sustained
support during sub-project implementation. On average about one agent has been deployed for every
four to five assisted communities. Most agents have been trained on the strategy promoted by the
program and on the preparation of participatory community development plans. Most agents speak the
indigenous language or get the support of local promoters or agents of the National Indigenous Institute
(INI) in case of unavailability of good technicians that can also combine indigenous language
proficiency. The presence of technical assistance in these remote areas, where Government programs
have had little penetration in the past, is seen as a major achievement by local communities. In some of
the poorest mountain areas, performance has been mainly driven by individual motivation which has
been challenged by the very difficult living conditions and the absence of most basic services. There,
the main issue has been to maintain continuity and quality of the support. In Oaxaca,. the performance
of the extension agents has suffered most because of the budgetary issue, staff rotation, and a still weak
integration with the communities. Considerable improvement in the performance of the technical
assistance has been introduced through the hiring of professional private services (like in the Huasteca
of San Luis Potosi) that have been entrusted with the selection, training and coordination of the
extension agents. It was agreed that this approach will now be recommended to all regions.
-8 -



Triggers indicators for moving from phase II to phase III (see Addendum 2 to Annex 1)
In order to help incorporate required adjustment in project design, facilitate the appraisal process of new
phases, and determine its appropriateness and readiness for integration under the program, trigger
indicators have been developed for subsequent phases. They will be assessed and measured as part of the
monitoring and evaluation system and presented in the evaluation reports prepared for each area.
Given the nature of the program, trigger indicators for expanding the program further to a third phase, need
to be differentiated so as to remain consistent with the initial concept of progressive geographic expansion.
Performance of the areas that entered the program last (those under the proposed phase II) would be
measured against process-oriented indicators (driven by an emphasis on institutional capacity and
adequacy, community participation, and performance of the technical assistance), while the areas that
entered the program first (those under phase I) will graduate towards more quantitative indicators
demonstrating adoption of proposed technology, increase in productivity, proper functioning of the cost
recovery scheme, community participation, effective integration of technical services in the community, and
satisfaction with the institutional arrangements proposed for operating and monitoring the program.
C: Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project activities are clustered in the following project components:
Component 1: Productive Investments (US$ 46.0 million)
The project will finance demand-driven investment sub-projects for agricultural production, natural
resources management, processing activities, and minor productive infrastructure through a matching-grant
system. Up-front farmers' contribution will be in kind or/and in cash and will not be less than 30 percent of
project cost as defined in the new Operation Manual. As for the first phase, a cost recovery mechanism will
be developed at the beneficiaries' level to induce community-level capitalization and ensure sustainability of
the activities. Financing of the sub-projects would include the following: farming equipment and tools;
inputs for cultivation or livestock; animals; construction material; small works and installations; processing
machinery; small irrigation and drainage works and equipment; plantations and nurseries; technical
assistance and specialized training; and storage facilities for inputs and products.
The project will cover various types of subproject in the following main areas: improvements in existing
farming systems for basic grains (milpa), home garden production (traspatio), and rearing of small animals
(birds, sheep, goats and, pigs); dissemination of sustainable grain production technologies that would
improve soil and moisture conditions, mostly through minimum tillage methods, green manure, and live
barriers; diversification of production systems and micro-enterprise development in the area of
non-traditional crops (vanilla, macadamia, litchi, ginger, chilis, flowers, etc..); improvement of coffee
productivity and the expansion of organic production; promotion of technologies and investments that
would foster intensification of livestock activities, such as dual-purpose cattle raising (dairy and meat)
which offers the main opportunities in the lower zones; natural resources management and agroforestry,
establishment of seed and plant nurseries and recuperation and conservation of soil; small enterprise
development, transformation and conmmercialization of products and inputs.
-9-



Capitalization Funds
While the use of matching grants to finance rural productive investments could be considered as a second
best approach in facilitating access to financing, it was chosen due to the low performance of rural
financial markets in Mexico, which are particularly deficient or non-existent in rural poverty zones.
International experience has shown that directed credit has low repayment rates and high administrative
costs. The approach chosen in this program would not face comparable administrative costs since fiscal
recuperation of the funds is not envisaged. Rather, in addition to up-front beneficiary contribution to the
cost of the subprojects (30 percent), a cost recovery mechanism would be promoted at the community level
for the remaining 70 percent and would build on internal management practices, peer pressure and local
control systems for the establishment of capitalization funds at the community/group level. These funds
will recognize the individual beneficiary ownership of the amount recovered and will seek to establish
transparent, albeit simple, mechanisms for fimds amnangement. A specific technical assistance effort would
be implemented so as to provide the required social intermediation support through NGOs or private
consultants, which, in many instances, are already involved in the management of informal micro-financing
schemes in the regions. Linkages with established financial intermediaries will be sought early in the
process to ensure the safe handling of funds and transparency and accountability in funds management.
Funds would be invested or spent at the community level according to internal priorities and mechanisms as
defined by the community/group. The recovered amounts would thus remain as financial capital circulating
in the community, or would take the form of physical capital depending on the investment decision made by
the community/group. That would constitute the basis for the development of self-sustained savings and
loan schemes and would progressively evolve towards or link with existing financial intermediation systems
(such as existing savings and loan institutions, credit unions and commercial banks).
Component 2: Community Development (lLJS$ 6.0 million)
This component mostly covers activities to be implemented by the communities and whose financing would
not need to be recovered. Main activities include preparation and implementation of simple plans of
community-based natural resources management using participatory rural assessment methods, small
projects of indirect benefits related to comnunity activities, studies for the preparation of community
development plans and works, workshops and training for capacity building, participatory approaches,
management of savings schemes, etc.
Component 3: Technical Support (US$ 17.0 million)
This component of the project covers the provision of extension services, technical support and training of
farmers and producers organizations required for the implementation of sub-projects, the establishment of
demonstration plots, and the organization of workshops and training. During phase I, these services were
mainly provided under the national extension system and other technical staff. However, results from
preliminary experience under the program, harve demonstrated much better results when technical support is
provided through the services of a dedicated private firm. In phase II, the contracting of professional
private support services would be promoted with the responsibility of i) selecting, coordinating and training
the extension agents in the field; and ii) provide technical support to the CRDSs for the appraisal and
approval process of subprojects. By the same token, the cost-recovery mechanism and the management of
the conmmunity funds will need specialized professional support with experience in micro-finance issues.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration. (US$ 4.0 million)
Activities under this component would focus on the support to project management and administration and
- 10-



include (i) the establishment and operations of the technical support teams for each CRDS; (ii) capacity
building and training for the CRDS and Coffee Councils; and (iii) institutional strengthening at the central
and state level for project management, monitoring and evaluation, and auditing.
Through the support provided to the CRDSs and Coffee Councils, the project seeks to strengthen the
decentralization process and foster the constitution of sustainable decision-making and coordination bodies
that would permit better integration of programs at the regional level and better participation and ownership
by the beneficiaries. At the central level SAGAR would be strengthened to implement the monitoring and
evaluation system, carry out project administration, coordinate project preparation and the expansion of the
program to new regions.
Productive investments             AD                  46.00       63.0     34.50       62.7
Community development               SY                  6.00        8.2       4.50       8.2
Technical support                  AD                  17.00       23.3      13.00      23.6
Institutional strengthening and project   BI            4.00        5.5       3.00       5.5
administration
Total Project Costs                    73.00      100.0     55.00      100.0
Front-end fee                                 0.0                  0.0
Total Financing Required                    73.00      100.0      55.00     100.0
*Front-end fee of 1% is already covered under the total financing cost.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project does not pursue key policy and institutional reforms, rather it focuses on strengthening the
on-going capacity building effort in support of the decentralization process and progressive delegation of
decision-making responsibility at the local level, for more effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
Economic benefits will be generated through:
a) increased agricultural production and diversification that will improve food security and farmn household
income. The set of economic and financial data based on farm models, provided by the studies of the new
regions, indicates that small farmers in these areas have a productive and economic potential and are
expected to gain significantly from project activities. Indirect benefits are expected to be significant through
the demonstration effect of technology transfer and improved natural resource management. The promotion
of cost recovery at the community level would strengthen the local financing capacity; and
b) raised value of production through enhancement of processing and marketing activities, better
organization of production, improved access to local markets, and rural employment opportunities. The
project is expected to promote private sector activities in the provision of goods and support services, as
well as small business and enterprises, generally locally based and representing important employment
opportunities.
- 11 -



Social benefits will include:
a) improved participation and access of project beneficiaries, specifically indigenous people and women, to
the decision-making process and investment opportunities, hence facilitating ownership of project activities
at the local level; and
b) increased organization capacity of the communities involved and producers groups, contributing to the
formation of social capital and sustainability of the economic benefits.
Environmental benefits: The project would promote technology that will maintain the natural resource base
and avoid environmental degradation in these fragile zones, particularly with respect to deforestation, loss
of soil fertility and erosion.
Incidence: The distribution of project funds ensures that about 70 percent of project resources flows
directly to the target population to support productive investments and community development. An
additional 20 percent would finance agricultural services and technical support to farmers and producer
groups. The remaining 10 percent is devoted to institutional strengthening and adrninistration.
Tar2etinp
The project will operate in the areas of: Norte and Sierra (Chiapas); Sierra Norte (Puebla); Altiplano and
Paine (San Luis Potosi); Alto Balsas (Guerrero); Meseta Purepecha and Tierra Caliente (Michoacan); and
Zongolica (Veracruz). The nine regions have a population of some 2.2 million inhabitants, 65 percent of
which is the target population of the project. The majority of the project beneficiaries are indigenous
people. The project would promote the participation of women, as they play a key role in agriculture and in
family nutrition.
Detailed targeting mechanisms and criteria are being designed in an updated Operational Manual to
enhance effective targeting and positive incidence of project activities, including a monitoring and
evaluation system. They include:
a) geographic targeting has been carried out using a combination of the CONAPO/INEGI data on
marginality and poverty indexes, the SAGAR definition of agro-ecological and production systems, and the
criteria used under the institutional coordination effort of the main ministries (SEDESOL, SEMARNAP,
SCT, SRA and SAGAR) working in priority poverty areas;
b) eligibility criteria for beneficiaries are defined on the basis of verifiable criteria of available assets (land,
livestock), level of self-consumption, access to services, preference to groups, etc.; and
c) eligibilitv criteria for sub-proiects include the definition of the nature of the interventions, sustainability
criteria based on economic, technical and environmental grounds, participation requirements, individual
limits of support per sub-project, co-financing requirements, and a list of activities excluded.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Implementation of the phase II will extend over an approximate period of 5 years,
as each one of the phases supporting the national program.
Executing Agencies: Ministry for Agricujlture, Livestock and Rural Development (SAGAR) and
participating state authorities of Puebla, Guerrero, Veracruz, San Luis Potosi, Michoacan, Chiapas.
- 12 -



Proiect Administration: Implementation of the project would take place under the Alianza para el Campo
framework. In line with its decentralized strategy, the program would be implemented under a formal
global agreement (Convenio) signed between SAGAR and each state participating in the program. Every
program under the Alianza includes a document (Anexo Tecnico) describing the proposed activities and the
annual budget with the financial commitment of the federal and state governments for the marginal areas
program. At present, activities to be implemented in the different regions are covered by two Anexos
Tecnicos, one for the Marginal Areas program and one for the Coffee program. A strategy for more closely
integrating the activities of the two programs is now under implementation (see Annex 2). An Operations
Manual describing implementation arrangements for the whole program was prepared during the first phase
and has been updated to meet the requirements of the second phase. It will cover operational rules and
criteria for all states participating in the program. The innovative feature of the Alianza program is its cost
sharing arrangements between the federal level, the states and the producers. A Trust Fund (Fideicomiso)
has been established in each state to concentrate funds from the federal and state levels, and to manage
disbursements for the various sub-programs of the Alianza. The state Rural Development Commission
(CDR) is responsible for the overall coordination, planning and prioritization of resource allocation by
sub-programs. CDRs comprise state representatives from the various institutions involved in rural
development, the SAGAR delegate, and a project spokesman.
At the regional and local level, the aim has been to develop implementation arrangements that strengthen
ownership and accountability at the community level and stimulate beneficiaries and civil society
participation and involvement. Implementation mechanisms would also try to ensure access, relevance, and
efficiency in the provision of services. At the level of each of the regions covered by the project, a Regional
Sustainable Development Council (CRDS) will be established representing the members of communities
and "ejidos", producer organizations, SAGAR, the State Government, relevant public institutions (INI,
SEDESOL, FONAES, SEMARNAP), with the option of including NGOs recognized by producers and
institutions. Its president would be a representative of the State. The CRDS would coordinate either with
the correspondent Coffee Councils at regional level, where they exist, or with representatives of coffee
producers. The CRDS would have responsibility for the promotion, analysis, and selection of sub-projects
submitted by producers groups and communities. The CRDS would be assisted by a small technical unit to
carry out the technical, economic, and social evaluation of the proposals, and make recommendations.
Upon approval by the CRDS, the sub-project proposals would be forwarded to the Fideicomiso for
payment to the provider of goods and services associated with the sub-projects. The project also promotes
the preparation of development action plans for the whole community, instead of individual sub-projects.
This approach has permitted to build development activities on a more cohesive and consistent strategy at
the local level. The CRDSs will also promote inter-institutional coordination, foster synergy and
complementarity of the programs already operating in the region.
Proiect coordination: Project coordination would be carried out: (i) at the federal level by SAGAR's
Sub-secretariat for Rural Development. It would be responsible for project oversight, overall policy
guidance, the preparation of new phases, and expansion of the national program; (ii) at the state level by
the CDR and state Coffee Councils, and (iii) at the regional level by CRDSs and regional Coffee Councils
(where applicable).
Accounting, financial reportine and auditine arrangements: The Fideicomiso would carry out financial
accounting and maintain separate project accounts and records for project related expenditures in
accordance with sound and accepted accounting practices. Financial reporting would be carried out by the
SAGAR Delegation and state Coffee Councils in each state, including preparation of the Statement of
Expenditures (SOE). Financial reports would be consolidated at the central level by SAGAR for
transmission by NAFIN and review by the Bank. The financial management, accounting system, and
- 13-



internal controls are already in place as part of the Alianza program and are being implemented under
phase I. They have been operating satisfactorily and their use would be continued under phase II. SAGAR
has begun to take steps to adapt its financial management system in line with the Bank's new Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI). A transition phase, tentatively expected to extend over the first
year after Board, would be allowed for training, software development, and acquaintance with the new
project management reports (PMRs). Under LACI, use of traditional disbursement procedures would be
replaced by a system whereby disbursements (including the amount of the Special Account) would be
granted to SAGAR on the basis of a set of agreed-upon quarterly reports. A new computerized monitoring
and reporting system is being finalized (it will also be applied to phase I regions) and will provide for a
common framework at the central, state, arkd regional level, that will permit more effective and harnonized
information flow and monitoring of physical! and financial performance, including preparation of the SOEs.
The system will be adapted so as to be LACI compliant. Accounts would be audited annually according to
generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently applied by independent and qualified
auditors. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each calendar year
(Government of Mexico fiscal year).
Procurement: Most of the procurement (goods, works and services) will be carried out as part of the
approved sub-projects. The total cost of an individual project would not exceed US$50,000 and would be
implemented with direct participation and contribution of the beneficiaries. Given the remote and scattered
location of many rural communities ancd in order to encourage community participation in project
execution, local shopping and direct contracting procedures would be applicable. Consultant services
would be procured according to "Guidelines on the Use of Consultants" (January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999). Procurement would be carried out by the CRDSs, the Coffee Councils, the State
authorities, and by the beneficiaries accordingly, and payments made by the State Fideicomiso. Details on
the procurement procedures and arrangements for the project are provided in Annex 6.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Monitoring:
The CRDS would have primary responsibility for monitoring sub-projects implementation. The technical
unit of the CRDS would implement the monitoring and reporting system described above, gathering
information at the local level on project implementation combining both physical and financial information
and subritting reports to the SAGAR Delegation in each state, who would in turn consolidate the
information and provide periodic monitoring reports to the federal level. M&E would be guided by the
logical framework matrix (see Annex I) and permnit to follow up on the output and impact indicators agreed
upon.
Evaluation:
Evaluation of project activities, including project performance, level of participation, and efficiency of the
administrative system, would be carried out once a year for each region through independent consultants.
The evaluation process would be based on the trigger indicators. It would build on specific surveys and
self-assessments.
Reporting and expansion to new phases:
At the federal level, SAGAR will centralize and consolidate monitoring and evaluation information for the
whole program. It will submit progress reports to the Bank twice a year. The monitoring & evaluation
system will be key in providing lessons of experience and helping in the design of new phases. In particular,
the annual evaluation report for every region would provide the information needed to carry out the
- 14-



appraisal process of each subsequent phase and assess the pace at which the program can be expanded. An
Implementation Completion Report will be prepared at least six months prior to the final disbursement of
the loan; GOM will prepare its own evaluation of the project including a plan for its continued
implementation.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Rationale for the APL instrument. In the absence of the Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument, the
Bank would have had to chose between: (i) limiting its initial support to the first six areas initially studied
and pursue expansion through the preparation of repeater projects in additional areas, or (ii) providing for a
general rural investment fund type of approach of a larger scope and dimensioned to possibly cover a larger
undefined number of areas. The former alternative would have prevented a longer term perspective on key
development issues and limited the leverage to suppcrt program expansion, under the same framework, in a
flexible and progressive way. The latter would have implied a larger financial commitment and would have
faced higher risks and uncertainties about future program development and rigidities in the capacity to
permanently learn and adjust. Under the APL, preparation and implementation of the first phase has
permitted the Government to establish the basis for the national development program. Its expansion to a
second phase is based on the experience learned from the first one.
Rationale for second phase expansion. Four new regions were initially tentatively considered for a second
phase. However, during implementation of the first phase, considerable momentum and interest was raised
around the program both at the central and local level. A much more important demand than initially
expected was expressed by various states and region to participate in the program. Similarly, a much larger
budget allocation was authorized to SAGAR by the Ministry of Finance for implementation and expansion
of the program. It was acknowledged that the program introduces important new elements of changes in the
way to implement rural development programs by focusing on regional integrated approaches, relying on
community participation and decentralized decision-making, and promoting mechanisms of
self-sustainability. Rather than limit the scope of the second phase to a more restricted number of four
regions, it is proposed to build on the existing momentum and support the potential offered by the Marginal
Areas program to address rural poverty issues in a more effective and sustainable way. The criteria initially
defimed to select new areas, including the required availability of all preparatory studies and consultation,
has been maintained. Accordingly, of the 1 8 new areas studied and considered for expansion, nine would be
subject to Bank's support in the second phase.
-15-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Small scale municipal infrastructure,   Decentralization and Rural   S             S
institutional strengthening       development (DRD I) -
(Completed)
Productive investment, institutional    Rainfed Areas (Completed)    S             S
strengthening
Development of rural financial services, Rural Finance TA (Cancelled)  U           S
policy content
Building local management capacity for Community Forestry            S             S
forest management, institutional  (On-going)
strengthening
Small scale municipal infrastructure,   Second Decentralization and  U             S
institutional strengthening       Regional development (DRD 11)
- (On-going)
Productive investments, community    Rural Development in Marginal   S             S
development, technical assistance  Areas APL I (On-going)
Irrigation, productive investments,  Agricultural Productivity       S             S
agricultural services              (O.n-going)
GEF - Biodiversity Conservation and   Meso-american Corridor -
Management                         (Planned)
Other development agencies
IDB - direct support to rural      Social Investment and
communities and rural microenterprises Micro-enterprise
in Chiapas and Oaxaca
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Other Government pro2rams:
SEDESOL, through INI, intervenes in the project area with conmmunity workers and development funds for
activities focused on cultural and socio-economic development of indigenous people. It also promotes
through FONAES equity participation and risk capital for small agriculture enterprises. SEMARNAP
participates in natural resources management and soil conservation activities through regional development
programs.
SAGAR, SEDESOL, SEMARNAP, SRA and SCT, have signed in November 1998 a framework
agreement of collaboration on regional development activities that will foster better articulation and
complementarity of various existing programs. The base of collaboration has been expanded to the
Ministries of Health, Education and Commerce in May 1999. In the agreement, these Ministries have
committed to join efforts in promoting sustainable development in priority regions of the country, with high
- 16-



levels of poverty and social exclusion, limited availability of physical and social infrastructure, and
typically high reliance on natural resources for subsistence purposes. Most of the regions considered under
the Marginal Areas program fall in the definition of the priority regions. The institutional arrangement
promoted under the program and particularly the establishment of CRDSs is now offering new
opportunities for better integration with other Government programs (sustainable agriculture, prevention of
forest fires, municipal infrastructure, Meso-american biological corridor, etc.).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed second phase builds on two sets of experiences: (i) the experience of decentralized, rural
development investment programs, and (ii) the lessons learned from phase I, that provided the ground for
the proposed project.
Experience from Rural Investment Proprams
Rural investment programs, in general, indicate that flexibility and grass-root demand-driven approaches
are key in building ownership, defining local priorities, and setting the ground for better implementation
and sustainability. In Mexico, positive examples can be drawn from the first and second Decentralization
and Rural Development projects (DRD I and II) as well as the Rainfed Areas Development project, which
already operated under the Alianza Framework. The Bank's record of financing this type of programs is on
the whole satisfactory, and there is consensus on continuing this line of financial assistance. Over time,
however, some shortcomings have emerged:
a) Past municipality-based demand-driven approaches have been globally successful in the promotion of
rural infrastructure and social investments. However, because investment decision by municipalities tend to
favor collective investments, little has been achieved in triggering production-oriented activities and tapping
the productive potential of existing resources;
b) notwithstanding their intrinsic merits, micro-investments tend to form a disparate collection of
interventions, and may not reach the critical development mass required to attract the private sector,
generate buyers competition, facilitate access to markets, and foster the establishment of support services;
c) it is important that access to resources for productive investments be accompanied by the required
support for technology validation and community organization; and
d) poor timing and lengthy administrative processes at times jeopardize the implementation of this type of
programs particularly in agriculture where natural cycles impose rigid time constraints.
Experience from the Implementation of Phase I
Phase I had addressed the above issues by proposing to: (i) focus on productive investments in areas with
productive potential; (ii) promote a regional approach as a way to concentrate interventions and foster a
more integrated level of development, driven by market opportunities; (iii) providing a broad range of
technical assistance and training to producers and communities; and (iv) promoting decentralized and agile
mechanisms for sub-projects approval and disbursement.
The experience from phase I already points to a number of elements in project design and implementation
that are worth pursuing so as to improve the development impact of the program (also see section B.4. and
Addendum 1 to Annex I): i). decentralization and devolution of decision making requires strong political
commitment to overcome possible resistance from vested interests and avoid delays in project
implementation; ii) promotion of productive activities needs to be driven by the access and availability of a
market demand; iii) it is important to promote farmers' organizations around economic incentives like
- 17-



improving crop marketing and input purchases; iv) fostering an effective strategy for cost recovery possibly
leading to the development of self-sustaining micro-finance schemes often requires an important effort of
"social intermediation" so that groups and communities can be an integral part in the definition of the
mechanisms and rules leading to the development of savings and loan schemes; and v) the performance of
the technical assistance can be enhanced by increasingly relying on the provision of professional and
dedicated private services.
Coordination with the Coffee Program
Given the importance of coffee production in Mexico and its specific institutional and organizational
context, the Government has been implementing a separate Coffee Support Program under the Alianza
framework. In the first phase, the Rural Development in Marginal Areas project did not contemplate
financing for the coffee activities covered by the Coffee Program in the selected regions. However, many of
the marginal areas considered under the program (in both phase I and II), grow coffee as one of the main
crops and its distribution is particularly important in the poorest areas. SAGAR's medium term strategy
is to progressively integrate the activities of the two programs so that producers can have access to a
broader menu of options, allowing for more flexibility and diversification opportunities. Project financing
for the second phase would support such strategy of focusing on priority agricultural systems as a whole,
and therefore also cover coffee development activities under the Coffee Program in the project regions.
Only minor adjustments to the present administrative arrangements will be required during a transitional
phase during which the strategy basically proposes that the two programs harmonize approaches and
procedures, while pursuing implementation through existing structures (see Annex 2 for more details).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Two main features reflect Government's colmmitment and ownership:
a) the project is an integral part of the nationwide Government initiative Alianza para el Campo launched
in mid 1996, with strong political support and the provision of a large increase in budget allocation for
SAGAR. Its decentralized strategy ensures a stronger involvement and ownership at the state level; and
b) the remarkable expansion of the program scope, after piloting the approach during the first phase,
derives from increased demand from the communities and the states, including increased financial
commitment and participation into project preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
a) The Bank has built considerable experiernce in Mexico and worldwide on policy dialogue and operations
dealing with poverty alleviation issues and rural investment funds. The Bank can facilitate access to
information and advisory capacity on design issues and lessons learned with comparable projects and
subsequent incorporation of the lessons of these experiences;
b) the financial instrument of the Adaptable Program Loan is providing greater flexibility in adapting
project design and financing to client needs as they evolve; and
c) Bank's participation provides for better continuity of the long term national progranm.
- 18-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$75.1 million; ERR = 25.2 %
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Because of the demand-driven nature of the project, it will not be possible to know a priori which
micro-projects will be actually financed, nor in which proportion. Thus the approach chosen for the
financial and economic analysis is to elaborate prototype investments and farn budgets typical of farning
situations in the various regions and agroecological zones (upper, medium and lower zones). Each activity
and farm model compare with and without situations and illustrate the possible changes induced by the
project. The activity budgets take into account recurrent costs and labor increments.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ 113 million; FRR - 32.6 %
The financial analysis would examine most of the individual financial NPVs for the farm models tested
indicating: (i) their potential attractiveness to smallholders; (ii) the degree of profitability; and (iii) the
marginal return to labor assuming a labor wage rate of N$ 20/day.
Although each sub-project submitted would need to be subject to a financial analysis it is not realistic to
expect a sophisticated analysis for each of them. Rather, on the basis of the prototype models developed,
operational guidance would be provided to the selection of the projects that will receive support under the
program. Screening criteria will thus designed to ensure that sub-projects financed under the project have
positive expected net present values.
Fiscal Impact:
The project operates under the nation-wide Alianza para el Campo Program whose budget for 1999 is of
about US$250 million equivalent at the federal level. The Alianza represents less than 20 percent of
SAGAR's budget. Within that framework, the budget for the nine new areas of phase II under the Rural
Development in Marginal Areas program in 1999 is of about US$4.6 million of federal money. The coffee
program budget in those same regions is of about US$2.5 million federal. Recurrent expenditures represent
only about 3 percent of project costs, and more than 75 percent are direct subproject-related investments.
While proportions may vary from state to state, the cost sharing arrangement for this program is on
average of: 50 percent at the federal level, 25 percent at the state level, and 25 percent from the producers,
which leads to a total second phase cost of about US$14 million in 1999. All Bank's financed programs in
Mexico operate within the existing national budget allocated to sectoral agencies (SAGAR in this case) and
the states, in line with the tight fiscal policy being pursued by the Government. Bank's financing will not
generate additional fiscal requirement. Incremental tax revenues accrued to the Federal Government as a
result of project activities would be negligible as sales of good and services in the agricultural sector are
exempt from IVA. Income tax revenues from incremental profitability of on-farm production would also be
negligible given the low level of income of the target population. Therefore, the fiscal impact of the project
would be small but negative.
Similarly, at the states level, the bulk of their budget derives from revenue sharing mechanisms of taxation
income by the federal level. Therefore, state's contribution to the program also falls within the global
targets of fiscal deficit. The issue of financial sustainability of the project would depend on internal criteria
- 19 -



for resources allocation based on local priorities and political willingness to support interventions for
productive investments in rural poverty areas.
3. Technical:
The project has been subject to thorough studies covering all aspects related to the technical, financial,
social and environmental matters. In addition, a new Operation Manual for 1999 has been prepared on the
basis of the experience and results from phase I. It covers the procedures and arrangements to be followed
during project implementation. The project's technical design was also assessed through field visits during
project preparation.
One of the main challenges of the project would be to promote technical improvements adapted to local
conditions and reflecting existing constraints while respecting traditional and cultural habits. The strategy
for the provision of technical assistance is to foster the provision of private services and to improve
accountability and administrative control of the service providers by the beneficiaries and the communities.
Moreover, the technical units assisting the CRDSs will play a key role in reviewing, screening, and
selecting project proposals so as to ensure the financial and environmental sustainability of technical
packages.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
SAGAR has a good administrative capacity at the federal level. At the State level SAGAR is represented
by delegations who coordinate activities with the State Government's administration for agriculture and
rural development. Institutional capacity is uneven from state to state as well as the level of collaboration
between state authorities and SAGAR delegates. However, in view of the decentralization trend in Mexico,
capacity at the states level is being progressively strengthened as states will inevitably become the main
actors in the definition of priorities and program execution. The project builds on existing institutional
arrangements and will contribute to a sustained effort of institutional strengthening. All matters related to
procurement, disbursement and audits are halidled in Mexico by the Financial Intermediary (the Borrower -
NAFIN) which has a long experience in the aidministration of Bank's projects.
b. Project management:
Most of the management responsibility at the local level will rely on the CRDSs assisted by a technical unit
that would serve as their secretariat. CRDSs would foster inter-institutional coordination, and focus more
sharply on the integration of activities at the regional level. Some of these CDRSs derive from existing
coordination structures at the regional level which have already proven their legitimacy and are well
established and recognized. Others will be created on the basis of existing community representation
mechanisms but may initially present weak. management and technical capacity, and will need to be
strengthened.
- 20 -



5. Social:
During project preparation, comprehensive socio-economic studies were carried out. As indigenous people
make up a significant percentage of the target population, the studies and workshops carried out have
addressed indigenous issues in an integrated way as part of the various topics being studied
(socio-economic, production systems such as milpa and transpatio, gender, land tenure, natural resources
management, etc..). These comprehensive assessments and the participatory approach followed during
project design, take into account the elements required for the empowerment of the indigenous people in a
fashion that is consistent with their cultural preferences. Moreover, as the project is designed in a
demand-driven way, participation is entirely voluntary and non-participants will not be affected by project
activities. In particular the project would support and improve production systems that are well suited to
the need and environment of the indigenous people and ensure their involvement in the identification and
implementation of project activities in the same way that it has emphasized gender considerations and
participation in the project. The project would initiate a learning process in the change of relationship
between the communities and state and federal agencies. There are already great expectations at the
community level that participation would not confine itself to project preparation but would extend to
implementation and monitoring. The project would also ensure that extension workers at the community
level are accepted by the groups they serve and that they speak the local language, where applicable.
The project has considered land tenure systems and land management by indigenous communities. There is
a long history of peasant organization and struggle against the large landowner and market intermediary
classes that dominated much of these areas for a long time. In recent times, upon the progress made by the
agrarian reform, especially since 1992, the situation has improved. Although land tenure conflicts may
persist in some locations, institutional resolution mechanisms are in place. The project will not affect land
tenure or induce changes in the rights of indigenous people over land. Also the project does not include any
resettlement nor infrastructure works. More recently civil society has tended to move from a purely land
and human rights defense objective to a more production-oriented focus. The project builds on the
knowledge established by the study on the Country Indigenous People Profile carried out by INI with
support from the Bank (www.oikos.unam.mx/perfiles).
The project meets the criteria of a social development plan of the indigenous people, preserving their social
organization systems in the framework of cultural diversity. The National Indigenous Institute (INI), which
has a permanent presence in these areas through their community workers, has closely participated in
project preparation and will continue to collaborate as part of the project institutional mechanism (in the
areas where it is present, INI is a permanent member of the CRDSs). See Annex 11 for more detailed
characterization of the indigenous population.
- 21 -



6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B
Overall, the project is environmentally beneficial or neutral. Separate environmental impact analysis have
been developed in every region by specialized private and public organizations, including INAGA,
GEOSFERA, Universidad Autonoma Metroprolitana, Colegio de Postgraduados, Colegio de la Frontera
Sur, in close collaboration with several state and federal agencies such as SEMARNAP, SEDESOL,
INEGI, INI and with international or national organizations such as WWF, FAO, CIMMYT, USAID.
They have shown that the project, throughL the development of sustainable farming activities such as
conservation tillage, IPM, crop diversification, improvement to migratory agriculture (slash and bum), and
marketing of organic products, will contribute to the control of soil erosion, and the improvement of the
quality of the land and water resources, while protecting the animal and vegetal biodiversity. The new
Operations Manual provides guidance for the environmental screening, selection and implementation of
these subprojects, as well as a list of activities that are not eligible, such as creation or rehabilitation of
roads, over-use of agro-chemical inputs, inappropriate crop processing methods. Therefore, the main issue
has to do with an efficient and effective implementation of integrated technological and economic activities
at farm and (micro) regional level. This issue will be addressed by strengthening the environmental
awareness and agro-ecological expertise of farmers men and women, extensionists and farmers
organizations, through training courses, field visits, and specialized technical assistance provided by private
services or public organizations oriented to creating local capacities and know-how.
T'he Rural Development in Marginal Areas project is consistent with the objectives of OP 4.09 Pest
Management, namely in "relying as much as possible on non-chemical measures to keep pest population
low [...] selecting and applying pesticides (when they have to be used) in a way that minimizes adverse
effects on beneficial organisms, humans, and the environment", and OP 4.06 Forestry " to reduce
deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forested areas, reduce poverty, and encourage
economic development". The project builds on diagnostic and socio-economic studies developed through a
participatory methodology during the preparation process, so as to involve indigenous people in the
selection and implementation of technical activities consistent with the social demand and traditional
practices of natural resource management.
- 22 -



7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Identification/Prepration -    mplementation       ;per-tion
Beneficiaries   COL               COL                   COL
Producer Organizations   COL               COL                   COL
NGOs       COL              CONS/COL               CONS
Local government     CONS             CONS                  CONS
State government    COL              COL                    COL
Federal government    COL              COL                    COL
Academic/research    COL               CONS/COL              CONS
IS=Information Sharing; CONS=Consultation; COL=Collaboration;
There is good scope for strong and responsible farmer participation in the project. For this to materialize,
however, it is important that state governments understand well the need to cooperate with producers'
organizations and other civil society institutions. It is also essential that government officers be prepared to
transfer to farmers and their organizations the role of promoters and managers of rural development, and be
ready to consider producer organizations' leaders and their advisors as respected partners with whom to
decide priorities and program activities. Participatory methods that build on these on-going processes have
been promoted during preparation of the project. To ensure wide producer participation during
implementation, mechanisms are proposed through the CRDSs and Coffee Councils for a balanced
representation of government authorities, producers organizations and communities.
b. Other key stakeholders:
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability would be addressed at three levels:
a) Technical sustainability would focus on the appropriate management of natural resources. The project
would promote technologies capable of protecting the soil from degradation, particularly on the steep
mountains. It would discourage development that may damage the natural resource base;
b) institutional sustainability would be promoted: (i) at the federal and state level, by building on and
strengthening existing institutional arrangements under the Alianza para el Campo program and involving
state authorities; and (ii) at the local level, through a decentralized organizational set up that would
promote ownership of the process of appraisal and approval of investment proposals; and
c) financial sustainability would be pursued by promoting investments and activities that would generate
regular income streams over time, and which the farmers themselves would be capable of managing and
maintaining. Moreover, cost-recovery would be sought for commercial activities so as to stimulate the
constitution of savings funds at the community level.
Some uncertainty will remain with respect to political commitment and therefore budgetary allocation at the
- 23 -



end of the present administration beyond the year 2000. However, there is growing concern in the public
opinion about the necessity to undertake a more proactive and targeted approach towards the most
disadvantaged segments of the rural population. This makes it unlikely that major changes be introduced in
the main sectoral orientations and priorities, as they benefit from wide support at the state and local level.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
j---2300:00.- -skf i4000     || X) 00l   ;0 i   iRatindg0:  Risk  iiizati a n Measr -
From Outputs to Objective
(i) Small poor farmers may not be        N         Improved agricultural services would
interested in investing in productive              increase available technological options
activities and in adopting new                     and know-how. Matching-grants would
technologies if their income largely               ease financial constraints while
depends on off-farm activities and                 improving ownership and sustainability.
because of their risk-adverse behavior.            Screening of proposals would promote
viable sub-projects with retums to labor
above the marginal rural wage rate.
Off-farm activities would also be
promoted.
Availability of TA with good             M         The project would promote a strategy of
knowledge of participatory techniques,   .         service provision by the public and
and of sustainable management of                   private services which builds on
natural resources management may be                establishing links with various centers
limited.                                           of technical expertise; it would also
implement a training program for
extension agents and community
workers.
Access to market may be constrained by   M         The project would increase the
limited number of intermediaries and               bargaining power of local communities
limited possibilities for retaining added          by improving their organization
value at the local level.                          capacity, support for micro-enterprises
in transformation and marketing, better
market information, and by developing
private sector provision of services.
From Components to Outputs
Availability of budgetary resources      N         The Alianza program is expected to
provide adequate resources and to
receive good response at the state level.
CRDS will be able to operate with         S        Close monitoring and evaluation of the
autonomy and in a democratic way                   performance of the CRDS.
Communication and sensitization
Competent staff will be appointed to     M         The project will focus on capacity
coordinate project activities and to               building and establish evaluation
support CRDS                                       mechanisms to ensure that competent
staff is in place
- 24 -



Political factors                          S         Targeting mechanisms and well defined
operational procedures in addition to
close involvement of the beneficiaries in
project implementation should limit
political interference. Local authorities
will be informed and consulted so that
they endorse project strategy
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Decentralization of project management at the regional level through CRDSs could be controversial in view
of possible differing approaches developed by the different states on how to deal with communities and
municipal development. The fact that a representative of the state government be the president of CRDS
addresses Government concern with respect to oversight on the use of official resources. On the other hand
the CRDS will have to prove that they can operate in a balanced and democratic way, and that producers
representatives will be able to influence decision-making.
While project design has incorporated indigenous issues in a way that is consistent with cultural and
socio-economic preferences at the local level, implementation of project activities could be subject to
controversial interpretations on how to best deal with indigenous people development. Also, this second
phase operation will incorporate new regions in the state of Chiapas (although conflict zones have not been
incorporated at this stage) which presents a challenging and complex situation, but whose level of poverty
and marginality requires special attention. Particular care has been taken during project preparation to
ensure that the most relevant issues related to indigenous people participation and operational and
institutional arrangements have been addressed. The participatory and demand-driven approach, the
development of technological packages adapted to traditional farming systems, the incorporation of the
language criteria in the selection of extension agents and the close collaboration with 1NI, are all elements
that should help to adequately address indigenous issues.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Approval of the Operational Manual
*   Appropriate resources and mechanisms are in place to allow compliance with accounting and auditing
obligations
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C11. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
- 25 -



project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Cl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Adolfo Brizzi                     John Redwood                       Olivier Lafourcade
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
-26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL II
- -     -      ,-,---,...-,.-                             g
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve the well-being of the
rural population and expand
the opportunities for
integrating small-holder
marginal producers into the
growth process.
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Improve the well-being and   Increase the productivity by   Implementation Completion   General economic stability in
the income of smallholders in about 40% to 50% and    Reports of each phase of the  the country and political
targeted marginal areas    increase of income by about   Program.                stability in the region.
through sustainable increase  30% to 40% for participating
in productivity and food  producers.
security.
Positive impact on         Annual evaluation reports    Price stability (10% in real
employment opportunities in  from each phase of the   terms).
the targeted areas.        Program
Successful integration of                            No natural disasters, drought
sustainable natural resources                         or floods.
management practices in
community development plans                           There are economic
permitting a positive impact                          opportunities for the creation
on land coverage, forest                              of small enterprises.
resources, soil conservation,
and better use of pesticides.
Sustained political and
budgetary commitment to
address social sector issues
The regions benefit from
infrastructure and the
provision of social services
from other development
programs and institutions in a
complementary way.
- 27 -



Project Development        Outcome 1 Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Increase smallholders      Producers who adopt the new  Bi-annual monitoring reports. The other phases of the
productivity in a sustainable  technology experience an                          program are prepared and
way and ensure food security  increase of yields oif the milpa Annual Evaluation reports.   implemented with success.
in 9 marginal areas in the  by 40% at the end of the
States of Chiapas, San Luis   project (EOP).         Mid-term evaluation.
Potosi, Puebla, Guerrero,
Veracruz, and Michoacan.
Producers that adopt new                              General economic stability in
technology improve yields of  Implementation Completion  the country and political
fruit, coffee and livestock by   Report.             stability in the region.
30% EOP.
Households that adopt                                 Price stability (10% in real
improved technology for                              terms).
traspatio production increase
their consumption of
vegetables and meat.
70% of the project are still                          No natural disasters, droughts
operating two years after the                         or floods.
financing of the investment.
At least 70% of the producers                         There are economic
supported by the project                             opportunities for the creation
improve their income by at                            of small enterprises.
least 30% EOP.
Small enterprises supported by                        Sustained political and
the project generate new                             budgetary commitment to
substantial employrnent in                           address social sector issues.
each region EOP.
Producers that adojpt the                             The region benefit from
improved natural resource                            infrastructure and the
management practices show                            provision of social services
improved soil fertility.                             from other development
programs and institution in a
complementary way.
- 28 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Producers have access to   1.1 Subprojects financed  Bi-annual monitoring reports. The majority of producers are
financial resources and   annually during project life:                       interested in investing in
support services to prepare,   Cliapas 130; Puebla 220, San Annual evaluation reports.   productive activities and
implement and maintain    Luis Potosi 160; Veracruz                           introducing technological
sustainable practices of  250; Guerrero 180;        Implementation Completion   changes in spite of risk-averse
productivity increase and  Michoacan 190.           Report.                   behavior.
natural resource management.
Minutes of the Regional
Council's meeting.
1.2 About 79,000 small                              There is sufficient supply of
holders benefit from the                            TA specialized in the
project by EOP of which:                            sustainable mnanagement of
9,400 in Chiapas;12,500 in                          natural resources.
Guerrero; 15,300 in Puebla;
11,200 in San Luis Potosi;
17,400 in Veracruz; and
13,200 in Michoacan.
1.3 70% of the                                      Access to markets and
groups/communities                                  adequate functioning of
benefiting of productive                            market services.
investments have developed a
cost recovery mechanisms
based on capitalization funds
and sound savings and loan
principles.
1.4 Adoption of methods of
soil conservation and water
management in 50% of the
subprojects for milpa
improvement in watershed
areas.
1.5 Introduction of organic
cropping and biological
control in the relevant
agricultural projects.
1.6 Natural resources
management messages are
integrated in the extension
programs of the community
agents.
1.7 Livestock practices are
improved through better
rotation and use of fodder.
- 29 -



2. Communities participation  2.1 Communities plans for
in the project is facilitated  natural resources
through better organization,   management, small
preparation of management   infrastructure and capacity
plans, small works, and     building approved and
capacity building.          implemented in eligible
communities.
3. An efficient system of   3.1 50% of the proclucers that
technology transfer is      receive TA on agricultural
operating and meeting       technology adopt proposed
farmer's needs.             changes.
3.2 The project has permitted
the establislunent of one
extension agent in every 4
communities assisted.
3.3 At least 60% of the
subprojects finance,d have
benefited from teclnical
assistance considered
satisfactory by the producers.
4. A coordination mnechanism  4.1 A Regional Cotncil for
is operating that ensures the   Sustainable Develoipment (or
participation of beneficiaries  equivalent) operates in every
and institutions.           region, with the balanced
participation of institutions,
producers' organizations,
community representatives,
and NGOs recognized by
beneficiaries and institutions.
CRDSs are efficiently assisted
by a small teclmical unit.
4.2 Once submitted, 75% of
the subprojects are subject to a
maximum approval time of:
CRDS:
- analysis: 30 days
- approval: 15 days
Fideicomiso:
- payment: 30 clays
- 30 -



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Productive investments    46.0                    1. Annual monitoring reports  1. Timely availability of
Financing sub-projects                               including:                 budgetary resources at the
prepared by beneficiary groups                       - financial monitoring,    federal and state level.
after approval by the CRDS.                           - disbursement report;
Beneficiaries contribute to                           - CRDS report on cost
project cost and implement                            recovery.
cost recovery system at the
community level.
2. Community development   6.0                       2. Annual monitoring reports 2. CRDSs will be able to
Community projects are                                                          operate with autonomy and in
prepared and financed to                                                        a democratic way.
implement natural resources
management plans, small
works and training.
3. Technical support       17.0                      3. Contracts, training, and    3. Competent staff will be
Contract technical assistance                        performance evaluation.    appointed to coordinate
staff and carry out training                                                    project activities and to
and workshop for farmers and                                                    support the CRDS.
producers organizations.
4. Institutional strengthening  4.0                  4. Management and financial 4. No political interference.
and project admninistration                           reports, procurement records,
Establish CRDSs and their                            contracts, audits, evaluation
technical units, train project                        reports.
management staff, carry out
monitoring, and contract
evaluation.
- 31 -



Addendum 1 to Annex I
Trigger Indicators Performance under Phase I
The Rural Development in Marginal Areas program has been designed as an "horizontal" APL i.e., a
new phase comprising a different batch of new areas would be joining the program about every year subject
to: (i) readiness of the new regions, based on commitment, consultation and budget availability, as
assessed by preparatory studies; and (ii) implementation of program activities according to key principles,
as assessed by trigger indicators performance of previous phases. The evaluation of the triggers should be
viewed as an intermediary evaluation of the key principles of program design, so as to assess whether they
are sound and replicable to other areas. Because of the early stage of the evaluation (about 18 months of
activity), triggers for moving from the first phase to the second have been defined as process-oriented
indicators, focusing on institutional arrangements, community participation and technical assistance.
Triggers would become more quantitative-oriented as the program unfolds.
The program is implemented in a decentralized way through a partnership between States and the
Federal Government. In line with the Government's federalization policy, the States have become the main
actors in the implementation of the "Alianza para el Campo" of which this program is part. The program
performance varies from one region to tlhe other according to prevailing circumstances and specific
arrangements that each State has adopted for its implementation. However, triggers assessment has helped
identify those elements of the program design which, controlling for the rest, are in need of corrective
actions. The evaluation of the trigger indicators has been carried out by independent consultant for the
1997/98 period and supervision missions. This approach of learning by doing, while allowing for
continuous adjustments and early identification of risks, is consistent with the APL approach and should
enhance the effectiveness of project implementation.
The tables below provide the status of the project's indicators and an assessment of their
performance, including recommendations and corrective actions agreed with the Government. In general, it
is felt that the key characteristics underpinning the strategy of the program are sound and warrant its
expansion. The program introduces important new elements of changes in the way to implement rural
development policies by focusing on regional integrated approaches, relying on community participation,
decentralized decision-making, and promoting mechanisms of self-sustainability.
- 32 -



Institutional arranLwements
Principle being tested: Experience indicates that the project's institutional arrangements reflect effective
decentralized decision-making, build local responsibility and accountability, and implement an effective
monitoring and evaluation system.
Regional Councils are                       Oaxaca SLP  Hidalgo Veracruz      * Maintenance of a balanced
established in each   R.C seCons ni.           88   10    15       NA         representation of Councils' members
region with a balanced  Instit. in the R.C. n.  23   13    18      NA         among institutions, farmers'
participation of      Produc. Org. in the RC n.    21   13    13   NA         organizations and community
institutions, producers  Regional Councils were established in each region or  representatives.
organizations,        micro-region (as in the case of Oaxaca). They have proven to  * Improvement and clarification of
community             be an important instrument to promote decentralization of    the Councils' internal operating
representatives and   decision-making, participation of producers' organizations,   procedures.
NGOs recognized by    local ownership and institutional coordination. They have
beneficiaries and     become an important and balanced forum of discussion over
institutions.         local priorities and an important actor in the sub-project
approval process.
Admniistrative        While important variations exist from State to State, in  * Elimination of unnecessary levels of
arrangements pennit   general Regional Councils have been evaluating and      bureaucracy.
effective and timely    approving sub-project proposals with due diligence. Delays   * Inclusion of a program
approval and          persisted in the process of funds release by the "Fideicomiso"  representative (vocalia) at the level of
implementation of     at the State level mostly due to bureaucratic requirements or  the State Commission (CDR) for more
sub-projects          lack of timely availability of funds.                   effective representation of the
program's interests at the State level.
* Simplification of the Operational
Manual with respect to sub-projects'
preparation and approval procedures.
The monitoring and    The project has implemented a manual monitoring system for Implementation of the new system to
evaluation system     sub-projects implementation, budgeting, statement of    all regions.
permits to follow-up    expenditures and disbursement processing. While for the
project implementation  most part the system has provided sufficient data flow,
and assess achievement information was not harmonized and submission has not
of project objectives    always been on a regular basis. In line with the requirements
that an expanding program would need a new computerized
system has been developed and is being tested. The system
has three modules: sub-projects; budgeting; disbursement, and
will operate at the regional, state and federal levels. The
system will allow for real time information exchange on
sub-project implementation from project identification to
project completion. It will permit to harmonize approaches,
standardize follow-up of program implementation, and
facilitate data consolidation and analysis at the central level.
The system will also allow for the automation of the
budgeting process and will greatly facilitate the processing of
SOEs based on eligible expenses incurred in the previous
months, and eventually LACI-based forms.
In the case of Veracruz, the Regional Council was combined with the Social Assistance Council (CAS) previously existing in the region,
complemnented by "community development committees" in all conununities and a program representative ("vocalia") at the State level.
Figures related to the CRs are not comparable with other regions. About 100 community development committees were established
- 33 -



Community Participation
Principle being tested: Experience indicates that the project facilitates community organization and
development in a sustainable way, fostering productive and social project
,,~~~~~~~~~~I . N .-
Communities participate to                              Oaxaca SLP Hidalgo Veracruz   Maintenance of a strong focus
project activities and develop                                                         on the promotion of
internal mechanisms for the    Participating Commnunities n. 378    250   254    89    participatory community
submission and                 Community Assemblies n.   574    940  1059   1739       development plans.
implementation of subprojt   Comm. Diagn./Dev. Plans n.  145    174   296    100
implementatlon of subproject    No. of Beneficiaries   24095  20670 25650   6407             .  .
proposals                      Communitv Promoters n.    15     -     24       71      Inclusionithenewoperationa
The project has raised considerable expectation and interest in manual of the possibility for the
the communities. A number of communities have prepared    communities to become more
diagnostics and development plans that have proven        actively involved in the
instrumental in presenting a shared strategic base on which to procurement of goods required
build development activities along agreed priorities, ensuring for the implementation of
consistency of sub-.project proposals. Also the appointment by sub-projects.
the communities of their own "promoter" has considerably
facilitated participation in the project and linkages with the
technical assistance.
Capitalization funds are     The revolving fundLs promoted under the project as part of a   Implementation of the new
established at the community  cost recovery approach have slowly started to operate but  approach in all project regions.
level so as to introduce     suffered from the lack of sufficient sensitization and adequate Local operators will initially
elements of financial        technical assistance at the community level. A new approach  perform a function of social
sustainability               is now being implernented by sub-contracting with         intermediation to help
experienced local private operators and NGOs the promotion  communities set-up and operate
of self-sustained savings and loan schemes or capitalization   capitalization funds. This would
funds at the local level. These mechanisms represent an   progressively evolve towards
important element for building social capital and financial    financial intermediation
sustainability at theS local level.                       schemes.
Beneficiaries prepare and                            Oaxaca SLP Hidalgo Veracruz
submit subproject proposals in              2                                          Regional Councils will agree on
significant nunmber          Requests approved  n.      990  823   1363    338         a strategy of community
Program expenditures US$Mi. 2.1  2.0    2.2    1.1        selection and progressive
regional expansion so as to
Requests for support were presented in large numbers, in  maintain strategic focus,
some cases exceeding the project financial capacity to    development impact, and avoid
respond. While sorne Regional Councils have sought        excessive dispersion of
concentration of resources to ensure enhanced impact in a  activities
more limited number of communities through more integrated
sub-projects (Veracruz), others (Hidalgo) have tended to
disperse efforts in a larger number of smaller support
activities.
2\ "Requests" (solicitudes de apoyo) are accounted as the individual support provided by the project to beneficiaries for each activity item (lznea de
accion) indicated in the operations manual. Sub-projects are a combination of "requests" for a whole group or community.
- 34 -



Technical Assistance
Principle being tested. Experience indicates that the project is promoting a system of technical assistance
which is efficient, community-based and demand driven
Subprojects receive support                       Oaxaca SLP Hidalgo Veracruz     Prornotion of the of TA through
from extension workers and/or Extension agents n.  37    26    41       28         dedicated private services to be
TA                          Courses to trainers    22    42    26        9         contracted by the program with
Courses to producers   27   104    79      63         the responsibility to select,
Exchange visits        13   41    19        19        coordinate and train extension
Demonstration plots    12   65    30       49         agents in the region and assist the
Regional Councils in the
Technical assistance support has generally been seen as a  sub-projects approval process.
major achievement in many of the project areas which have
traditionally been neglected by public support programs.
Performance of the TA has been variable. While all
sub-projects have received assistance by the extension agents
for their preparation, implementation support lhas been more
irregular and in some cases insufficient. Considerable
progress in TA performance has been achieved through the
hiring of professional private services (as in San Luis Potosi).
Extension workers are well    Overall extension agents are well accepted and integrated in  Continued emphasis will be
accepted and integrated in the the commnunity with the objective of progressively being taken devoted to proficiency of
community                   care of by the communities themselves. However, the difficult indigenous language, the
living conditions of the remotest areas have caused high  promotion of village "promoters",
rotation of staff, or desertion because of budgetary issues (in  and community-driven
the case of Oaxaca). This will also be addressed through the  performance evaluation of the
sub-contracting of a dedicated private firm,           extension workers.
- 35 -



Addendum 2 to Annex 1
Triggers indicators to move from phase II to phase III
For First Phase Areas
Mixe, Cuicateca, and   Productive investnents     a) Each region demonstrates a   Evaluation reports, made
Mazateca (Oaxaca);                                substantial adoption of proposed    available to all members of
Huasteca (Veracruz, San  Effectiveness of a matching   technology and an increase in  Regional councils, to be
Luis Potosi and Hidalgo). grant scheme for productive   agricultural productivity; and higher carried out by independent
investment, introducing an    income from these activities.  consultants in every region
elemnent of financial                                      once a year (incorporating
sustainability through     b) The number of subprojects under analysis of results of farmers'
fostering commnunity-based   implementation in each project  surveys).
savings and loan schemes.    region is in line with the logical
framework indicators and shows a
real demand by producers.
c) Capitalization funds are being
promoted and established by the
groups/communities with the
support of specialized assistance,
and operate successfully as part of
the project cost-recovery
mechanism.
Community Development      The project has promoted the    Evaluation reports, made
preparation and implementation of  available to all members of
A community-based          participatory community         Regional councils, to be
participatory approach     development plans for natural   carried out by independent
facilitates internal       resources management, small     consultants in every region
organization and development, infrastructure, productive   once a year (incorporating
and permits communities to  investments, and capacity building. analysis of results of farmers'
define demand for the support                              surveys).
services that meet their needs.
Technical Support          a) Target groups are of the opinion  Evaluation reports, made
that service delivery is useful and at available to all members of
Establislument of a        least 60% of the subprojects    Regional councils, to be
demand-driven and effective  financed have benefited from  carried out by independent
system for the delivery of  techlnical assistance.         consultants in every region
support services.                                          once a year (incorporating
b) Communities agree with the   analysis of results of farmers'
selection made of the extension   . surveys).
workers and are willing to
contribute to part of their costs.
c) Progress in knowledge and
practice change through an
improvement of smallholder
farning systems is demonstrated in
each project region.
- 36 -



Institutional strengthening.    a) The Regional Councils operate   Evaluation reports, made
administration and monitoring satisfactorily in each project region. available to all members of
The project promotes institutional   Regional councils, to be
The project's institutional  complementarity at the regional    carried out by independent
arrangements reflect effective  level and foster better overall impact consultants in every region
decentralized               of government programs.           once a year (incorporating
decision-making, builds local                                 analysis of results of farmers'
responsibility and          b) Administrative arrangements    surveys).
accountability, and         permit effective and timely project
implements an effective     approval and implementation.
monitoring and evaluation
system.                     c) Monitoring and evaluation
reports are submitted in time and
adequately reflect implementation
progress.
37 -



For Second Phase Areas
Norte, Sierra (Chiapas);  Institutional arrangements    a) Regional Councils are established Evaluation reports, made
Sierra Norte (Puebla);                              in each region with a balanced    available to all members of
Altiplano and Paine (San  Experience indicates that the  participation of institutions,  Regional councils, to be
Luis Potosi); Alto Balsas  project's institutional  producers organizations, community carried out by independent
(Guerrero); Zongolica    arrangements reflect effective  representatives and NGOs     consultants in every region at
(Veracruz);             decentralized               recognized by beneficiaries and   the end of the first year of
Meseta-Purepecha and    decision-making, build local  institutions. Coffee Councils  implementation
Tierra Caliente         responsibility and          effectively participate in project    (incorporating analysis of
(Michoacan)             accountability, and         implementation and pursue greater  results of farmers' surveys).
implements an effective     coordination and integration with
monitoring and evaluation    the CRDSs for the development of
system).                    the coffee areas.
b) Administrative arrangements and
the way the Regional Councils
work, permit effective and timely
approval and implementation of
sub-projects that respond to user's
needs and community planning.
c) The monitoring and evaluation
system permits to follow-up project
implementation and assess
achievement of project objectives.
Community Participation     a) Communities participate to
project activities and develop
Experiences indicates that the internal mechanisms for the
project facilitates community  submission and implementation of
organization and development sub-project proposals, including the
in a sustainable way, fostering increased preparation of community
productive and social projects. development plans as a basis for
defining local priorities and
programs of actions.
b) Capitalization funds are being
promoted and established by the
groups/communities with the
assistance of specialized technical
assistance so as to pursue
self-sustainability and cost recovery
mechanisms.
c) Beneficiaries prepare and submit
proposals in a significant number,
reflecting the community plan,
including productive investment and
community development.
- 38 -



Technical Assistance        a) Subprojects receive effective
technical assistance support, and
Experience indicates that the  there is an increased use of
project is promoting a system  sub-contracted private providers of
of technical assistance which  TA.
is efficient, commnity-based
and demand-driven.          b) Extension workers are well
accepted, integrated in the
community and efficiently
promoting sustainable community
development.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Project Description
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$46.00 million
Productive Investments
Under this component the project will finaance demand-driven investment subprojects for agricultural
production, natural resources management, processing activities, and minor productive infrastructure. The
investments will be financed through a matching grants system. Up-front farmers contribution will be in
kind or/and in cash and will not be less than 30% of project cost. The grant-financing amounts for the
different type of activities are subject to ceilings as defined in the Operation Manual. Financing of the
subprojects would include the following: fa.rming equipment and tools; input for cultivation or livestock;
animals; construction material; small works and installations; processing machinery; small irrigation and
drainage works and equipment; plantations and nurseries; technical assistance and specialized training; and
storage facilities for inputs and products.
Improvements in existing Farming Systems for Basic Grains "Milpa" (Milpa is the Mexican name for the
land used by farmers to produce food for their own subsistence. Maize, beans and some vegetables are
normally grown in a variety of ways, including crop association and relay systems) and home garden
production ("Transpatio"). There are two combined aspects related to milpa husbandry: to increase
subsistence grain production in order to imiprove household food security, and to disseminate sustainable
grain production technologies that would improve soil and moisture conditions, mostly through minimum
tillage methods, green manure, and live barriers. Improvement of crop rotations, intercropping systems,
fallow systems and better varieties are also considered. The most important requirement for tapping the
existing potential is a good understanding of the complex functioning of the milpa system, of the labor and
input requirements of the present and proposed technologies, and of the interaction between the milpa and
other on- and off-farm activities in the family economy together with labor allocation strategies of the
small-holders. Transpatio cultivation (homestead) is related to vegetable and fruit production and rearing of
small animals (birds, sheep, goats and, in somne places, pigs). The transpatio is mostly a women occupation
and provides for both domestic consumption and for occasional sales.
Diversification and Improvement of Farming Production with Commercial Objectives
The most important crops concerned are coffee, sugar cane, and citrus fruits. There is much room for
improvement of coffee yields and returns to inivestments in coffee production. Rehabilitation would have to
proceed carefully, however, through natural attrition and the filling of the many voids in coffee groves. The
expansion of the production of organic coffee is a promising line of investment in the sector. Organic coffee
growers have already established certification and export channels on which the project could build. (See a
specific addendum on the Coffee program below).
Diversification subprojects would comprise a variety of crops with arboreal or shrub plantations (such as
vanilla, macadamia, litchi, citrus, etc.); annuaLl crops (i.e. passionflower, ginger, chilis, pineapple, flowers,
etc.); and the development of minor stockbreeding, aquaculture, and apiculture. The production of loaf
sugar from sugar cane has also a good potential. It would require some on-farm investments and technology
enhancements to increase yields and improve processing and marketing of the output so as to increase the
added value at the farmer's level. Citrus prodluction improvement also offer a good potential (mandarins,
sweet lemons and grapefruits) but the existence of good marketing outlets will need to be ensured.
- 40 -



In addition to small livestock development, the project would promote technologies and investments that
would foster intensification of livestock activities, such as dual-purpose cattle raising (dairy and meat)
which offers the main opportunities in the lower zones.
Natural Resources Management and Agroforestry
Subprojects would facilitate sustainable production of firewood, in order to help soil conservation and the
utilization of medicine plants. It would also assist in the establishment of seed and plant nurseries and in the
recuperation and conservation of soil. Forestry resources are currently exploited commercially for timber
in parts of the upper zones by communities and ejidos. There are localized potentials to develop these
activities with technical assistance for forest management.
Small enterprise development
Subprojects would assist in the establishment of small centers for animal breeding, small store systems,
transformation and commercialization of farming products and input, artisanal crafting, processing units,
the production of building material, furniture construction, various types of wood and iron works, repair
shops, basket and pottery making, etc... The project would also support the establishment of small private
businesses for the provision of agricultural services.
Capitalization Funds
While the use of matching grants to finance rural productive investments could be considered as a second
best approach in facilitating access to financing, it was chosen due to the low performance of rural
financial markets in Mexico, which are particularly deficient or non-existent in rural poverty zones.
International experience has shown that directed credit has low repayment rates and high administrative
costs. The approach chosen in this program would not face comparable administrative costs since fiscal
recuperation of the funds is not envisaged. Rather, in addition to up-front beneficiary contribution to the
cost of the subprojects (30 percent), a cost recovery mechanism would be promoted at the community level
for the remaining 70 percent and would build on internal management practices, peer pressure and local
control systems for the establishment of capitalization funds at the community/group level. These funds
will recognize the individual beneficiary ownership of the amount recovered and will seek to establish
transparent, albeit simple, mechanisms for funds amangement. A specific technical assistance effort would
be implemented so as to provide the required social interrnediation support through NGOs or private
consultants, which, in many instances, are already involved in the management of informal micro-financing
schemes in the regions. Linkages with established financial intermediaries will be sought early in the
process to ensure the safe handling of funds and transparency and accountability in funds management.
Funds would be invested or spent at the community level according to internal priorities and mechanisms as
defined by the community/group. The recovered amounts would thus remain as financial capital circulating
in the community, or would take the form of physical capital depending on the investment decision made by
the community/group. That would constitute the basis for the development of self-sustained savings and
loan schemes and would progressively evolve towards or link with existing financial intermediation systems
(such as existing savings and loan institutions, credit unions and commercial banks).
Project Component 2 - US$6.00 million
Community Development
This component mostly covers activities to be implemented by the communities and whose financing would
not need to be recovered. Main activities include preparation and implementation of sirnple plans of
community-based natural resources management using participatory rural assessment methods, small
projects of indirect benefits related to community activities, studies for the preparation of community
- 41 -



development plans and works, workshops and training for capacity building, participatory approaches,
technical assistance for the management of revolving funds, etc...
Project Component 3 - USS 17.00 million
Technical Support
This component of the project coveers the provision of extension services, technical support and
training of farmers and producers organizations, required for the implementation of subprojects, the
establishment of demonstration plots, and the organization of workshops and training. The project will
promote the contracting out of technical assistance through NGOs and private sector support services for
the identification, preparation and implementation of the subprojects.
Typical activities under this component will be:
* Training courses and workshops on agricultural productivity.
Establishment of demonstration plots and technology validation modules.
* Tours and workshops to exchange experiences among producers' groups.
Identification of project ideas and support to project preparation, for activities to be presented
under components 1 and 2.
Support to participative planning and programming.
Support for self-evaluation of the project and its impact.
Identification of the requirements for specialized technical assistance in the project zones.
Diagnostic studies using participative rural evaluation methods.
Project Component 4 - US$4.00 million
Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration
Activities under this component would focus on the support to project management and administration and
include (i) the establishment and operations of the technical support teams for each Regional Sustainable
Development Councils (CRDS); (ii) capacity building and training for the CRDSs and Coffee Councils;
and (ii) institutional strengthening at the central level for project management, monitoring and evaluation,
and auditing.
Through the support provided to the CRDSs and Coffee Councils, the project seeks to strengthen the
decentralization process and foster the constitution of sustainable decision-making and coordination bodies
that would permit better integration of programs at the regional level and better participation and ownership
by the beneficiaries. At the central level SAGAR would be strengthened to implement the monitoring and
evaluation system, carry out project administration and undertake project preparation and launching for the
new regions under the national program.
- 42 -



The Coffee Program
Backeround
Mexico is the world's fifth largest producer of coffee after Brazil, Colombia Indonesia and Vietnamn.
Production has fluctuated from year to year but the average over the last ten years is 4.6 million bags of 60
kg. (276,000 tons). The number of producers is estimated to be around 280,000 (according to the census
conducted by INMECAFE in 1992) and the acreage 760,000 hectares. About 80 percent of production is
exported, mainly to the United States, and coffee is Mexico's most irnportant exported agricultural
commodity. It is produced in 12 states but the southern states of Chiapas, Veracruz, Oaxaca and Puebla
account for about 90 percent of the country's production. More than 90 percent of producers are
smallholders with landholding of less than 5 hectares and most of these small producers are indigenous
people (85 percent of total). Yield in the southern states is very low; many of them estimated to be around
4 Qq/ha compared with about 8 Qq/ha for the country as a whole.
Up to the late 1980s, the major player in Mexico's coffee subsector was the Instituto Mexicano de Cafe
(INMECAFE), a parastatal. This organization controlled the marketing of all coffee produced and
provided various services to the producers including research, extension and credits. It also had the role of
distributing the export quotas allocated to Mexico under the international export quota system operated by
the International Coffee Organization (ICO). With the collapse of the international quota system
INMECAFE was gradually abolished starting with withdrawal from marketing of coffee in the 1989/90
season. It was abolished completely in 1993. This drastically reduced public services to the producers and
has prompted restructuring of producer organizations.
The main issue of Mexico's coffee subsector has been serious poverty among most of coffee producers due
to low coffee yields and price, limited alternative crops and small plots of land. Most of coffee-growing
areas are also marginal areas. Low coffee yields, in turn, have been caused by low density of traditional
variety plants, low level of technology, aging trees, and coffee diseases. Most coffee growing areas also
suffer from inadequate transportation, which has caused transportation costs of coffee and inputs to be high
and has limited competition among traders because of the difficult accessibility.
World coffee prices plummeted after the collapse of the international coffee export quota system in July
1989 and continued to stay at very low levels until the early 1994. This, along with the abolition of
INMECAFE, created severe financial problems for most coffee growers in Mexico and prompted the
Government to take measures to alleviate their dire conditions. Included in such efforts was a program
under Alianza called "Impulso a la Produccion de Cafe" (Support for Coffee Production) which started in
1995. After 1997 when the program was transferred from the Subsecretaria de Agricultura to the
Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Rural in the same SAGAR, the Coffee Program evolved to include several
rural development components.
Obiectives and Coveraze of the Coffee Program
The Coffee Program seeks to improve the welfare, jobs and income of small-holder coffee growers and
their communities in 54 poorest regions of the country through replanting of old trees, technological
change, treatment of coffee diseases and diversification through training and extension.
More specifically, the Program aims at:
(i) Increasing productivity through technological change;
- 43 -



(ii) Strengthening the health of coffee trees in order to improve the coffee quality;
(iii) Modernizing wet processing to reduce soil and water contamination;
(iv) Diversifying economic activities to expand employment opportunities and promoting
substitution of coffee by other more profitable crops in marginal coffee growing areas (above 1200
meters and below 600 meters);
(v) Revitalizing training and extension services to provide better technology and proper
mechanisms for technology transfer;
(vi) Inducing a culture of saving and loans through recovery of project resources;
(vii) Modernizing commercial activities in the coffee growing areas to expand farmers'
opportunities and to increase their profitability;
(viii) Facilitating access to new technologies which would enable farmers to promote natural
resource conservation and bio-diversity preservation; and
(ix) Strengthening the coordination of actions, through participation, those of federal, state,
municipal and coffee producers' organizations.
SAGAR and the Mexican Coffee Council (Consejo Mexicano del Cafe) designed the basic components of
the Programn, but the State Coffee Council can determine the allocation of budgets among the components
in order to tailor the Program to the different states.
In 1999 the Coffee Program covers 403 municipalities in 12 states. For the purpose of the program
municipalities are grouped into 54 Regions. The number of coffee farmers that are covered by the Coffee
Program is about 183,000.
Components of the Coffee Program of 19'99
Over time the Program has shifted from oie focused on increasing coffee productivity to one with more
emphasis on rural development. As can be seen from Table I the most important component of the
Program is still the "Support for Coffee FProduction", but new elements have been included as well as a
farmers' organization self-sustained cost recovery system. Preliminary evaluation of the Coffee Program
indicates that overall performance has been good. The main components of the program are:
Support for Coffee Production
Production of coffee plants. This component consists of provision of funds and seedlings to start coffee
nurseries. This has been extremely successful not only in producing high-yielding variety seedlings but
also in creating jobs for women and young people.
Maintenance of coffee trees. This provides funds, inputs and equipment to undertake stumping, trimming
and treatment for coffee diseases and has been successful in most states except in Guerrero and Nayarit. In
these states farmers were more interested in other activities.
Health of coffee trees and management. This component consists of providing courses on the subject and
has been successful.
Training and Extension
This component was shifted in 1998 from the other Alianza Program of SINDER to focus on coffee. The
shift has allowed training and extension to concentrate on coffee and has been successful.
Assistance for Rural Development (Equipamiento-Cafi)
Sub-components are Equipment for Primary Production. Coffee Processing Facility. Commercialization
and Coffee Agro-industrv. They provide depulping machines to farmers, and opportunities to groups of
small farmers to expand their activities into dry and wet processing and roasting. They also seek to
- 44 -



encourage marketing activities among small growers given the limited competition among traders in many
coffee growing areas.
Sustainable Development (Marginal Areas Program component)
This component is new for 1999 and aims at providing opportunities to farmers living in the Coffee
Program areas to access assistance and investment options in line with the concept and approach of the
Marginal Areas Program.
Operational Mechanism
The operational mechanism for accessing the coffee program is summarized below:
(i) A farmer fills out application forms with the help of an extentionist.
(ii) Applications are submitted to the State Coffee Council directly or through a Regional Coffee
Council.
(iii) The State Coffee Council examines all applications and submits applications to the Rural
Development Commission andlor the Technical Committee of Fideicomiso for approval, including
a financial requirement schedule.
(iv) The Technical Committee of the State Fideicomiso through the State Coffee Council approves
or rejects the applications.
(v) The State Coffee Council, after receiving the financial resources from the State Fideicomiso, is
responsible for administering the resources, procurement, and making appropriate payments.
(vi) The State Coffee Council will be responsible for the completion report for the Program of
1999 and will submit the reports to SAGAR and the Government of the state.
Monitorini- and Evaluation
The State Coffee Council has responsibility for carrying out the control and monitoring of physical and
financial transactions of the Coffee Program 1999. Information on disbursements and execution of the
Program will be available on a quarterly basis. The State Coffee Council will send the required
information, through the State Delegation of SAGAR, to the Rural Development Council, the Mexican
Coffee Council, and the General Direction of Regional Programs of SAGAR. External evaluation of the
program is to be conducted annually.
Inteeration of Activities under the Coffee Proeram and the Mareinal Areas Programs
Justification
Most of the coffee growers in the Coffee Progran areas have diversified activities and their work is not
exclusively coffee. Typically they have 2 to 3 hectares for coffee cultivation and the rest for maize, beans,
animal raising, basic grains (milpas), wood extraction and collection of fruits from forests. In order to meet
the objectives of both Programs and create synergies in increasing producers' income and welfare, it
became important for the two Programs to establish a more inter-related collaboration strategy. The
proposed progressive harmnonization of the two programs supports the recognition that it is necessary to
focus on priority agricultural systems at the farm level which are based on traditional technology and
integrated farming systems. It became clear through the evaluation of the Programs by SAGAR that they
would meet their objectives more effectively if a closer coordination could be established.
The strategy offers to coffee growers a broader menu of options and diversification opportunities. This is
- 45 -



important as many coffee farmners expanded their coffee areas to unsuitable lands in the 1980s when world
coffee prices were high, but would like to diversify out of coffee now. Further integration of activities
would benefit the Marginal Areas Progranm by taking advantage of the dynamism of the coffee producers'
well-organized approach, through producers' association.
Stages of Integration
As proposed by SAGAR, the integration of activities under the two programs will proceed in three steps
starting in 1999. The reasons for the gradual process include the time required to adjust institutional
arrangements and to obtain agreements from the various stakeholders currently involved in the two
Programs regarding new roles and tasks. Three stages of integration are considered:
Stage 1 (1999-2000). Coffee producers that fall in the regions of the Marginal Areas Programn will
benefit from both programs. In the same context the Coffee Program for 1999 will include an
additional component on diversification.
Stage 2 (2000-2001) Reach agreement with the coffee producers' organizations that, while still
keeping coffee-targeted resources Linder the Coffee Program and own structures, they become part
of the CRDSs of the Marginal Areas Program for the planning and resource allocation process.
Stage 3 (from 2001 onwards) According to prevailing circumstances in each region the CRDS
and the coffee producers' organization would agree on a process of operational integration of
activities under the two programs. Support to coffee producers will be seen from the perspective
of a community based approach to the whole set of rural development activities.
Risks
The first risk may derive from increased complexity in terms of project administration that would result in
trying to articulate a vertical and commodity-specific approach with a more horizontal and integrated
strategy of development of the coffee areas., The second risk stems from the fact that the integration reflects
the involvement of new actors in the decisio.n making process towards a more regional approach and vested
interests may resist the shift.
Eligibility
Overall, the eligibility criteria to participate in the Coffee Program are compatible with those of the
Marginal Areas Program:
- Smallholders with possession of less than 10 hectares of agricultural land planted with coffee
- Areas having suitable agroecological conditions and potential for coffee production.
- Smallholders who have total renovated area of not more than 2 hectares through previous cycles.
- Smallholders with less than 15 employees whose principal activity is coffee production.
- Smallholders belonging to localities that do not surpass 2,500 persons and are in a geographical region
agreed by between SAGAR and the state.
- Basic economic organizations that are legally established and having experience in productive activities
and defined work program with economic and social impact.
- Smallholders are committed to receive training and technical assistance and to apply technical
recommendations.
- Smallholders that are conunitted to the effective annual cycle of replanting (for the coffee replanting
program).
- 46 -



Other Coffee-Related Proerams
There are two areas that have significant impact on the Coffee Program - provision of price risk
management services to coffee growers by ASERCA and coordination of various programs and activities
by several Ministries in the rural areas, especially in relation to better infrastructure.
ASERCA's price risk management program. In mid-April 1999, the Government decided that ASERCA
would provide price risk management to coffee growers (Diario O.ficial of April 15, 1999). ASERCA has
been providing sucb services to growers of several agricultural commodities including cotton, wheat, maize
and soybeans since 1994 with considerable success. SAGAR, the Mexican Coffee Council (Consejo
Mexicano del Cafe) and coffee growers consider such programs to be critical to protecting coffee growers
from unexpected price declines. Because coffee is mainly grown by smallholders with low level of
education and with limited access to market information, new types of programs might need to be
developed. The Subsecretaria for Rural Development and ASERCA should collaborate in developing such
programs. The Bank could also collaborate as it has a group working on the feasibility of hedging
programs for smallholder in its client countries.
Coordination of Rural Development Programs and Activities among Various Secretarias. As noted above,
one of the key factors hindering economic development of coffee growing areas is the weak infrastructure,
especially roads. Poor roads limit econonic activities (growing crops with low value/transport cost ratios),
prevent coffee growers from using inputs (poor roads raise transport cost of inputs), lower producer prices
(high transport cost) and restrict competition among traders (difficult accessibility). Similarly their welfare
is impeded by the low level of education and general low level of social infrastructure. Coordination among
activities of various Secretarias (SAGAR, SEDESOL, SCT and SEMARNAP) would make each of the
activities more efficient. There are already commitments among these Secretarias to support this endeavor
in the various regions.
-47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
Productive Investments                                   37.50         4.50         42.00
Community Development                                     5.50         0.00          5.50
Technical Support                                        13.80          1.20        15.00
Program Administration                                    3.00         0.50          3.50
Total Baseline Cost                                      59.80         6.20         66.00
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                      6.50         0.50          7.00
Total Project Costs             66.30         6.70         73.00
Total Financing Required             66.30          6.70        73.00
- 48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
Benefits               Mx$2,886                    Mx$3,021
US$304                     US318
Costs                  Mx$2,176                   Mx$1,944
US$229                     US$205
Net Benefits            Mx$714                    Mx$1,077
US$75.1                    US$113
IRR                      25.2%                      32.6%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The following is a summary of the project economic, financial and fiscal analysis. A more detailed
description, including the agronomic data and parameters used, financial and economic prices, and tables
for each activity and farm model, are available in the project files. The analysis covered nine separate
regions (Pame and Altiplano in San Luis Potosi; Norte y Sierra in Chiapas; Alto Balsas in Guerrero,
Meseta-Purepecha and Tierra Caliente in Michoacan; Zongolica in Veracruz; and Sierra Norte in Puebla).
Financial Analysis. The financial viability of 52 farm models covering the most relevant activities of
marginal household production units to be supported by the project, is summarized in the following Table
1. These models permit to illustrate the likely effect of the project in introducing sustainable production
systems and improvements to the household economy, based on conservative assumptions (progressive and
limited expansion of herds or pace of changes, realistic yields and prices), taking into account the
subsistence nature and risk minimizing strategy, prevailing on the targeted population. Labor requirements,
family availability and returns per family-day of labor were also considered. The financial analysis
confirms: (i) their potential attractiveness to smallholders; (ii) the degree of profitability according to the
different regions and agro-ecological zones; and (iii) the marginal return to labor being higher than the
opportunity labor wage rate of each region.
Investments considered in the models generally implied the introduction of soil conservation techniques into
manual milpa cultivation (maize and beans) and improvements in traspatio activities (small-scale family
orchards: fruits and vegetables, poultry, pigs, apiculture) and in sheep and/or double purpose cattle
breeding. In some models, investments implied improvements in permanent crops like in the case of coffee.
Seven of the 52 farm models considered, include coffee plantation improvement: stumping, trimming and/or
treatment for diseases, management and diversification of shadow trees, introducing more productive
species (fruits, nuts, wood, etc.). Farmers income increments, as a result of project-financed on-farm
investments, ranged from about 15% to more than 200% at full development. The highest percentages
correspond to models with very low "without project" income, resulting in high relative increments. On
average, their annual net on-farmn income would grow by 160%, from about US$155 to US$408. It can be
concluded that even farmers living under extreme poverty and subsistence conditions can benefit with
improved food security and on-farm incomes as a result of adequate technical support and productive
investment.
- 49 -



Table 1: Financial Evaluation: Sam le of Illustrative Farm Models
San Luis Potosi
Maize steep hills/Tr. (PoPi.)     2.5       856       385         863         - 44        79       2,745
Maize-beans plains/Tr (FVPoCh)    2.0       477       543         847         - 45        82        1,626
Maize-beans hills/cattle/Tr (FVPo)    3.0  1,393       976      1,616         - 59       144       3,378
Maize-beans plainskcattlelTr (Po)  2.0     1,612     1,542      2,231        -48          93       3,646
Maize-beans plains/cattle/Tr(PoPi)    1.5  1,382      930       1,040         - 50        99       2,776
Maize-beans/Chili pi/Tr (PoPiFV)  2.0      1,037      861       1,160         - 55       120       3,412
Maize-beans hillspeanuts/cattlelTr    8.0  1,885     1,535      2,559         - 53       113       6,117
Maize-beans hills/Tr (PoCh&FV)     1.3      896       486       1,020         - 52       110       2,847
Maize-beans hills/Tr (Po)          1.3      357       242         370         - 34        52         643
Maize/beans plains/cane/cattle/Tr  2.8      799      1,291      1,525         - 22        29        1,035
Maize plains/sorghum/Tr (PoPi)    2.3       751       323         645         - 37        59        1,867
Maize-beans plains/Tr (Ch)        2.3       623       717         908         -25         34         908
Community Forest Management     1,000    13,727      9,473     35,459        -62         165     157,337
Maize/beans/goats (PoPi)          7.0       584       421         721         -41         69        1,540
Maizelbeans/cattle (PoPi)         5.0       511       348         625         -39         64        1,510
Maize/beans/goats (PoPi)          3.0       323        192        333         -34         52         729
Maize/beans/sheep (PoPi)          2.0       718       210         720         -44         78       2,420
Chiapas
Maize/coffee`Tr (FVYCRef.         5.0       886      2,142      4,744         - 73       271      6,364
Maizelsheep/Tr (PoPi)CRef          1.5      730        107      1,675         -78        211      6,777
Maize/coffeelTr (PoPiyCRef        5.0     2,342      4,079      7,924         - 38        61      6,138
Maize/cattle/coffee/fr (PoPiYCRef    4.0   1,714       945      5,343         - 72       262     16,973
Maizelcattle/Tr (PoPiYCRor        3.5      1,319       187      3,974         - 73       273     15,808
Maize/coffee/cattle/Tr (PoPiyCRef    6.0  2,726      2,343      7,101         - 72       224     13,091
Maize/coffee/cattletrr (FVYCFor   4.5      1,743       893      4,732         - 81       427     13,624
Maize/Coffee/fr (PoPiYCFor        4.5      1,956     3,044      6,952         -63        168     11,048
Maize/coffee/Tr (PoPiYCFor        5.0     2,662      5,501      9,431         - 20        26      2,882
Maize/sheep/Tr (PoPi)             2.0       902        132      1,837         - 58       138      9,837
Michoacan
Maize/wheat/cattle/Po-Pi          3.2       795        626       1,133       -20          25       1,988
Maize/cattle/Po-Pi                2.5       568        481        911        -23         29        1,776
Maize/vwiheat/cattle/Po-Pi        1.8       540        442        766        -21         26        1,278
Maize/Po-Pi                       1.0       475        148        536         -18        22        1,430
MaizelsorghumJcattle/Po-Pi        2.6       962        604       1,008       -18         22        1,524
Maize/beans/cattle/Po-Pi          4.0      1,249      1,020      1,570       -23          29       2,310
Maizelbeans/Po-Pi                 1.5       568        225       495         -19         23         982
Guerrero
Maize/peanuts/Tr(PoPi)            3.0       1,100      68         857         -35         55       3,606
Maize/beans/cattle/watermelon     3.0       1,715      446       1,393       -41          70       5,509
Maize/Tr(PoPi)                    2.0       1,295      343       1,318       -20          25       3,684
Maize/fr (PoPi)                   1.0       647        116        581         -18         22       1,650
Veracruz
Maize/beans/goats (PoPi)          1.5       543        366        598         -38         62       1,150
MaIze/Po-Pi                       1,0       483        155        445        - 48         93       1,579
Maize/beans/Po-Pi                 1.8       526        218        456         -36         55       1,267
Maize/beans/sheep/Po-Pi           2.2       1,063      264        834         -40         67       2,843
Puebla
Maizelbeans/wheatVPo-Pi           2.3       692       369         845         - 52       110      2,480
Maizelbeans/Po-Pi                0.75       318       285         629         - 64        176     2,008
Maize/beans/Po-Pi                0.75       330       358         746         - 66       197      2,268
Maize/beans/coffee/Po-Pi          2.1       967      2,087      3,848         - 56       127      3,155
Maize/beanscoffee/Po-Pi           1.5       695      1,107      2,135         -60        148      2,622
Tr: Transpatio; Po: Poultry; Pi: Pigs; Ch: Chivos; F: Fruits; V: Vegetables; Calab: Calabazas; Cref: Comm. Forestry
- 50 -



Economic Analysis. The economic benefits of the project would be primarily generated by the increased
agricultural production and farmers income. Other important results adding benefits to the project are not
quantified. Some of the most relevant are: (i) positive effects on natural resources; (ii) food security,
nutrition and health as a result of increased and diversified production; (iii) effects of strengthened farmers
and community organizations; (iv) promotion of revolving funds with the recuperation of the financial
incentives for on-farm productive investments; and (v) investments in human capital. Economic return
calculations included the cost of all project components: (i) incremental on-farm productive investment and
recurrent expenditure for the adoption of sustainable agricultural production systems to be promoted; (ii)
technical assistance to farmers; (iii) community development costs; and (iv) institutional strengthening and
project administration costs. Benefits considered incremental production and lower farm unit costs. The
overall evaluation has been undertaken by aggregating individual results weighted by their importance and
relevance in the region. Under these assumptions, the internal economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at
about 25%. Table 1 shows the aggregated beneficiaries, project costs (productive investments and technical
support investments, including the other three project components), the resulting economic indicators
(ERR, NPV) and the corresponding switching values per region and for the whole project. Table 2 shows
the aggregation of the results by region.
Table 2. Economic Evaluation: Sample of Illustrative Aggregate Results by Regions
Pare, SLP                 21,200  2,547    1,210    3,757  32.9     3,502   - 28   185    55    38
Altiplano, SLP            64,400  4,400    2,800    7,200  26.5     4,800   -20   155    35    25
Sierra, Chiapas           15,400  3,758    1,958    5,716  19.9    12,343  -28   212    53    38
Norte, Chiapas            11,550  2,600    1,337    3,937  40.3    14,198   -52   641   144   107
Alto Balsas, Gue          58,240  8,179    3,758   11,937  16.7     3,670    4     51      5     5
Meseta Purepecha, Mich    50,330  4,063    2,336    6,399  21.0     3,682    -8   136    10      9
Tierra Caliente, Mich     17,710   1,979    1,158    3,137  16.1      616    -5    46      6     5
Zongolica, Ver            55,230  4,873    3,021    7,894  26.2     4,875   -21   148    38    26
SierraNorte, Puebla     163,100  12,895    8,116   21,011  26.4    27,420   -42   305    90    73
Total 9 Regions          457,160  45,294   25,694   70.988  25.2    75,106  -25   148   131    33
Fiscal Analysis. The project operates under the nation-wide Alianza para el Campo Program whose
budget for 1999 is of about US$250 million equivalent at the federal level. The Alianza represents less than
20 percent of SAGAR's budget. Within that framework, the budget for the nine new areas of the RDMA
APL II program in 1999 is of about US$3.5 million of federal money. The Coffee Program federal budget
in those sane regions is of about US$1.9 million. Recurrent expenditures represent only about 3 percent of
project costs, and more than 75 percent are direct subproject-related investments. While proportions may
vary from state to state, the cost sharing arrangement for this program is on average of: 50 percent at the
federal level, 25 percent at the state level, and 25 percent from the producers. Budget figures for 1999 for
the Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project ll are as follows. Beneficiary contribution would
represent approximately another US$3.3 million.
- 51 -



Table 3: Government budget for the nine program areas, 1999 (In OOOUS$)
Chiapas RDMAP                    600                      100                 700
Coffee Program           600                     150                  750
Total                   1,200                    250                1,450
Michoacan                         450                    450                  900
Guerrero                         897                     282                 1,179
Puebla  RDMAP                    526                     526                 1,052
Coffee Program          1,211                    358                1,569
Total                   1,737                    884                2,621
San Luis Potosi                  77 0                    505                 1,275
Veracruz PDMAP                   291                      126                 417
Coffee Program            63                      1 5                  78
Total                    354                     141                  495
RDMAP                           3,534                   1,989               5,523
Coffee Program                  1,874                    523                2,397
Total (1999)            5,408                   2,512               7,920
All Bank's financed programs in Mexico operate within the existing national budget allocated to sector
agencies (SAGAR in this case) and the states, in line with the tight fiscal policy being pursued by the
Government. Bank's financing will not generate additional fiscal requirement. The federal contribution to
this second phase project would represent about 3% of the total Alianza budget. Incremental tax revenues
accrued to the Federal Government, as a result of project activities would be negligible, as sales of good
and services in the agricultural sector are exempt from [VA. Income tax revenues from incremental
profitability of on-farm production would also be negligible given the low level of income of the target
population. Therefore, the fiscal impact of the project would be small but negative.
Similarly, at the state level, the bulk of their budget derives from revenue sharing mechanisms of taxation
income by the federal level. Therefore, state's contribution to the program also falls within the global
targets of fiscal deficit. The issue of financial sustainability of the project would depend on internal criteria
for resources allocation based on local priorities and political willingness to support interventions for
productive investrnents in rural poverty areas.
- 52 -



Main Assumptions:
Description of the Approach. Since poverty alleviation is the main focus of the project, financial
incentives and transfers are considered relevant instruments to serve redistribution objectives. The financial
and economic analysis was based on the social, productive and economic studies made by independent
consultants for the nine new regions to be covered by the APL II: Norte and Sierra regions in Chiapas,
Pamne and Altiplano in San Luis Potosi, Meseta-Purepecha and Tierra Caliente in Michoacan, Sierra Norte
in Puebla and Alto Balsas in Guerrero. Because of the demand driven nature of the project, it is not
possible to know a priori which micro-projects will be actually financed, nor in which proportion. The
option taken for the evaluation was to adopt a scenario approach, analyzing a selection of activity budgets
for prototype investments and fann budgets typical of farming situations in the various regions and
agro-ecological zones. Seventy one crop and activity models and 52 farm models have been elaborated to
cover the universe of possible alternatives and compare with and without project situations in order to
measure the possible changes to be induced by the project. The budgets take into account minor on-farm
investments, production parameters, recurrent costs and labor requirements. In many cases, rates of return
are not possible to estimate due to the lack of negative figures in the annual cash flows. The use of expected
on-farm income improvements (before labor costs) and its NPV have been preferred as indicators of
financial results, since most of the models basically deal with inexpensive technology improvements to
existing situations.
The main assumptions for the financial analysis were: (i) discount rate: 12%; (ii) time horizon: 20 years;
(iii) labor, input and output prices: constant first quarter 1999; (iv) real exchange rate constant: Mx$9,50
per US dollar; (v) 80% of investment costs (excluding labor) included in farm models, are financed by the
project. For the purpose of the financial analysis and its effect on the cash flow, three constant payments
including a 5% annual interest rate was considered, beginning in the following year of the investment
period.
The adjustments made for the economic analysis mainly reflect the removal of taxes and subsidies (mainly
through PROCAMPO). While the project would increase on- and off-farm employment in the selected
marginal areas, unemployment and under-employment would not be eliminated. Therefore, a conversion
factor of 0,80 to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was used. The policy reforms and the
opening of the economy that have been taking place in the last decade, together with the open market
determination of the exchange rate reflecting its real value, leads to the conclusion that domestic prices tend
to correspond to border economic values. In general, it is considered that there are few distortions on
agricultural input and output prices, as they bear limited taxation and subsidies. As only activities
identified and presented by potential beneficiaries would be considered by the project, an ex-ante
determination of costs and benefits of productive investments would not be feasible. Consequently,
economic return estimates had to be based on the sample of farm models described above, incorporating
scenarios at the nine regions above mentioned and at the whole project levels, by aggregation of farms. This
aggregation considers the relative importance of the various productive investment proposals as indicated
by historical demand patterns.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sustainability of project benefits is expected to be high, given that the increase in physical assets will be
complemented with improvements in social and human capital through the community development and
technical support components. Additionally, the establishment of revolving funds with the recuperation at
the community level of the project's matching funds and the development of informal local micro-financing
schemes, will help the development of self-sustained savings an loan mechanisms, strengthening the
- 53 -



existing financial intermediation systems. About 32% of project resources are likely to be channeled to
support community development activities and technical support to farmers and their organizations.
Studies, development plans, works, training and support for management of revolving funds, will promote
participation and economies of scale on project interventions. As a result of project activities, production
and new commercial activities including small business and enterprises are expected to develop, which
would have a positive impact on local employment. The project will also promote private sector technical
assistance and community development services to marginal communities, which is expected to increase the
impact of project-financed on-farm investments.
Table 1 presents the switching values for each of the 52 farn models. On average, financial revenues at the
farm level should fall by 50% or total costs (investments plus operating) increase by 132% in order to
reduce the NPV to zero. This analysis confinms that the financial attractiveness of the proposed changes in
the household production units is robust.
Analysis performed (switching values) to measure the sensitivity of the ERR to the estimated benefits and
costs of the project activities and investments included indicates that benefits should fall by 31% or costs
should increase by 44% from there expected estimates in order to bring down the ERR to 12%. If benefits
were reduced by 20% and costs increase by 20% at the samne time, ERR would also fall to 12%. Table 2 in
this Annex shows the switching values for each of the nine regions to be incorporated in this APL II.
- 54 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD (US$ Million)
Total financing
Required                 7.1      10.9      11.7     12.6      13.8      14.9     71.0
Investment costs       0.2       0.3      0.3       0.4      0.4       0.4      2.0
Recurrent Costs
Total financing          7.3      14.0      15.5     16.5      18.0     15.3      73.0
Financing
Government
*Federal             3.7       5.4      6.0       6.5      7.1       7.7      36.4
* States             1.6       2.5      3.0       3.2      3.6       3.8      17.7
Producers              2.0      3.3       3.0       3.3      3.5       3.8      18.9
Total                    7.3      11.2     12.0      13.0     14.2      15.3      73.0
Bank's financing of      5.5       8.4      9.0       9.8      10.8      11.5     55.0
total (75%)
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurernent and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank under the project would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit (January
1995 revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant services to
provide technical assistance and training to the project coordination unit would be procured in accordance
with Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency (January 1997 revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Sub-projects would comprise a broad spectrum of activities to be undertaken with direct participation and
financial contribution of the beneficiaries. Eligibility criteria and operational procedures would be included
in the Operation Manual for the project. Expenditures would be made against an approved sub-project
proposal and budget. The total cost for an individual sub-project would not exceed US$50,000. The main
purchases to be made would consists in small equipment, material and supplies, small ruminants for
fattening and poultry, plants and seeds, some construction material, technical assistance and training. Local
shopping procedures would be applicable to subprojects, however, given the remote location of many rural
communities and in order to encourage conimunity participation in project execution, employ appropriate
local technologies, and ensure community oommitment to project sustainability, direct contracting would be
permitted to implement subprojects. The grouping of these purchases would not be feasible because they
involve different operators and scattered beneficiaries in remote areas. Moreover, the actual contracts for
goods, works and services would normally 'be smaller than the total cost of a sub-project, thus justifying
off-the-shelf purchases and direct contracting. Procurement would be undertaken by the Regional Councils
for Sustainable Development (CRDS) and by the beneficiaries of the subprojects, and payments made
through the State Fideicomiso according to procedures already established under the Alianza para el
Campo Program in Mexico, and incorporated into the Operational Manual as the basis for procurement
under the project. Ceiling amounts of sub-project support for beneficiaries would be established for the
different type of activities envisaged and included in the Operation Manual.
Consultant Services. Consultant services would be procured in accordance to "Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants" (January 1997, revised Septerriber 1997 and January 1999). During the first phase project
most of the consultants services for technical assistance were provided under the national extension system
and through other specialized individual staff. Results from preliminary experience indicate that better
results can be achieved through the services of a dedicated private firm (despacho), which would be
responsible for coordinating implementation and T.A. activities in the field. In phase II, and depending on
local circumstances, it is proposed to progressively move towards the contracting of professional private
support services that would be well accepted in the regions, with local experience, and adequate skills.
These private services will initially have a demnonstration effect as there is little experience of publicly-hired
private services in Mexico. They will need to establish and maintain a solid basis of trust with the
communities they serve. Quality and costs criteria (QCBS) would generally apply, however, direct
contracting, expected not to exceed US$2.5 riillions, would be allowed in the regions where: i) it would be
important to maintain continuity vis-a-vis the communities if existing support services already exists with a
track record of satisfactory performance, local knowledge and good penetration in the area; ii) no
competitive market exists for appropriate T.A. firms with local experience and knowledge. The
performance of the private firmns would be evaluated annually so as to judge whether to continue their
contract. In the areas where the contracting of' private services is not feasible, the program will continue to
- 56 -



operate through individual technicians to be contracted through short lists or qualifications. In the case of
evaluation services, direct contracting, expected not to exceed US$0.5 millions, would be allowed in the
cases where it is considered important to continue with the same consultant that carried out the evaluation
of the previous year and build on the accumulated experience. Training services under US$100,000
equivalent per contract will be procured using consultant qualification methods.
Experience under Phase I. Implementation of sub-projects and procurement actions under the first phase
have generally been carried out according to the projects Operations Manual. Community participation has
been an important factor in deciding the type of investments to be carried out at the local level. Direct
community involvement in procurement action has varied according to the different participating states, but
it proved instrumental in developing ownership during implementation and in developing local markets.
More substantial community involvement in procurement will be sought in the future through enhanced
community contracting and/or community identification of providers. Delays in sub-project and payment
approvals at the level of the State Fideicomiso have hampered in some cases smooth implementation. This
is now being addressed through the appointment of a representative of the Marginal Areas program (vocal)
in each State Rural Development Commission, and in simplifying the processing procedures. Also, the
SAGAR Delegation in each participating state includes an Operations Assistant for this program, that will
be responsible for monitoring and assisting in disbursement and procurement activities.
Consultant procurement, mostly for field technical assistance purposes, has usually been carried out
through individual contracting on the basis of qualifications. The National Institute for Agricultural
Training (INCA) or the Intemational Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture (IICA) have, in most of the
cases, carried out the selection and contracting arrangements on behalf of SAGAR. Community
participation was also sought, as the technical agents have to be part of the community they are assigned to
and their performance is evaluated by the project beneficiaries they serve. The recommended move towards
greater reliance on private local firms will require a specific sensitization effort to be carried out at the state
level, given the little experience so far in this field, so as to demonstrate better performance and seek a
demonstration effect. This will also require that consultant procurement rules for firms be better
internalized while allowing for some flexibility in special circumstances (see above) to facilitate the
introduction of this new approach.
Monitoring of procurement practices would be carried out to ensure consistency with Bank guidelines,
the operational manual and MIS. Bank prior review thresholds are shown in table B. All consultant
contracts with individuals for up to US$50,000 and all firns up to US$100,000 would require prior review
by the Bank of corresponding terms of reference and short lists. In addition prior review of evaluation
reports technical and economical, and draft contract would be required for consultant contract with
individuals exceeding US$50,000 and firms exceeding US$100,000. As part of the bi-annual project
supervision effort, the Mexico-based Procurement Specialist will carry out monitoring of procurement
procedures and documentation, and field post-reviews of a sample of sub-projects.
- 57 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Total (US$Million)
Other a/ (US$million)          (Including Contingencies)
A. Subprojects                                   52.0 b/                          52.0
(39.0)                           (39.0)
B. Consultant Services                            19.0                             19.0
(14.5)                           (14.5)
C. Operating Costs                                2.0 c/                           2.0
(1.5)                            (1.5)
TOTAL                                            73.0                             73.0
(55.0)                           (55.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
a/ Includes works and goods to be procured through direct contracting, national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance, and incremental operating costs
related to managing the project, and office equipment.
b/ Matching grants. Conmunity procurement and direct contracting for works, good and services for subprojects of less
than US$50,000
c/ National shopping
Consultant Services Planning
Serviees for        Quality Cost Based Selection            8.0      2000-2005 \1   Delegate of the Fideicomiso
Operations and
T.A                 Direct contract.               _        2.5
Servines for        Quality Cost Based Selection            1.5      2000-2005 \2   Delegate of the Fideicomiso or
Evaluation                                                                            SAGAR \6
Direet contract.                       0.5
Pre-operation       Quality Cost Based Selection            1.0      2000-2005 \3   Delegate of the Fideicomiso
Studies__ __                                                         __         __
Training            Quality Cost Based Selectioni           0.5      2000-2005 \4   Delegate of the Fideicomniso
Qualifications                         1.0
Individual T. . A.   S.L. / Qualifications                  4.0      2000-2005 \5   Delegate of the Fideicomiso
ony/individual
Total                                                      19.0
(Bank's financing                                         (13.5)
75%)              _
1 Contracting of private services would take place during the project period, according to prevailing circumstances and annual evaluations.
2 Contracting for evaluation services would be annual for every project State
3 Pre-operation studies would help with the preparation studies of new areas
4 Training activities will take place on a permanent basis
5 Contracts for individual technicians are for periods varying between 6 months to a year and are carried out on a regular basis
6 SAGAR would contract the annual evaluations in the cases where the budget is not transferred to the States (Fideicomiso)
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
1. Subprojects             <50,000       Community Procurenient         None
.                           ~~~~~~~~~~~direct contracting
2. Consultant Services                   According to Consultant
Guidelines
with Firms           >100,000          Quality and cost            Yes
Direct contracting
with Finms (for training  <100,000          Consultant Qualif.     Only TORs/S.L.
and other services)
with Individuals        <50,000            Individuals               None
with Individuals        >50,000            Individuals               Yes
- 59 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements would be made against the categories of expenditures indicated in Table C. The proceeds of
the Loan are expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The project is expected to be completed
by December 2004 and the Loan Closing Date would be June 2005.
Retroactive Financing: At negotiations, the need for retroactive financing of up to US$5.5 million (10%
of the Loan amount) would be reviewed and agreed for eligible expenditures incurred since March 15, 1999
(but not earlier than 12 months before Loan signing).
Expenditures                  Amounts           Financing %
1. Subprojects                 38.0                75 %
2. Consultant Services          13.5               75 %
3. Operating Costs &             1.5               75 %
Office Equipment
4. Front-end fee                0.55
5. Caps and Collars Premia       0.0
6. Unallocated                  1.45
Total                           55.0
Use of statements of expenditures (SOE-s):
SAGAR has begun to take steps to adapt its financial management system in line with the Bank's new
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). Conversion to LACI-style disbursement is expected
following the first year of project implementation. During the transition period, disbursements would be
based on traditional procedures. Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used for: (a) all subprojects;
(b) service contracts for consultancies, auditing and training valued below US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individual consultants; and (c) operating costs. Documentation supporting SOEs would be
retained by SAGAR at the central level and by the SAGAR delegations in every state, and made available
for examination by Bank staff as requested. All other disbursement requests would be accompanied by full
documentation. Under LACI, use of SOEs would be replaced by a system whereby disbursements
(including the amount of the Special Account) would be granted to SAGAR on the basis of a set of
agreed-upon quarterly reports. Those reports will detail the financial, physical and procurement activities
(historical and planned) under the project. The new monitoring system recently developed by SAGAR
would be adjusted to be LACI compliant, so as to enable the regular production of Project Management
Reports (PMRs).
Special account:
Payments from the Loan proceeds would be administered by the financial agent from a Special Account.
The Special Account would be maintainedi in US dollars in Banco de Mexico. Under traditional
disbursement procedures, the authorized allocation, sufficient for financing four months of eligible
expenditures, would be US$3.0 million. Under PMR-based disbursement, the maximum amount that can be
on deposit is US$10.0 million. The Special Account would be audited in conjunction with the annual
financial audit of the project.
- 60 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL II
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  8                        9
First Bank mission (identification)      09/25/98                    09/25/98
Appraisal mission departure              06/20/99                    07/08/99
Negotiations                             10/10/99                    10/18/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            03/15/2000
Prepared by:
SAGAR - Sub-secretariat for Rural Development.
Jose Antonio Mendoza - Sub-secretary for Rural Development
Eduardo Perez Haro - Director General, Regional Programs
Javier Cesena - Director, Regional Programs
Antonio Leal - Vice-Director, Regional Planning
Rafael Garcia - Vice-Director, Technical Cooperation
Preparation assistance:
Collegio de la Frontera Sur (Estudio Socio-economico y ambiental - Chiapas); Technologia y Proyectos
para el Desarrollo (Estudio Socio-economico - Guerrero); Universitad Autonoma Metropolitana (Estudio
Ambiental - Guerrero); Consultores Especializados en Desarrollo Economico y Social SC (Estudio
Socio-economico - Puebla); Universitad Autonoma Metropolitana (Estudio Ambiental - Puebla); Jose
Valencia (Estudio Socio-economico - Michoacan); Leonardo Sasso (Estudio Ambiental - Michoacan);
Desarrollo Empresarial Agropecuario SC (Estudio Socio-economico - Altiplano, San Luis Potosi); Geosera
(Estudio Ambiental - Altiplano, San Luis Potosi); Mario Saul (Estudio Ambiental - Paine, San Luis
Potosi); Roberto Escalante (Estudio Socio-economico - Pame, San Luis Potosi); Plantea Consultores
(Estudio Socio-economico - Veracruz); Instituto Veracruzano de Ecologia (Estudio ambiental - Veracruz).
Jubileo (Evaluation Oaxaca); Desarrollo Comunitario AC (Evaluation San Luis Potosi and Hidalgo);
Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion Rural (Evaluation Veracruz).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
-       Name                                S -  -   2-    i. peciality.       
Adolfo Brizzi                     Sector Leader/Task Manager
Norman Piccioni                   Economist/Co-Task Manager
Jorge Franco                      Social Development Specialist
Lea Braslavsky                    Procurement Specialist
Christian Pieri                   Natural Resource Management Specialist
Victor Ordonez                    Financial Management Specialist
Carlos Cuevas                     Rural Finance Specialist
Mark Austin                       Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Ferenc Molnar                     Senior Legal Counsel
Salomon Nahmad                    Anthropologist
Takamasa Akiyama                  Commodity Specialist
- 61 -



Cn'stina Tunon                     Staff assistant
Rene Ruivivar                      Peer Reviewer
Mark Wilson                        Peer Reviewer
Robert Crown                       Quality Enhancement Team
- 62 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan available in the Project Files
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Chiapas - Norte, Altos, Selva, Sierra, Canadas
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
Puebla - Sierra Norte
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
Veracruz - Zongolica
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
Guerrero - Alto Balsas
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
Michoacan - Meseta/Purepecha, Tierra Caliente
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
San Luis Potosi - Pame
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
San Luis Potosi - Altiplano
Socio-economic, production, and financial analysis
Environmental Analysis
C. Other
Project Financial and Economic Analysis
The Coffee Program and its Integration in the Marginal Areas Program
*Including electronic files
- 63 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL 11
Difference between exPeete-
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions          disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                 IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Ori   Frm Revd
Number of Closed Projects: 145
MX-PE-48505     1999 NAFIN                        AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                    444.45        0.00        0.00      366.39    -23.a6      0.00
MX-PE-7610      1999 BANOBRAS                     FOVI RESTRUCTURING                      505.05        0.00        0.00      505.05    105.05      0.00
MX-PE-40199     1998 MEXICAN GOVERNMENT           BASIC EDC. DEV.                         115.00        0.00        0.00      115.00     19.98      0.00
MX-PE-44531     1998 GOM                          KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                      300.00        0.00        o.0o      290.00      2.00      0.00
MX-PE-49895     199s MINISTRY OF FINANCE          HIGHER ED. FINANCING                    180.20        0.0o        0.00      180.20     15.78      0.00
MX-PE-55061     1998 BANOBRAS                     HLTH.SYSTEM REF. TA                     25.00         0.00        0.00       23.00      6.40      0.00
MX-PE-7711      1998 NAFIN                        RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                    47.00         0.00        0.00       43.40     11.40      0.00
MX.PE-7720      1998 BANOBRAS                     HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM                    700.00        0.00        0.00      350.00      0.00      0.00
MX-PE-7700      1997 GOVT OF ME)QCO               COMMUNITY FORESTRY                       15.00        000         0.00       11.85      2.86      0.00
MX-PE-7726      1997 GOVERNMENT                   AQUACULTURE                              40.00        0.00        0.00       39.13      7.03      o.00
MX-PE-7732      1997 GOVERNMENT                   RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.                     30.00        0.00        0.00       28.31     24.81      9.11
MX-PE-7689      199  NAFiN                        BASC HLTH II                           310.00         0.00        0.00      181.04     64.05     44.05
MX-PE-7713      1996 GOM                          WATFRRESOURCESMANA                      186.50        0.00        0.00      153.79     31.48      0.00
MX.PE.34161     1995 NAFINSA                      FINANCIALSECT,A.                         37.40        0.00        0.00       1004      -3.75     10.05
MX-PE-34490     1995 NAFIN                        TECI-I EDUrrRAING                      265.00         0.00       30.00      150.02    155.45     -279
MX-PE-7702      1995 SEDESOL                      SECOND DECENTRALZTN                     500.00        0.00        0.00      144.08    144.12    106.70
MX-PE-7612      1994 BANOBRAS                     SOUEDWASTEII                            200.00        0.00      193.06        1.48     -4.46      1.47
MX-PE-7701      1994 NAFIN                        ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                   200.00         0.00       30.00       72.03     87.02     12.02
MX-PE-7707      1994 BANOBRAS                     WATER/SANIT 11                          350.00        0.00        0.00      171.67    171.65      0.00
MX-PE-7710      1994 BANOBRAS                     N. BOIRDER I ENVIRONM                   368.00        0.00      273.40       65.36    299.96     38.66
MX-PE-7725      1994 NAFIN                        PRIMKIEDUC.I1                           412.00        0.00       40.00      141.03    181.07     70.79
MX.PE-764       1993 BANOBRAS                     MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                    200.00        0.00       23.00      115.24    119.18     25.28
MX-PE-7723      1993 BANOBRAS                     HWYRFHB&SAFETY                          480.00        0.00        0.00      115.91     48.90      0.00
Total:   5,910.60        0.00      589.46    3,274.02   1,466.12    315.34
Active         Closed
Projects        Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):    2,359.29          21,397.50       23,756.79
of which has been repaid:         91.17      12,380.55       12,471.72
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    5,579.95           9,086.50       14,666.45
Amount sold:          0.00           92.34           92.34
of which repaid:         0.00           92.34           92.34
Total Undisbursed:    3,274.02             69.52        3,343.54
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 64 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval       Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1984/87/94/96     Metalsa                        0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00
1988/91/92/93/95    Apasco                      16.80    0.00    0.00   75.20   16.80    0.00    0.00   75.20
1988/94/95        Sigma                          0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1989              Grupo FEMSA                    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00
1990              Petrocel                       2.60    1.20    0.00    1.40    2.60    1.20    0.00    1.40
1990/91           Condumex                       3.10    0.00    0.00    1.27    3.10    0.00    0.00    1.27
1990/92/96        BANAMEX                       108.75    0.00    0.00   72.39   50.68    0.00    0.00   72.39
1991              Vitro Flotado                  8.26    0.00    0.00    3.45    8.26    0.00    0.00    3.45
1991/96           GIBSA                         24.34   10.00    0.00   81.86   24.34   10.00    0.00   81.86
1992              Banorte-SABROZA                3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Toluca Toll Road               7.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.58    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/91           Vitro                          0.00    0.00   10.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.17    0.00
1992/93/95196/99    Grupo Posadas               23.84    5.00   20.00   31.96   23.84    5.00   20.00   31.96
1992/96/97/98     GrupoProbursa                  0.00    0.21    10.16    0.00    0.00    0.21    10.16    0.00
1993              Derivados                      4.40    0.00    0.00    6.02    4.40    0.00    0.00    6.02
1993              GIDESA                         8.75    0.00    8.00   12.75    8.75    0.00    8.00   12.75
1993              GOTM                           1.19    0.00    0.00    0.88    1.19    0.00    0.00    0.88
1993              Masterpak                      4.80    0.00    0.00    6.48    4.80    0.00    0.00    6.48
1994              CTAPV                          4.18    2.53    0.00    0.00    4.18    2.53    0.00    0.00
1994              Interceramic                  10.00    6.00    0.00    7.00   10.00    6.00    0.00    7.00
1994/96/98        Aurum-Heller                   0.00    0.00    2.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.80    0.00
1995/96           Baring Mex. FMC                0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    0.00
1995/99           Baring Venture                 0.00    0.00   11.82    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.27    0.00
1995/99           Mexplus Puertos                0.00    0.00    4.45    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.45    0.00
1996              GIRSA                         30.00   10.00    0.00  115.00   30.00   10.00    0.00  115.00
1996              NEMAK                          0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Banco Bilbao MXC              80.00   30.00    0.00    0.00   76.10   30.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Comercializadora               3.50    2.50    0.00    7.50    3.50    2.50    0.00    7.50
1997              Fondo Chiapas                  0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00
1997              GrupoMinsa                    20.00    0.00   10.00   30.00   20.00    0.00   10.00   30.00
1997              TMA                            4.87    0.00    0.00    9.60    4.87    0.00    0.00    9.60
1997/98           Gen. Hipotecaria               0.00    0.00    3.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00
1998              Ayvi                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              CIMA Mexico                    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00
1998              CIMdA Puebla                   7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Forja Monterrey               13.00    0.00    3.00   13.00   13.00    0.00    3.00   13.00
1998              Grupo Calidra                  12.00    0.00    6.00   10.00   12.00    0.00    6.00   10.00
1998              Grupo Sanfandila              10.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    6.67    0.00    0.00    3.33
1998              MeridaIII                     30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   21.60    0.00    0.00   53.25
1998              Punta Langosta                 4.00    0.00    1.00    7.00    2.76    0.00      1.00    4.84
Total Portfolio:      455.96   79.44  115.51  571.71  367.52   79.44   103.99  547.18
Approvals Pending Commnitnent
FY Approval       Company                         Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 65 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project - APL II
Latin    UoDer-                                           913199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.   income         Development dlamond'
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                           95.9        502        588                   Life expectancy
GNP ner canita (Atlas method. US$1                       3.970      3.940      4.860
GNP (Atlas method USS billions)                          38n 9       1 W75     2 R62
Averaoe annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%)                                              1.8        1 6        1.4
Labor forcef%)                                             26          23         2.0     GNP                                 Gross
Most recent estimate Ilatest vear available. 1992-98?                                     per                                primary
Povertv (/D of oooulatfion below national oovertv linel I                                 c
Urban oooulation (V. of total oooulation)                   74         75         77
Life excectanev at birth (veers)                            72         70         70
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live births)                    31         32         27
Child malnutrition '% of children under 5)                  14          R                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water /% of Dooulation)                      95         75         79
Illiteracv (54 of Dooulation aoe t5-4)                      10         13         11
Gross orimarv enrollment f% of school-aee oooulation)      115        113        108               Mexico
Male                                                     116                                     Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                   113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratlos'
GDP fUSS billions)                               87.4    140 2      401 7      410.3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                   21.6      19.2       26 0       24.4
Fynorts nf nonds and sarvireAqGrP                 A 8     1.85       30 3       31 7                       Trade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                       20.6     25.3       26.0       22.4
Gross national savinas/GDP                       18.2      21 8       24 1      20.6
CG,rrAnt aconunt halannp.l3P                     -2 2      3( n       -1 9       -3 8     Dmsi
Interest navments/GDP                             1.8      5.5         21        2 0      Domestic                        Investment
Total debtlGDP                                   35.7     78.1       37.3       390       Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                       574      40.1        324       18.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                            36.0       36 2
Present value of debtfexoorts                                       110 3      106.0
Indebtedness
197747   1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
laveraae annual arowth)
GDP                                     2.2       2.9      6.8         4 8        4.8                Mexico
GNP oer caoita                          0.1       0 5      6.0         29        29                Upper-middle-income group
Exoorts of aoods and services           9.4      12 3     10.8         9 7       689
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1S87       1997       19S8       Growth rates ot output and Investment I%)
f% of GDP) 
Aoriculture                                      10.2       8,6        5.7        5.4     40
Industrv                                         30 7     35.9        28 5      29 1      120
Manufacturino                                  22.4      25.7       21.4       219        o
Services                                         59.1     55.5        65 8      65 5      -        3    S4  \/             57   ge
Private consumDtion                             69.6      65.9       64 1       68.2      4
General oovernment consumotion                    9.8      8.8         9 9       9 4GDI                             -GDP
ImDorts of aoods and services                     9.6     13.4        30 4      33 2
1977-87  1988-98        1997      1998       Growth rates of exports and Imports (%1
faveraae annual orowlh I
Aanculture                                        2.2       1.6        0,2        0.5     40
Industrv                                          2.7      3.5         9 3       6.6
Manufacturino                                   2.3       3.9       10 0        7.4     2t
Services                                          21       2.7         6.4        4.4
Private consumotion                               2.2       2.5        6.4        6.4      o      93   94            9     97 9.
General oovernment consumotion                    5 2       1.8        2 9       -1.3
Gross domestic investment                        -4.6       41        25 0        8.4     20
Imoorts of aoods and services                    -1.3     12.1        22.8       14.2              -     Exports      ClImports
Gross national oroduct                            2.6       2.4        7 9        4 7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds shnw fnior kev indicators in the Pns ntrv (in hnlcll cnmnared with its incnmA-arnijn averanA If data are missinn the diamnnd will
hR innomrnlAt
- 66 -



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    ..   131.8        20.6      15.9      s    
Implicit GDP deflator                            25.6    137.3       17.7      13.8     20
Government finance
(%. of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                     ..    29.5       23.0      20.6              93    94    66    98    97    56
Current budget balance                             ..   -10.3         3.1       2.3                     GDP deflator    e  CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..   -15.0        -0.7      -1.3
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..  22,093    110,431   117,500       150sooo
Oil                                              ..   8,630      11,323     7,147
Agriculture                                            1 ,543     3,828     3,954      100000
Manufactures                                     ..  11,344      94,802   105,933
Total imports (cif)                                ..  13,305    109,808   125,242       _0, Di
Consumergoods                                    ..      768      9,326    11,108      1soso1111
Intermediate goods                               ..   9,907      85,366    96,805
Capital goods                                    ..    2,631     15,116    17,329              9    3 9    6 9    7 s
Exnort orice index (1995= 100)                              93        101        99
Imoort orice index (1995=100)                               80        101       103                 *Exporls       *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                                  115        10n        CiS
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
ISS millions)  1977  1987  1997  1998   [Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
fUSS millions)I
Exports of goods and services                  7,792   27,509    121,701   129,427 o
Imports of goods and services                  7,665   18,387    121,608   137,729
Resource balance                                 127    9,121          94    -8,302      2
Net income                                     -2,151    -6,801    -12,790   -13,497
Net current transfers                             88    1,919       5,247     6,012      4
Current account balance                        -1,936    4,239     -7,448   -15 786      - 
Financing items (net)                          2,558    1,861      17,942    17,923
Changes in net reserves                         -622   -6,100    -10,494    -2,137       r1
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (US$ millions)                  12.590     28 815    29.032
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS)              2.26E-2      1.4        8.8       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions) ICompositlon of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          31,179  109,459    149,690   159,962                             A: 11,514
IBRD                                         1,374    7,347      11,356    11,514            G:28,507                C.11,514
IDA                                              0         0          0         0
Total debt service                              4,715   12,083     42,453    26,294                                        D: i2,863
IBRD                                           152    1,072       2,102     2,027
IDA                                              0         0          0         0                                         E ,7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  9        75         29
Official creditors                             299      888      -4,563       129
Private creditors                            4,407    2,891       6,003     3,943
Foreign direct investment                      556    3,246      12,478    10,238
Portfolio equity                                 0         0      3,215      -666
World Bank program                                                                                     F: 93,573
Commitments                                    162    1,695        530      2,212      A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                  202      983        995      1,986      B-IDA      D- Other mulilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            50      567       1,311     1,257      _                    __
Netflows                                       152      416       -316        729
Interest payments                              102      505        791        769
Net transfers                                   50       -89     -1,107       -41
Development Economics                                                                                                         913/99
- 67 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Mexico - Rural Development in Marginal Areas
Characterization of the Indigenous Population
1. General Trends
1.    In the last two decades a significant fall in the standards of living and income of small rural
producers has been recorded, specifically those pertaining to indigenous populations in marginal areas. It is
a trend related to the general stagnation of agricultural productivity and income. This situation reflects the
combination of different behaviors for vatious types of producers in different agricultural regions and
production patterns, and their capacity to access technical assistance, financial resources, production
factors and output markets. Advances made in some segments of commercial agricultural production are
also accompanied by important setbacks in the production and productivity of small rural and particularly
indigenous producers.
2.     Several elements help explain this deterioration in the production and standards of living of the
smallholder and the indigenous producers: i) the ecological fragility of their resources faced with a
continuous increase in demographic pressure; ii) a deterioration of the social capital combined with the
withdrawal of the institutional presence in the rural sector and the limited access to basic services,
technological shortfall, and limited incorporation of the cultural perspective in programs that have had a
tradition of paternalist support; and iii) limited savings and investment capabilities and extreme dependence
on intermediation services to access the market.
1.1.   Ecology and Demography
3 .    For centuries most of the indigenous communities maintained a remarkable relationship with their
natural environment. The "milpa Lacandona" in the rain forests of the southeast, the "chinamnpa" in the
Valley of Mexico, and other production practices well-suited to their natural environment, demonstrated
exemplary relationships between man and nature which allowed family and community subsistence on a
sustainable basis. However, those indigenous practices, combining respect of the environment, religious
rituals and celebrations, that permitted to maintain a remarkable balance, are undergoing important changes
in most of the marginal rural zones.
4.     Possibly the most important element in the modification of this balance comes from  the
demographic growth. The country's indigenous population is experiencing high growth rates which the rest
of Mexican society has since left behind. The notable advances made in preventive health, hygienic birth
practices, vaccination programs, access to drinking water, and other positive changes in health behavior,
have not been followed by a modification in the indigenous perceptions of the convenience of family
planning. Children continue to be a source of help in productive and household activities from a very early
age, and the best insurance for the parents' old age.
5.     Such demographic growth results in the fragmentation of the family plot and the colonization of
less suitable lands: hillsides, thin and unfertile soils, tropical forests. Under these conditions, slash-and-bum
agriculture no longer allows the natural recovery of the soil, and the traditional practices, when applied on
unsuitable lands, give way to erosion and loss of fertility. Migration remains the only valve to escape
poverty.
- 68 -



6.     The sale of labor on commercial farms, the commercialization strategies of agrochemical traders,
or some rural development programs, have put indigenous producers in touch mainly with mono-production
systems and technical packages that are alien to their traditional productive practices and resources.
Peasant and indigenous farming is usually based on a high degree of diversification, with techniques that
require minimum monetary expenditures and allow for a more efficient use of family working capabilities
throughout the year. Production is usually aimed toward food security, complemented with some
commercial crops or activities.
7.     The application of ancient indigenous techniques to environments other than those for which they
were developed does not help reconcile the use of natural resources beyond their ability to recover. This
generates an ecological deterioration that reduces the production capacity and the possibilities of the
population to support itself on the natural resource base to which they have access.
1.2. Institutional Withdrawal and Social Organization.
8.     Various government mechanisms and structures acted for decades to regulate prices, distribute
inputs, supply credit at institutional rates, buy crops at guaranteed prices, provide technical assistance,
administer irrigation districts, supply basic staples, and regulate commercialization margins in remote rural
zones. They all formed part of a wide range of market stabilization instruments.
9.     Agricultural producers created organizations specifically adapted to relate with these mechanisms
and institutions. Farmers and indigenous producers created different organizations for the purpose of
relating to the many institutional "offers". Leadership was often built from upward based on the ability to
deliver to the social base the various government services and economic support, traditionally based on
all-subsidy schemes.
10.    Large farmers organizations of a political nature could act as state interlocutors in the definition of
policies and as brokers in the allocation of funds to specific groups and regions. Among the large political
organizations are: Confederacion Nacional Campesina, Confederacion Campesina Independiente,
Confederaci6n Cardenista Campesina, Consejo Nacional de Pueblos Indigenas, Movimiento Nacional
Indigena, uni6n Nacional de Organizaciones Regionales Campesinas Auton6mas, Frente Nacional de
Pueblos Indigenas.
11.    All these services and aids were presumed to be permanent functions of the govemrnent. They also
crowded-out the progressive and self-regulating intervention of private services. Moreover, in this scheme
of organization, self-generated economic organizations aimed at providing commercialization services,
technical assistance, the acquisition of inputs and financing mechanisms, remained weak.
12.   The relatively rapid government and institutional withdrawal, at the beginning of the 90s, from the
distribution of agricultural inputs, technical assistance, institutional credit, price controls, and regulation of
profit margins in the commercialization of crops, created an important vacuum in the organizational
structure of the rural sector. Such vacuum was to a large degree occupied by new regional and local agents
that strengthened their hold on the commercialization of crops, the supply of inputs and consumer goods,
creating preferential and monopolistic channels of intermediation and maintaining a relatively strong grip
on the commercial development of these regions.
13.   Notwithstanding, there are a number of examples of organizations which have been able to
establish themselves and develop commercial activities and bargaining power. Several coffee producers
- 69 -



organizations have been able to establish quality controls for organic coffee and export mainly to Europe.
(Examples: Coordinadora estatal de Productores de Cafe, Uni6n de Ejidos de la Selva). There are also
important ethnic organizations some of them originally created around the indigenous struggles for land.
(Example: ISMAM, a "Mam" organizationl crated in 1988 that now has its own agriculture school and
includes teaching of "Mam" language and ancestral handcraft techniques). In the state of "San Luis
Potosi", organized orange producers created their own commercialization firm ("Empresa integradora ") in
an attempt to escape from the grip exerted by the intermediaries.
1.3    Modification of the Market Context.
14.   The indigenous and rural communities today have to face a new market context that no longer
automatically accept their products and, as a consequence, induce inefficiency in the use of their productive
resources. A large part of the diversified productive activities (backyard animals and related products,
handicrafts, tanning, leather work, footwear, textiles, hats, ceramics, building materials, food, candy and
drinks, medicinal preparations) that characterized rural towns are paralyzed due to changes in their
relationship with the market. These changes can be seen from two perspectives: i) the interaction between
small producers within local markets, and ii) the relationship with the national and globalized market.
15.   A large part of the rural and indigenous production is traditionally oriented towards the direct
satisfaction of the needs of the large families, which are further enlarged by ritual fonns of parenthood
("compadrazgo"). Also, the intra community and regional commercialization of goods has been favoring
the satisfaction of the community needs, the ethnic group and the region. Effective distribution mechanisms
existed within the indigenous groups.
16.   Such commercialization mechanismrs were based on the reciprocity of exchanges and, in a
complementary fashion, on forms of solidarity that provided food security in case of unforeseen events.
These forms of exchange were well suited to the conditions of the indigenous smallholders and provided a
market for their products.
17.   In the last 25 years, a growing reorientation of rural consumption has taken place in favor of
products from "outside", mainly urban processed goods. This modernization of consumption, had a
negative impact on the commercialization possibilities of a wide range of products generated by small rural
producers. An example of this would be the ireduction of animal backyard production (pigs and goats, for
example), pottery making, textiles, cloth, construction materials and other activities.
18.   One of the groups most affected by the modifications of the economic context are the small
peasants and the indigenous producers: a) the products for the domestic market face conditions of falling
prices and high brokerage costs due to the segmentation and lack of competition among commercialization
channels; b) the production for local exchange, usually more environmentally friendly, is declining; and c)
the modification of the consumption patterns leads to higher demand for monetary income. Faced with a
falling income and higher monetary needs, savings and investment opportunities are dim, also inducing the
farmer into a risk-averse attitude.
2. Backeround on Indizenous People.
19.   Cultural plurality in Mexico, and particularly in the new regions proposed for the second phase of
the Project is associated to the persistence of the mesoamerican cultures as expressed in the indigenous
communities of the Chol, Lacandon, Mame, Mioch, Motozintleco, Nahuatl, Otomi (RihaN), Purepecha,
Tojolabal, Totonaca, Tseltal, Tzotzil and Zoque people. Besides, there are in Chiapas several indigenous
- 70 -



groups from Guatemala which took refuge in Mexico: Ixil, Jacalteco, Kanjobal, Kekchi and Quiche.
About 9,000 people from these groups intend to remain in Chiapas permanently.
20.   Most of these populations are part of longstanding societies that aim at continuing their historical
existence as part of the Mexican society, with their own identity and in the territory from where they
originated. Their communities are usually very disperse and located in mountainous or arid areas of
difficult transport and communication.
21.   In the last 20 years, indigenous people's demographic growth has been higher than the rest of the
Mexican society, particularly in the poorest rural areas. It has to a large extent been accompanied by
increasing pressures to migrate out of their original communities to three main destinations: the United
States, big and medium Mexican cities, new rural lands through new colonizations and the expansion of the
agricultural frontier.
22.   A typical examnple of the latter case, is the migration to the "Selva Lacandona" (Lacandona tropical
forest), initiated since the fifties by the Chol, Tzotzil, Tojolabal, Tzeltal and Zoque ethnic groups. It is also
worth noting that mixing among these groups, and with the "mestizo" people from other States meant that
the common language evolved towards Spanish and created a trend towards cultural change.
Table I
DEMOGRAPHIC GROWTH OF INDIGENOUS POPULATION (1970-1990)
Chiapas                                  5.5%                          4.7%
Guerrero                                 5.5%                          3.2%
Hidalgo                                  4.2%                          2.3%
San Luis Potosi                          5.8%                          3.0%
Veracruz                                 5.8%                          2.4%
Oaxaca                                   2.8%                          2.1%
Source: Luz Maria Valdes, Los indios en los censos de poblaci6n, Mexico, UNAM, 1995.
- 71 -



Table 2
INDIGENOUS POPULATION IN MEXICO BY ETHNIC GROUPS ("conteo de 1995")
Cakchikel                                      930                               388
Chol                                         190,188                           174,426
Cora                                          17,915                            17,318
Cuicateco                                     21,119                            15,259
Huasteco                                     188,617                           156,557
Huichol                                       35,995                           34,919
Ixil                                           267                               198
Jacalteco                                     1,503                              840
Kanjobal                                      18,035                            17,404
Kekchi                                        1,148                             1,059
Lacand6n                                       174                               82
Manie                                         27,633                            10,739
Mazateco                                     246,159                           215,043
Mixe                                         136,099                           119,363
Motozintleco                                   891                               318
NThuatI                                     2,171,761                         1,623,993
Otorni                                       603,178                           358,382
Pame                                          10,609                            9,089
Purepecha                                    174,068                           129,275
Quiche                                         612                               417
Tepehua                                       13,860                            10,764
Tojolabal                                     53,847                           46,687
Totonaca                                     354,081                           214,192
Tzeltal                                      374,388                           369,940
Tzotzil                                      354,574                           325,916
Zoque                                         71,688                            55,543
- 72 -



3.    Considerations Related to Proiect Design
3.1    Overall strategy and design
23.   Due to the fact that indigenous people represent most of the Project's beneficiaries, the Project as a
whole is considered an "indigenous people development plan" for the purpose of OD 4.20. The Project does
not include any relocation of populations, modification of property rights, especially on land, nor
infrastructure works.
24.   The information generated by the study "Indigenous Profiles", financed by the Bank, and which
covers, in greater details, the States of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Yucatan and the Huasteca, played an important
role in the preparation of the project and in gaining in-depth knowledge regarding the indigenous
communities. The official counterpart of the study is the National Indigenous Institute (INI), and the Center
for Higher Research on Social Anthropology (Centro de Investigaciones Superiores en Antropologia
Social-CIESAS). As part of this work, a Geographic Information System has been established and posted
on the Internet which provides a description and detailed location of the different ethnic groups.
(www.oikos.unam.mx/peffiles).
25.   Each one of the Project's regions carried out an assessment of the socioeconomic situation, of the
production systems and technical packages, and of the environmental impact. The socioeconomic analysis
includes a description of the productive activities and customary forns of organization (social capital) of
the region's indigenous population. The teams that made these studies included an anthropologist or
sociologist with experience in ethnic aspects of rural development.
26.   The implementation of the Project in each region responds to the demand expressed at two levels:
i) communities that decide to participate and present community development plans, approved in a
community assembly, and ii) direct beneficiaries who individually or as a group request support for
productive sub-projects. Participation is on a purely voluntary basis, and the communities and producers
who do not want to participate will not be affected.
27.   A Sustainable Development Regional Council (CRDS) is formned in each region with a balanced
participation of relevant Government agencies, farmers' organizations, community representatives, or
independent structures which represent farmers' interests. CRDSs are responsible for the discussion of
regional priorities, pursue coordination efforts of all stakeholders around the implementation of
Government programs, and analyze and approve micro-projects or community development plans
submitted by the beneficiaries.
28.   Community diagnostics and community development plans, approved by the community
assemblies, should represent the central mechanism for the determination of priorities and the allocation of
funds. Local "promoters", appointed by the communities themselves, represent an important link with the
technical assistance and an important vehicle in sustaining project activities at the local level. These
elements are part of a strategy to strengthen social capital and ownership of Project's beneficiaries. A
spokesman (vocal) will also be appointed at the state level, to represent the Program when budget priorities
and implementation issues are discussed.
29.   The Program promotes the hiring of private technical assistance firms (despachos) to carry out the
following two main functions: i) coordinate the work of the field technicians to provide support to the
groups and communities in the preparation and implementation of the diagnostic work, the development of
- 73 -



community action plans and micro-projects, and ii) provide assistance to and play the role of technical
secretariat of the CRDSs. It is believed that private firms can have greater flexibility in the selection and
management of field agents, can have better access to the required skills including a greater emphasis on
social and cultural issues and to those agents that speak the local indigenous dialect. They can also be more
effectively evaluated on the base of their performance.
30.    Support for technological improvement gives the preference to technologies which are compatible
with the diversity of the traditional farming system and with cultural preferences, and is sustainable in
regard to the natural environment. The project promotes the production and the use of organic material.
Specific restrictions exist for extensive livestock raising, activities that may induce deforestation, and
coffee with no shadow.
31.    As part of the annual evaluation studies, the project contemplates field surveys and beneficiaries'
feedback, assessment on social participation, participatory workshops, rapid assessments, interviews with
representatives of civil society organizations, and from federal and state institutions.
3.2.    The intemrated approach of the project.
32.    The Project presents an integrated approach aiming at responding to a wide variety of demands for
support from individuals, groups and comnmunities. It can support demand for agricultural tools, inputs,
technical assistance, community works and activities, small animals, improved seeds and plants,
transformation equipment, initiation of small businesses or support for farmers' organizations in the
establishment of commercialization services, promotion of self-sustaining micro-financing mechanisms,
etc....However, the project tries to ensure consistency and relevancy of the various requests by pursuing
the development of a shared vision in the context of regional development priorities and addressing the
whole array of rural development issues at the level of the small-holders and of the communities. In this
respect, it promotes the preparation of participatory diagnostic studies that are meant to provide a
framework within which to develop individual or group investment strategies and the intervention of the
technical assistance.
33.    The Project includes the promotion of diversification in a way which is compatible with rural and
indigenous practices. It also promotes a more effective integration of the production-marketing chain at the
community and at the regional level, the lowering of the transaction costs and a better participation in local
and regional markets. This should not only improve monetary income and the reactivation of self-sustained
economic development, but also the level of food security.
4.     The Leeal Framework
34.    The main legal dispositions and laws related to indigenous people are:
*   The first paragraph of Article 4 of the National Constitution of the United Mexican States
indicates that: The Mexican nation haLs a multi-cultural composition which takes its origin from its
indigenous people. The Law will protect and promote the development of their languages, cultures,
uses, customs, resources and specific forms of social organization, and shall guarantee their
members the effective access to the jujrisdiction of the State. In the proceedings and trials related to
agrarian issues, to which they are party, their legal traditional practices and customs ("usos y
costumbres") shall be taken into account in the terms established by the Law.
*   Article 27 of the Constitution specifies the rights of possession of the indigenous communities
- 74 -



("bienes comunales") and establishes the possibility of converting common lands into communal
assets, which are untransferable and cannot be alienated.
*  The agrarian law protects the rights of the indigenous communities over their lands.
*  The Mexican Government has ratified Accord 167 of the International Labor Organization which
entirely refers to indigenous people and which thus acquired the effect of a national law.
*   In 1948, a law created the National Indigenous Institute (Instituto Nacional Indigenista - INI) for
the protection, defense and development of indigenous communities in Mexico.
*  The Mexican Govermment has ratified the Convention which created the Interamerican Indigenous
Institute (Instituto Indigena Interamericano) based in Mexico. Its function is to protect and
contribute to the development of indigenous communities.
*   The Mexican Govermnent is member of the Ibero-American Indigenous Fund (Fondo Indigena
Ibero-Americano) based in Bolivia and promoted by the Inter-American Development Bank.
5.    The Tareet Population.
35.   The Project aims at raising the standards of living of the poorest small rural producers in marginal
areas, through the increase of their agricultural productivity, improvement of their food security and the
development of their social organization. It is generally admitted that the poorest people live in rural areas
and that, among them, the indigenous communities show the greatest incidence of extreme poverty.
36.   The Project focuses its attention on regions and communities where a majority of indigenous people
live or people with indigenous ancestry. It should be pointed out that the identification of the indigenous
population in Mexico is a complex issue. To start with, official statistics consider that in 1995 the
indigenous population was composed of between 6.8 million (count made by the Instituto Nacional de
Estadistica Geografia e informatica - INEGIJ) and 10 million people (the National Indigenous Institute -
INI). Some sources raise these figures to 15 million or more inhabitants.
37.   The problem is not of statistical technique, but rather of definition. The most limited definition
identifies only those who speak pre-hispanic languages. Another approach includes the populations who,
even without speaking those languages, have indigenous fore-fathers, define themselves as indigenous, keep
elements of the cosmovision, production practices, ritual and celebrations, ways to access natural
resources, food, dresses, housing, health and other characteristics associated with indigenous cultures.
38.   It is worth noting that for centuries a continuous process of change of the indigenous culture took
place towards the religion, language, forms of property, production patterns, models of consumption and, in
general, the symbols of identity of the Mexican nation as a whole. It is an on-going process which generates
a number of "nuances" in the transition between the indigenous tradition and the ethnic and cultural
integration ("mestizaje"). One of its aspects is the rapid increase of the bilingual indigenous population
(who also speaks Spanish) and the abandoning of the indigenous languages by the most recent generations,
which understand without speaking the language, or which have lost all connections to the language of their
grandfathers.
39.   For these reasons, the number of speakers of indigenous languages should be considered as an
important indicator of the indigenous presence in the region, but not the element that allows quantification
- 75 -



of its real magnitude, which is usually much higher. A common situation in many communities is that
grandparents still speak an indigenous language whilst the children and teenagers no longer understand it.
Many communities and regions can be considered mostly or totally indigenous despite the fact that the
number of inhabitants who speak the native language is only a minority.
40.    One case in point is the "Paine" and "Altiplano" areas of San Luis Potosi, where only a minority of
the local population is reported speaking an indigenous language. In general, although most of the project
beneficiaries in marginal areas are considered to be indigenous populations, it would not be advisable to
establish a distinction in the definition of the target population between indigenous and non-indigenous
people.
41.   Moreover, as part of the targeting rnechanisms of the project it is required that beneficiaries belong
to communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants, possess no more than 10 hectares of non irrigated land and
no more than 10 heads of cattle or their equivalent in small livestock. These criteria increase the access of
indigenous populations to the project.
42.    The proposal for extension of the second phase of the Program includes the following regions:
Table 3
Chiapas         Norte            Region's total population: 156,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 81,000
Main ethnic groups: Tzotzil, Chol & Zoque
The population which defines itself as indigenous is much
greater than the actual speakers of a native language and covers
virtually all of the 120,000 inhabitants of villages with less than
2,500 inhabitants.
Chiapas         Sierra           Region's total population: 158,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 6,400
Mai.n ethnic groups: Mocho, Tojolabal, Mame y Motozintleco.
There are other ethnic groups of Guatemalan origin who arrived
as refugees: Cakchikel, Chuj, Ixil, Jacalteco, Kanjobal, Kekchi.
This population lost its original language due to the high degree
of seasonal migration, greater communication and mixing among
themselves  as  well  as  with  "mestizo"'  population.
Notwithstanding, most of them have indigenous ancestry, define
themselves as such in their main organizations and keep
indigenous traditions. The 143,000 inhabitants of villages with
less than 2,500 inhabitants are indigenous.
- 76 -



Michoacan       Purepecha       Region's total population: 654,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 91,600
Main ethnic groups: Purepecha
The indigenous population is bigger than just the speakers of the
purepecha language. While the total population of the region
reflects the existence of several medium size "mestizo" cities, the
Purepecha population has a higher concentration in the
communities of less than 2,500 inhabitants.
Michoacan       Tierra Caliente   Region's total population: 246,600
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 600
Main ethnic groups: Purepecha
This is mostly a "mestizo" region with no significant indigenous
population, however, its condition of marginality is in several
aspects equivalent or more severe than the indigenous area of
Purepecha.
Guerrero        Alto Balsas     Region's total population: 138,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 38,600
Main ethnic groups: Nahuatl.
The indigenous population is identifiable in their communities
and is the focus of attention of the Program in the region.
Puebla          Sierra Norte    Region's total population: 836,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 285,000
Principal ethnic groups: Nahuatl, Totonaca, Otomi f2Vnha#u) &
Tepehua.
Most of the population conserve other ethnic characteristics.
The majority of the 556,000 inhabitants of villages with less
than 2,500 inhabitants are indigenous.
San Luis Potosi  Pame           Region's total population: 109,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 10,400
Main ethnic groups: Pame.
The Project focuses on identifiable Pame communities and
neighborhoods.
- 77 -



San Luis Potosi  Altiplano       ]Region's total population: 309,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: None.
Mtain ethnic groups: Not identified.
The forced settlement and mixing of different itinerant ethnic
groups with other sedentary indigenous population, in order to
have a source of labor for mining work during colonial times,
led to the loss of the original languages. However, most of the
ancestors of the 171,000 inhabitants of villages with less than
2,500 inhabitants were local (Chichimeca) or immigrating (
Tiaxcalteca) indigenous population and live in conditions of
marginality.
Veracruz        Zongolica        Region's total population: 63,000
Population that speaks an indigenous language: 60,000
Main ethnic groups: Nahuatl.
Is a population which conserves all its ethnic characteristics to a
very high degree.
- 78 -



IBRD 30581
U N I T E D  S  T A T E  S O F  A M E R I C A
BAJA   :
30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30 :
S O   N             R  A
CALIFORNIA
_                   ,      j     E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C H I H U A H!4U A /                                                   ,MExICO
7<  ~~    ~~  >rwi/                                      ->                       RURAL ~~~MEXICO
BAJA                                 ?                                                                                            / ) (  ffi+ >, - RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN
BAJA K'' ' , \ 7 > \ \              COAHUILA                                      2              ?vi -            MARGINAL AREAS
CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                                                               PHASE   11
SUR                                -h       )                                                           <    '"1-                                           r   REGIONS IN OPERATION, PHASE II
2      )                    \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEON /                                          jjREGIONS IN OPERATIOJN, PHASE I
/4 "_ <1~'                                                      7 )    y ~ ' i '   i)   \    LEON 2   L r/     r     AREAS OF HIGH MARGINALITY
,\J  . 5O <% >                   ~ --          C      5       I .'  L.|-  AREAS OF VERY HIGH MARGINALITY
DURR40                          V                                4                                            RIVERS
.~ ~                                                               *--  NATIONAL CAPITAL
/   AALPAS
I                                          '~~~~~~~~~'                            ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
~~~~-T ~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-  '-t                                                              RE5GIueONALPINO5                            Source- CONAPO
I[7~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~REGION FAMEPtN
NA  ~~~~~~                          1 ~~~~~~K. ~~~SAN LUISPOTO5r
JCALIENTESKJ   I                     uO;REGION HUASUFECA                                                                  p       7
r /   4  SAN WIT PrT051
)OUANAJ~~~AT~~tVOY     NHx2                                              /4      VV,UCATAN    ,        <
0o-    100     20I 300         400/500KILOMETEfiS                                                                         LJ  E  k   fe   R  X   1    3           ;        <3                  A        V     t                BELIZE  '
judgmentonthrhBgafsetusofonyferrihry,oranyendorlemon;or < t ~-1 / t- RE' IONNRETION9SIE yA NORTE
OUN~                                                     Q UIN(TANA
acseplonae Of such boundaries.                                                            ,                                  = I            CHIAPAS                w      G U A T E MABA4LOA (y  - 
COOL)                                                                B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO
:'COIXIMA         Q              UE$ /                                            / REGIONZONOCA  CAMPECHE
T4Q5    BEG   rn        l &.                                                                      OcTOsERVERACRUZ  ME
MEM OCN                        <0u7'                                                                 TABASC4V-                      t
o  too  200    300    400   SGO~~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                                     Yi,u4?'<\                                  r                    
0                                                                                                                        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EINO>IIR      '1AX  A  5kBELIZE'
O0          1 RD        200           300 MILES                                                                                                                                      /' -
Thin .    producd by r. Mop SeirUn,it or The World Book,                                                                UEREION
onthis mop do -ot imply on the port of The World Book Drop, o-yREINOP                                                                                                                    ; 
i-dpw .. th. 1.g.fow, F -y t ... i-y,-, -y-d.--r.,                                                                              ~~~~CrH44 PUATEMALA"
REGION SIEA         I4HONDURAS
CHIA~A          
OCTORER 1099



