Report No. PID7726
Project Name                     Mexico-Rural Development in Marginal...
Areas - APL II
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           AA - Agriculture; AD - Rural Development
Project ID                       MXPE57530
Borrower(s)                      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Rural
Development (SAGAR) and state authorities
Environment Category             B
Date Initial PID Prepared        May 17, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           July 28, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 16, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
Agriculture has traditionally been a weak sector of Mexico's economy. In 1995
the agricultural GDP accounted for about 7 percent of total GDP, down from 19
percent in 1960. The sector's slow growth, coupled with stagnating
productivity and wages, has caused the population employed in the sector to
drop from 50 percent of total labor force to about 25 percent during the same
period. However, agriculture is expected to remain a significant economic
force, counting on a competitive commercial sector that uses modern
technology and achieves high yields, and on a productive potential largely
untapped, especially in rainfed areas.
Over the past ten years, Mexico's rural sector has been the subject of
sweeping reforms. They led to the emergence of a largely liberalized,
market-oriented, and private-sector-driven rural economy. The Government
switched from distortionary commodity price subsidies to direct income
transfers through the PROCAMPO program. It also embarked on the revision of
the regulatory framework for land tenure (1992) and a subsequent land titling
program (PROCEDE-1995), permitting ejido land transactions. The largely
successful transfer of irrigation districts to the water users has formed the
basis for the development of water markets. At the same time, the inclusion
of the agricultural sector in international trade negotiations through the
GATT and NAFTA agreements has created the basis for progressive exposure to
global forces and the additional adjustments that will follow. Finally, the
recent elimination of the tortilla subsidy has permitted to complete the
reform agenda in the maize sector by relinquishing the intervention of
CONASUPO.
These important reforms permitted the establishment of a sound policy
framework and fostered efficiency, but the performance of the sector has been
lagging and growth has stagnated. While commercial agriculture has largely
benefited from the reforms and has responded positively to the devaluation of
1994, the large ejido sector is going through significant adjustment,
increasingly integrating into the non-farm economy, diversifying income
sources, and pursuing greater labor market participation and migration.



Moreover, Mexico's rural poverty has kept widening in recent years,
especially among the rural indigenous populations. Two-thirds of the rural
population in the southern states is considered poor (compared with one-third
nationwide). Four out of every five indigenous people--who, as a group,
account for a third of Mexico's poor--are considered poor. The high incidence
and persistence of poverty among the indigenous population raises issues of
equity, social inclusion, and access to productive assets--markets, land,
labor, capital, infrastructure, and technology. If left unattended, this
inequity is likely to threaten the social balance of Mexican society by
polarizing the development agenda. It also challenges conventional government
programs to find ways to address indigenous issues in a fashion that is
consistent with cultural preferences, traditional community authority
structures, and local knowledge and needs.
The rural economy is poised for a sustainable enhancement of its productivity
and performance, but a number of second-generation reforms will need to be
pursued and constraints addressed to respond to the challenges posed by
international competition, the need to diversify the production pattern, and
the compelling responsibility to address equity issues. Promoting
agricultural productivity, fostering employment and micro-enterprise
development in rural areas while accompanying the progressive integration of
the sector to the rest of the economy, and addressing poverty issues, are the
main challenges of the rural development agenda. They underpin the following
main sector issues:
-       the incentive framework for the sector shows declining real prices and
negative nominal protection coefficients stemming from uncompetitive and
segmented markets, high marketing margins, storage, and transaction costs.
Also the low level of farmers organization hinders their capacity to
better integrate in the production-marketing chain and in the rest of the
economy;
-       improving the performance of financial services to the rural population
remains one of the major issues facing the development of the sector. The
shallowness of both formal and informal rural financial markets hinders
the modernization of the sector and movement to more lucrative, non-farm
activities;
-       the development of more efficient factor markets (land, water, and
warehousing) could also be fostered through a better regulatory and legal
framework, facilitating secure transactions and offering better collateral
possibilities; and
-       public programs should enhance smallholder access to basic services,
information, technology, and technical assistance and improve efficiency
in the delivery of basic infrastructure and, when necessary, of seed
capital for investments and innovation.
In line with the fundamental structural reforms that have taken place in the
sector over the past decade and the challenges still facing the rural agenda,
the strategy that the Government and the Bank would be pursuing in the sector
is oriented towards the following main lines: First, provide support to the
current policy orientation and its ensuing second generation initiatives to
(i) improve the efficiency of agricultural marketing channels and the
management of inventories in following CONASUPO's closure, together with a
- 2 -



renewed effort to promote farmers organization and micro-enterprise
development, (ii) develop financial services in rural areas and provide
support to the development of savings and loan schemes at the community
level, and (iii) foster a better understanding of the functioning of land
markets. Second, the living standards of the rural poor, especially
indigenous populations, and of small-holders needs to be improved through
increased targeted attention to the development of marginal areas and through
the enhancement of agricultural productivity. Third, complete and consolidate
the transfer of irrigation districts to water users associations, and
developing co-financing mechanisms for their modernization. Fourth, develop a
direct dialogue with the states and support the strengthening of local
institutional capacity under the new decentralization framework (Ramo 33) for
the provision of basic infrastructure in rural areas, and promoting more
effective institutional coordination of Government programs for local
regional development. The Bank will continue to deepen its knowledge of the
social and cultural factors that affect the economic well-being of indigenous
populations and their heritage and to mainstream its findings in the design
and implementation of sectoral operations.
In mid 1996 the Government launched a far-reaching national rural development
program (Alianza para el Campo) aimed at addressing the issues that affect
smallholder production and income. It fosters agricultural productivity
through productive investments (under a matching-grants scheme) and the
provision of more effective support services (research, extension,
information, training) for a wide range of agricultural sub-programs. The
cornerstone of the Alianza program is its decentralized approach and the
delegation of administration and decision-making to the States. The program
offers the opportunity and the operational vehicle to implement a
decentralized, demand-driven approach to channel technical and financial
assistance directly to small farmers and poor communities.
2. Objectives
The project objective of the phase II of the APL for this program is
consistent with the initial objective of improving smallholders' productivity
and food security in a sustainable way in 11 new marginal areas i.e. Selva-
Norte, Norte, Altos, and Sierra (Chiapas), Sierra Norte (Puebla); Altiplano
and Pame (San Luis Potosi), Alto Balsas (Guerero); Zongolica (Veracruz);
Meseta Purepecha and Tierra Caliente (Michoacan). This second phase expands
geographically drawing from the experience of phase I which is currently
operating in three regions in Oaxaca and three regions of the Huasteca.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
a) The Bank has built considerable experience in Mexico and worldwide on
policy dialogue and operations dealing with poverty alleviation issues and
rural investment funds. The Bank can facilitate access to information and
advisory capacity on design issues and lessons learned with comparable
projects and subsequent incorporation of the lessons of these experiences;
b) the financial instrument of the Adaptable Program Loan is providing
greater flexibility in adapting project design and financing to client needs
as they evolve; and
c) Bank's participation provides for better continuity of the long term
national program.
4. Description
Project activities that contribute to the project outputs are clustered in
-3 -



the following project components:
Component 1: Productive Investments (US$ 52.0 million)
The project will finance demand-driven investment sub-projects for
agricultural production, natural resources management, processing activities,
and minor productive infrastructure through a matching-grant system. Up-front
farmers' contribution will be in kind or/and in cash and will not be less
than 30t of project cost. As for the first phase, a cost recovery mechanism
will be established at the beneficiaries' level to ensure sustainability of
the activities. The grant-financing amounts are a function of the different
type of activities that farmers want to improve, as defined in the new
Operation Manual. Financing of the subprojects would include the following:
farming equipment and tools; input for cultivation or livestock; animals;
construction material; small works and installations; processing machinery;
small irrigation and drainage works and equipment; plantations and nurseries;
technical assistance and specialized training; and storage facilities for
inputs and products.
The project will cover various types of subproject in the following main
areas: improvements in existing farming systems for basic grains (milpa),
home garden production (traspatio), and rearing of small animals (birds,
sheep, goats and, pigs); dissemination of sustainable grain production
technologies that would improve soil and moisture conditions, mostly through
minimum tillage methods, green manure, and live barriers; diversification of
production systems and micro-enterprise development in the area of non-
traditional crops (vanilla, macadamia, litchi, ginger, chilis, flowers,
etc..); improvement of coffee productivity and the expansion of organic
production; promotion of technologies and investments that would foster
intensification of livestock activities, such as dual-purpose cattle raising
(dairy and meat) which offers the main opportunities in the lower zones;
natural resources management and agroforestry, establishment of seed and
plant nurseries and recuperation and conservation of soil; small enterprise
development, transformation and commercialization of products and inputs.
Revolving Funds
While the use of directed matching grants to finance rural productive
investments could be considered as a second best approach to rural finance,
it was chosen due to the low performance of rural financial markets in
Mexico, which are particularly deficient or non-existent in rural poverty
zones. International experience has shown that directed credit has low
repayment rates and high administrative costs. The approach chosen in this
project would not face comparable administrative costs since fiscal
recuperation of the funds is not envisaged. Rather, in addition to up-front
beneficiary contribution to the cost of the subproject, a cost recovery
mechanism would be developed at the community level and would build on
internal management practices and control systems for the establishment of
revolving funds at the community/group level that would constitute the basis
for the development of self-sustained savings and loan schemes. A specific
technical assistance effort would be implemented so as to provide the
required social intermediation support to progressively move towards more
formal financial intermediation systems (existing savings and loan
structures, regional revolving funds, credit unions, commercial banks, etc.).
- 4 -



Component 2: Community Development (US$ 7.0 million)
This component mostly covers activities to be implemented by the communities
and whose financing would not need to be recovered. Main activities include
preparation and implementation of simple plans of community-based natural
resources management using participatory rural assessment methods, small
projects of indirect benefits related to community activities, studies for
the preparation of community development plans and works, workshops and
training for capacity building, participatory approaches, management of
revolving funds, etc.
Component 3: Technical Support (US$ 20.0 million)
This component of the project covers the provision of extension services,
technical support and training of farmers and producers organizations
required for the implementation of subprojects, the establishment of
demonstration plots, and the organization of workshops and training. During
phase I, these services were mainly provided under the national extension
system (the SINDER program) and other technical staff under the Alianza.
However, results from preliminary experience under the program, have
demonstrated much better results when technical support is provided through
the services of a dedicated private firm. In phase II, the contracting of
professional private support services would be promoted with the
responsibility of i) selecting, coordinating and training the extension
agents in the field; and ii) provide technical support to the Regional
Councils for the appraisal and approval process of subprojects. By the same
token, the cost-recovery mechanism and the management of the community
revolving funds will need specialized, professional support from local
operators experienced in micro-finance issues.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration. (US$ 5.0
million)
Activities under this component would focus on the support to project
management and administration and include (i) the establishment and
operations of the technical support teams for each Regional Sustainable
Development Councils (CRDS) and Coffee Council; (ii) capacity building and
training for the CRDS and Coffee Councils; and (iii) institutional
strengthening at the central and state level for project management,
monitoring and evaluation, and auditing.
Through the support provided to the CRDS and Coffee Councils, the project
seeks to strengthen the decentralization process and foster the constitution
of sustainable decision-making and coordination bodies that would permit
better integration of programs at the regional level and better participation
and ownership by the beneficiaries. At the central level SAGAR would be
strengthened to implement the monitoring and evaluation system, carry out
project administration, undertake project preparation and launching for the
new regions under the national program.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               21
IBRD                     63
IDA                      -
-5-



Total Project Cost       84
6. Implementation
Implementation period: Implementation of the phase II will extend over an
approximate period of 5 years, as each phase supporting the national program.
Executing Agencies: Ministry for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
(SAGAR) and participating state authorities of Puebla, Guerrero, Veracruz,
San Luis Potosi, Chiapas, and Michoacan.
Project Administration: Implementation of the project would take place under
the Alianza para el Campo framework. In line with its decentralized strategy,
the program would be implemented under a formal global agreement (Convenio)
signed between SAGAR and each state participating in the program. Every
program under the Alianza includes a document (Anexo Tecnico) describing the
proposed activities and the annual budget with the financial commitment of
the federal and state governments for the marginal areas program. At present,
activities to be implemented in the different regions are covered by two
Anexos Tecnicos, one for the marginal areas program and one for the coffee
program (to the extent that coffee is grown in some of the regions). A
strategy for more closely integrating the administration of the two programs
is now under implementation with the aim of possibly merging operations of
the two programs under the same Anexo Tecnico (see Annex 4). An Operations
Manual describing implementation arrangements for the whole program was
prepared during the first phase and it is being updated to meet the
requirements of the second phase. It will cover operational rules and
criteria for all states participating in the program. The innovative feature
of the Alianza program is its cost sharing arrangements between the federal
level, the states and the producers. A Trust Fund (Fideicomiso) has been
established in each state to concentrate funds from the federal and state
levels, and to manage disbursements for the various sub-programs of the
Alianza. The state Rural Development Commission (CDR) is responsible for the
overall coordination, planning and prioritization of resource allocation by
sub-programs. CDRs comprise state representatives from the various
institutions involved in rural development, the SAGAR delegate, and producer
organizations.
At the regional and local level, the aim has been to develop implementation
arrangements that strengthen ownership and accountability at the community
level and stimulate beneficiaries and civil society participation and
involvement. Implementation mechanisms would also try to ensure access,
relevance, and efficiency in the provision of services. At the level of each
of the regions covered by the project, a Regional Sustainable Development
Council (CRDS) will be established representing the members of communities
and "ejidos", producer organizations, SAGAR, the State Government, relevant
public institutions (INI, SEDESOL, FONAES, SEMARNAP), with the option of
including NGOs recognized by producers and institutions. Its president would
be a representative of the State. The CRDS would coordinate either with the
correspondent Coffee Councils at regional level, where they exist, or with
representatives of coffee producers, where Coffee Councils are at state
level. The CRDS would have responsibility for the promotion, analysis, and
selection of sub-projects submitted by producers groups and communities. The
CRDS would be assisted by a small technical unit to carry out the technical,
economic, and social evaluation of the proposals, and make recommendations.
- 6 -



Upon approval by the CRDS, the sub-project proposals would be forwarded to
the Fideicomiso for payment to the provider of goods and services associated
with the sub-projects. During its implementation, the project will consider
the alternative of establishing a community fund where the Fideicomiso will
disburse directly. The CRDSs will also promote inter-institutional
coordination, foster synergy and complementarity of the programs already
operating in the region.
Financing for productive investments would operate under a matching grant
scheme with an up-front contribution of the beneficiaries of not less than 30
percent of project costs. Moreover, for these activities, a cost recovery
mechanism for the remaining 70 percent would be promoted at the community
level to foster sustainability, generation of resources at the local level,
and better accountability. Funds would be recuperated by the beneficiary
groups through their community organizations with the help of specialized
assistance (NGOs, existing savings and loan schemes, consultants) which, in
many instances, are already involved in the management of revolving funds or
informal micro-financing schemes. The incentive system for repayment into
this revolving funds scheme would build on the concept of community/group
responsibility and participation, including social peer pressure. In the case
of non repayment to the agreed percentages by the beneficiaries, no new
financing would be authorized by the CRDS to the members of the respective
community. The CRDS, through their technical units, would have first line
responsibility for monitoring implementation of the cost recovery mechanisms
at the local level. Funds would keep revolving at the community level
according to internal priorities and mechanisms as defined by the
community/group.
Project coordination: Project coordination would be carried out: (i) at the
federal level by SAGAR's Sub-secretariat for Rural Development. It would be
responsible for project oversight, overall policy guidance, the preparation
of new phases, and expansion of the national program; (ii) at the state level
by the CDR and state Coffee Councils, when they apply, and (iii) at the
regional level by the CRDS and regional Coffee Councils.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The Fideicomiso
would carry out financial accounting and maintain separate project accounts
and records for project related expenditures in accordance with sound and
accepted accounting practices. Financial reporting would be carried out by
the SAGAR delegation and state Coffee Councils in each state, including
preparation of the Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Financial reports would
be consolidated at the central level by SAGAR and NAFIN for transmission and
review by the Bank. The financial management, accounting system, and internal
controls are already in place as part of the Alianza program and are being
implemented under phase I. They have been operating satisfactorily and their
use would be continued under phase II. SAGAR has begun to take steps to adapt
its financial management system in line with the Bank's new Loan
Administrtaion Change Initiative (LACI). A transition phase, tentatively
expected to extend over the first two years, would be allowed for training,
software development, and acquaintance with the new financial monitoring
reports (FMRs). Under LACI, use of SOEs would be replaced by a system whereby
disbursements (including the amount of the Special Account) would be granted
to SAGAR on the basis of a set of agreed-upon quarterly reports. A new
computerized monitoring and reporting system is being finalized and will be
in place before effectiveness of phase II (it will also be applied to phase I
- 7-



regions). It will provide for a common framework at the central, state, and
regional level, that will permit more effective and harmonized information
flow and monitoring of physical and financial performance, including
preparation of the SOEs. The system will be adapted so as to be LACI
compliant. Accounts would be audited annually according to international
audit standards by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and GOM in
line with the framework agreement existing between the Bank and the
Secretariat for Administrative Control (SECODAM). Such framework has been
reviewed to make it compatible with the new OP/BP 10.02 on financial
management. Audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of
the end of each calendar year (Government of Mexico fiscal year).
Procurement: Most of the procurement (goods, works and services) will be
carried out as part of the approved sub-projects. The total cost of an
individual project would not exceed US$30,000 and would be implemented with
direct participation and contribution of the beneficiaries. Given the remote
and scattered location of many rural communities and in order to encourage
community participation in project execution, local shopping and direct
contracting procedures would be applicable. Procurement would be carried out
by the CRDSs, by the Coffee Councils and by the beneficiaries accordingly,
and payments made by the State Fideicomiso. Ceiling amounts are included in
the Operation Manual. Prices would be compared with reference prices
established at the state level where feasible.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Monitoring:
The CRDS would have primary responsibility for monitoring sub-projects
implementation. The technical unit of the CRDS would implement the monitoring
and reporting system described above, gathering information at the local
level on project implementation combining both physical and financial
information and submitting reports to the SAGAR delegation in each state, who
would in turn consolidate the information and provide periodic monitoring
reports to the federal level. M&E would be guided by the logical framework
matrix (see Annex I) and permit to follow up on the output and impact
indicators agreed upon.
Evaluation:
Evaluation of project activities, including project performance, level of
participation, and efficiency of the administrative system, would be carried
out once a year for each region through independent consultants. The
evaluation process would be based on the trigger indicators. It would build
on specific surveys and self-assessments. Information relative to project
impact on productivity and income would be provided annually according to the
agricultural cycles.
Reporting and expansion to new phases:
At the federal level, SAGAR will centralize and consolidate monitoring and
evaluation information for the whole program. It will submit progress reports
to the Bank twice a year. The monitoring & evaluation system will be key in
providing lessons of experience and helping in the design of new phases. In
particular, the annual evaluation report for every region would provide the
information needed to carry out the appraisal process of each subsequent
phase and assess the pace at which the program can be expanded. An
Implementation Completion Report will be prepared at least six months prior
- 8 -



to the final disbursement of the loan; GOM will prepare its own evaluation of
the project including a plan for its continued implementation.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability Would be addressed at three levels:
a) Technical sustainability would focus on the appropriate management of
natural resources. The project would promote technologies capable of
protecting the soil from degradation, particularly on the steep mountains. It
would discourage development that may damage the natural resource base;
b) institutional sustainability would be promoted: (i) at the federal and
state level, by building on and strengthening existing institutional
arrangements under the Alianza para el Campo program and involving state
authorities; and (ii) at the local level, through a decentralized
organizational set up that would promote ownership of the process of
appraisal and approval of investment proposals; and
c) financial sustainability would be pursued by promoting investments and
activities that would generate regular income streams over time, and which
the farmers themselves would be capable of managing and maintaining.
Moreover, cost-recovery would be sought for commercial activities so as to
stimulate the constitution of revolving funds at the community level.
Some uncertainty will remain with respect to political commitment and
therefore budgetary allocation at the end of the present administration in
the year 2000. However, there is growing concern in the public opinion about
the necessity to undertake a more proactive and targeted approach towards the
most disadvantaged segments of the rural population. This makes it unlikely
that major changes be introduced in the main sectoral orientations and
priorities, as they benefit from wide support at the state and local level.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The proposed second phase builds on two sets of experiences: (i) the
experience of decentralized, rural development investment programs, and (ii)
the lessons learned from phase I, that provided the ground for the proposed
project.
Experience from Rural Investment Programs
Rural investment programs, in general, indicate that flexibility and grass-
root demand-driven approaches are key in building ownership, defining local
priorities, and setting the ground for better implementation and
sustainability. In Mexico, positive examples can be drawn from the first and
second Decentralization and Rural Development projects (DRD I and II) as well
as the Rainfed Areas Development project, which already operated under the
Alianza Framework. The Bank's record of financing this type of programs is on
the whole satisfactory, and there is consensus on continuing this line of
financial assistance. Over time, however, some shortcomings have emerged:
a) Past municipality-based demand-driven approaches have been globally
successful in the promotion of rural infrastructure and social investments.
However, because investment decision by municipalities tend to favor
collective investments, little has been achieved in triggering production-
oriented activities and tapping the productive potential of existing
resources;
b) notwithstanding their intrinsic merits, micro-investments tend to form a
-9-



disparate collection of interventions, and may not reach the critical
development mass required to attract the private sector, generate buyers
competition, facilitate access to markets, and foster the establishment of
support services;
c) it is important that access to resources for productive investments be
accompanied by the required support for technology validation and community
organization; and
d) poor timing and lengthy administrative processes at times jeopardize the
implementation of this type of programs particularly in agriculture where
natural cycles impose rigid time constraints.
Experience from the Implementation of Phase I
Phase I had already addressed the above issues by proposing to: (i) focus on
productive investments in areas with productive potential; (ii) promote a
regional approach as a way to concentrate interventions and foster a more
integrated level of development, driven by market opportunities; (iii)
providing a broad range of technical assistance and training to producers and
communities; and (iv) promoting decentralized and agile mechanisms for sub-
projects approval and disbursement.
The experience from phase I already points to a number of elements in project
design and implementation that are worth adjusting or improving (also see
section B.4.). First, decentralization of decision making is a very powerful
instrument to improve ownership and accountability at the local level, but it
can face resistance from vested interests and suffer delays in project
implementation while the new institutional and operational arrangements are
internalized. In this respect, the new Operational Manual is proposing
improvements in ensuring a balanced representativeness of institutions and
civil society at the level of the Regional Councils, it also promotes better
representation of the program at the level of the Rural Development State
Commission (CDR), and simplification of bureaucratic requirements. Second,
community participation can be improved through: (i) strengthening the
participatory community development plans so that they can represent a more
strategic base on which to identify subprojects, create economy of scale and
limit the possibility of dispersion or lack of focus of program
interventions; and (ii) developing a more effective strategy for cost
recovery, building on more specialized and professional technical assistance
and social intermediation, so that groups and communities can be an integral
part in the definition of the mechanisms and rules leading to the development
of self-sustained savings and loan schemes. A special effort and new
resources will be devoted to this aspect. Third, it has proven difficult to
sustain a satisfactory performance of the technical assistance in these
marginal areas without a more effective training and organization effort of
the extension agents. It is now proposed to hire specialized private
services, knowledgeable about the program strategy and ensuring supervision,
coordination and quality control on the provision of technical assistance and
subproject preparation.
Justification for the Integration of the Coffee Program
Given the importance of coffee production in Mexico and its specific
institutional and organizational context, the Government has been
implementing a separate Coffee Support Program under the Alianza framework.
In the first phase, the Rural Development in Marginal Areas project did not
- 10 -



contemplate financing for the coffee activities under the Coffee Program in
the selected regions. However, many of the marginal areas considered under
the program (in Phase I and II), have coffee as one of the main crop and its
distribution is particularly important in the poorest areas.     SAGAR's medium
to long term strategy is to progressively integrate the two programs so that
producers can have access to a broader menu of options, allowing for more
flexibility and diversification opportunities. Project financing for the
second phase would support such strategy and therefore also cover coffee
development activities under the Coffee Program in the project regions.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects
Issues:
Overall, the project is environmentally beneficial or neutral. Separate
environmental impact analysis have been developed by specialized private
and public organizations, including INAGA, GEOSFERA, Universidad Autonoma
Metropolitana, Colegio de Postgraduados, Colegio de la Frontera Sur, in
close collaboration with several state and federal agencies such as
SEMARNAP, SEDESOL, INEGI, INI and with international or national
organizations such as WWF, FAO, CIMMYT, USAID. They have shown that the
project, through the development of sustainable technical activities (sub-
projects), such as conservation tillage, IPM, crop diversification,
marketing of organic products, artisanal production, will contribute to
the control of soil erosion, and the improvement of the quality of the
land and water resources, while protecting the animal and vegetal
biodiversity. The new Operations Manual provides clear guidance for the
selection and implementation of these subprojects, as well as a list of
activities that are not eligible, such as creation or rehabilitation of
roads, over-use of agro-chemical inputs, inappropriate crop processing
methods. Therefore, the main issue has to do with an efficient and
effective implementation of integrated technological and economic
activities at farm and (micro) regional level. This issue will be
addressed by strengthening the environmental awareness and agro-ecological
expertise of farmers men and women, extensionists and farmers
organizations, through training courses, field visits, and specialized
technical assistance provided by private services (despacho) or public
organizations oriented to creating local capacities and know-how.
The Rural Development in Marginal Areas project is consistent with the
objectives of OP 4.09 Pest Management, namely in "relying as much as
possible on non-chemical measures to keep pest population low [I
selecting and applying pesticides (when they have to be used) in a way
that minimizes adverse effects on beneficial organisms, humans, and the
environment", and OP 4.06 Forestry " to reduce deforestation, enhance the
environmental contribution of forested areas, reduce poverty, and
encourage economic development" In coherence with OD 4.20 Indigenous
People, the Project builds on diagnostic studies prepared by the
Indigenous Peoples Profiles Project and on complementary socio-economic
studies developed through participatory methodology during the preparation
phase, to use practical ways of involving indigenous people in the
selection and implementation of technical activities consistent with the
social demand.
11. Contact Points:



Team Leader
Adolfo Brizzi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Mexico Office
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 525-4804239
Fax: (525) 4804282
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 30, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 12 -



