Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7004-ME
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development in Marginal Areas Project – Phase II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
Dated March 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7004-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) the Bank has received from the United Mexican States (the 
Guarantor) a letter dated November 6, 1997, which describes the Guarantor’s policies 
and strategies (the Program) with respect to rural development in marginal areas;
(B)
the Guarantor has requested that the Bank support the Program through a 
series of loans to the Borrower over a period of approximately eight years;
(C)
the Guarantor and the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which Project forms part of the second phase of the Program, have requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(D)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower, in support of the second phase of the Program, upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably  request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations 
under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Alianza para el Campo” means the Guarantor’s agricultural production and 
rural development program established on the basis of the Guarantor’s 1995-2000 
National Development Plan and subsequent coordination with agricultural producers’ 
organizations;
(b)
“Beneficiaries” means small farmers that meet the eligibility criteria 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement and carry out a Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined);
(c)
“CDR” means a Comisión de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development Commission) 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(d)
“CEC” means a Consejo Estatal del Café (State Coffee Council) referred to 
in Section 3.08 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(e)
“Community Development Subproject” means a set of productive activities 
that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement, 
are not themselves income-producing and are carried out by small farmers, acting 
through their communities, for the general benefit of those communities; 
(f)
“CRC” means a Consejo Regional del Café (Regional Coffee Council) 
referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(g)
“CRDS” means a Consejo Regional de Desarrollo Sustentable (Regional 
Sustainable Development Council) referred to in Section 3.07 (a) of the Guarantee 
Agreement;
(h)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in said 
Interest Period;
(i)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(k)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing, inter alia, indicators to be used in monitoring and 
evaluating implementation of the Project;
(l)
“INI” means the Guarantor’s Instituto Nacional Indigenista (National 
Page  3
Indigenous Affairs Institute);
(m)
“Maturity Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the date on 
which the amortization schedule for said Disbursed Amount is established, such date 
being the first day of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which 
said Disbursed Amount is withdrawn;
(n)
“Operational Manual” means the manual and its supplement referred to in 
Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(o)
“Participating States” means the Guarantor’s states of Chiapas, 
Michoacán, Guerrero, Puebla, San Luis Potosí and Veracruz, as well as any other states 
that may be added by the Guarantor with the express written approval of the Bank;
(p)
“Participation Agreement” means an agreement referred to in Section 3.04 
(b) of the Guarantee Agreement; 
(q)
“Productive Investment Subproject” means a set of productive activities 
that meet the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement, 
are income-producing or food/resource-producing and are carried out by a small farmer 
(individually or in combination with other small farmers) for his, her or their 
specific benefit;
(r)
“Project Area” means each of the following nine marginal rural areas (as 
well as any other such areas that may be added by the Guarantor with the express 
written approval of the Bank):  in the Participating State of Chiapas, the Norte area 
(consisting of the Norte area municipalities listed in the Implementation Letter) and 
the Sierra area (consisting of the Sierra area municipalities listed in the 
Implementation Letter); in the Participating State of Michoacán, the Meseta-Purepecha 
area (consisting of the Meseta-Purepecha area municipalities listed in the 
Implementation Letter) and the Tierra Caliente area (consisting of the Tierra Caliente 
area municipalities listed in the Implementation Letter); in the Participating State 
of Guerrero, the Alto Balsas area (consisting of the Alto Balsas area municipalities 
listed in the Implementation Letter); in the Participating State of Puebla, the Sierra 
Norte area (consisting of the Sierra Norte area municipalities listed in the 
Implementation Letter); in the Participating State of San Luis Potosí, the Pame area 
(consisting of the Pame area municipalities listed in the Implementation Letter) and 
the Altiplano area (consisting of the Altiplano area municipalities listed in the 
Implementation Letter); and in the Participating State of Veracruz, the Zongolica area 
(consisting of the Zongolica area municipalities listed in the Implementation Letter);
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.09 (d) of the Guarantee Agreement;
(t)
“SAGAR” means the Guarantor’s Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería y 
Desarrollo Rural (Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development Secretariat);
(u)
“SDR” means SAGAR’s Subsecretaría de Desarrollo Rural (Rural Development 
Subsecretariat);
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(w)
“Subproject” means a Community Development Subproject or a Productive 
Investment Subproject.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to SAGAR.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifty-five 
million Dollars ($55,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
Page  4
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of 
the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1.0%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, 
pay interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on 
the eleventh (11th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the fifteenth (15th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount.  
Each installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-fifth (1/5) of said 
Disbursed Amount.  The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding 
amount of said Disbursed Amount.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after October 15, 2012, the Borrower 
shall also pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization 
schedule for each Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said 
Disbursed Amount.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
Page  5
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: a 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable 
Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and the setting of limits on the Variable Rate 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate. 
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the 
Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(e)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, requests 
for Conversion shall not be furnished to the Bank prior to February 1, 2000, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank.  The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to 
Conversions agreed between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to paragraph (c) of this 
Section.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia, for:  (a) the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall 
be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges on 
the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
fail to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account, for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards and 
procedures consistently applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement have been entered into;
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by SAGAR and put into effect; 
and
(c)
that the Guarantor has in place appropriate resources and mechanisms 
required to carry out the obligations set forth in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower and the Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally 
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date June 26, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
Dirección Internacional
Torre IV, piso 8
Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
01020 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
NAFIN
NAFIME 383-1775765
Mexico City
Mexico City 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
New Orleans, Louisiana, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti  
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
By /s/ Carlos Sales Gutiérrez 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
   Dollars)
  Financed
(1)
Goods, works and
  38,000,000
75%
services for Subprojects
under Part A of the
Project
(2)
Consultants’ services
  13,500,000
75% 
under Parts B and C
of the Project
Page  8
(3)
Office equipment and
   1,500,000
75%
incremental operating costs
under Part C of the Project
(4)
Fee
     550,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of
this Agreement
(5)
Premia for Interest Rate
 0
Amount due under
Caps and Interest Rate
Section 2.09 (d) of
Collars
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   1,450,000
TOTAL
  55,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “office equipment and incremental 
operating costs” includes recurrent Project management and administration costs at the 
SDR, CRC, CEC, CDR and CRDS levels, that would not have been incurred absent the 
Project, as well as office equipment costs at those levels.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,500,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve months prior 
to the date of this Agreement but after March 15, 1999.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for all expenditures under Subprojects, for all 
incremental operating cost expenditures, and for expenditures under consultant 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of consulting firms) and 
less than $50,000 equivalent (in the case of individual consultants), all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de México on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement; and (ii) a request from 
the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 3.09 of the Guarantee Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.09 of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
Page  9
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or the Guarantor shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and 
Section 3.09 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement, any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Sections in respect of the audit of:  (A) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made  
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Page  10
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $10,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to, by means of a community-based approach, 
improve the well-being and income of small farmers in targeted marginal rural areas 
through sustainable increases in their productivity and better food security.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
(a)
Financing on a matching-grant basis and carrying out of Productive 
Investment Subprojects.
(b)
Financing on a matching-grant basis and carrying out of Community 
Development Subprojects.
Part B:
Technical Support
Provision of extension services, technical assistance and training to 
Beneficiaries in support of the preparation and carrying out of Subprojects, in 
Page  11
support of rural development in general, as well as to promote Beneficiaries’ 
development of Subproject cost recovery mechanisms for the establishment of 
capitalization funds at the community level.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration
Strengthening (through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
incremental operating cost support) of the capacity of SDR and of the CECs, CDRs and 
CRDSs to manage and administer the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
