Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24237
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-20150; IDA-20151)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.2 MILLION (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR A PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
June 14, 2002
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUrVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Yemeni Rial (YER)
April 1989: US$ 1 = YER 9.75
April 1999: US$ 1 = YER 145.00
May 2000: US$ 1 = YER 161.26
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBY               Central Bank of Yemen
COCA              Central Organization for Control and Auditing
GOY               Govenmment of Yemen
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
ISS               Institute for Social Sciences (the Hague)
JIPA              Jordan Institute of Public Administration
MCSAR             Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
MIS               Management Information System
MOF               Ministry of Finance
MOPD              Ministry of Planning and Development
NIAS              National Institute of Administrative Sciences (ex NIPA)
NIPA               National Institute of Public Administration (now NIAS)
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
PDRY              People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
SDR               Special Drawing Rights
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UK                United Kingdom
YAR                Yemen Arab Republic
YER               Yemeni Rial
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader    Vasilios C. Demetriou



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     14
9. Partner Comments                                                                    15
10. Additional Information                                                             24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   38
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   39
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   41
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      42
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the peirformance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



6Tp: Core ICR                                        |Report Date: June 24,2002l
1. Project Data
Name: INST. DEV. FOR PUB.                           LIC/TFNumber: IDA-20150;
IDA-20151
Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                   Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/09/1987                             Effective: 04/12/1990        04/12/1990
Appraisal:  04/17/1989                               MTR:                      06/15/1995
Approval:  05/12/1989                             Closing: 06/30/1996          12/31/1998
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MCSAR/NIPA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Mahmood A. Ayub                           Everardus J. Stoutjesdijk
Sector Manager:      Jacques F. Baudouy                        Douglas H. Keare
Team Leader at ICR:  Vasilios C. Demetriou.                    Yogendra Saran
ICR Primary Author:  Vasilios C. Demetriou; Ragaa
Makharita; and Patricia
Maughan-Colon.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=-Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No quality at entry evaluation existed at the time of appraisal.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This project, Institutional Development for Public Administration, was the first IDA. credit for institutional
development of Yemen's public administration, although there have been other IDA-assisted projects that
supported development of the skilled manpower needed in public administration. The project was to
improve public administration through institutional development of the Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform (MCSAR) and the National Institute for Administrative Sciences (NIAS). MCSAR
regulates employment conditions in the public sector, including wages and salaries. NLAS (formerly the
National Institute for Public Administration, NIPA) was formally mandated in 1994 as the country's main
public administration training agency. NIPA/NIAS was given increased responsibility in 1981 to develop
national administrative capacity, as well as to promote the training of public officials and those in
mixed-ownership (e.g., state-owned enterprises. In addition to its training responsibility, NIAS is required
to: (i) conduct education programs at the post-secondary and post-university levels for civil servants, and
for public and mixed-sector employees; (ii) engage in research and consultancy activities; and (iii) publish
its findings. The two institutions responsible for the development and operation of Yemen's public service.
The project complemented the Government's effort to create an efficient civil service, as outlined in the
Five-Year Plan (1987-1991). MCSAR and NIAS had been mandated to create policy. that would
strengthen public institutions, and both entities needed upgraded skills and facilities in order to carry out
their mandates effectively.
The task became more complex when North and South Yemen reunited and the Republic of Yemen was
created in May 1990, one year after the project was approved and only a month after it became effective.
The project had been designed for, and the IDA credit granted to, the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR).
However, when YAR merged with the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY), the new
centralized-but northern-controlled-civil service administration had to absorb roughly 110,000 civil
servants from the former PDRY. This seriously constrained the new Government's ability to function
efficiently and effectively. The project was not at that time redesigned; rather, implementation of the
original project proceeded under those circumstances.
The original project objectives were to strengthen MCSAR and NIAS through technical assistance, staff
development, and logistical support, so that these agencies could effectively support the Govemment's
institution-building efforts throughout the public administration. Specifically, the project aimed to enable
MCSAR to: (a) evaluate and improve the quality of Government operations and management, personnel
and administrative policies, and manpower and training planning of up to nine Government agencies (not
named in the appraisal documents); (b) establish a Management Information System (MIS) for the civil
service and the public sector; and (c) assess the consistency of its own structure with respect to its
functions and responsibilities. For NIAS, the project aimed to: (a) improve the quality, efficiency, and
coverage of education, training, and research, and strengthen consultancy programs; (b) meet its staff
shortages through expatriate teacher support while Yemeni staff were away on fellowships; (c) develop a
long-term strategic plan for manpower development in the public sector; and (d) establish appropriate
institutional decision making structures and processes. The project was to be implemented over a
seven-year period, with MSCAR and NIAS responsible for implementing their respective components.
The credit of SDR 8.2 million (about US$10.8 million), was approved by the IDA Board in May 1989.
The project was originally designed for the Yemen Arab Republic (North Yemen), and was to be
implemented over a seven-year period. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$15.06 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$10.2 million. The Credit Agreement was signed in
January 1990 and became effective in April 1990.
- 2 -



The project fit well into the framework of Govenmment objectives, as stated in the Third Five-year Plan
(1987-1991), which gave priority to increasing the effectiveness of Government institutions. The project
also was in line with previous IDA efforts, as well as with projects sponsored by other agencies, which
provided substantial inputs for the development of skilled manpower and appropriate institutional
structures for the effective management of development programs. Since 1973, a substantial portion of
IDA assistance has been devoted to institutional development, training, and technical assistance; large
numbers of Yemeni officials have benefited from overseas training under the fellowship components of
different credits. Specifically, IDA has assisted in developing the capacity of the Ministries of Planning and
Development, Agriculture, Economy, Education, and Health.
For the project, the two beneficiary institutions were the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative
Reform (MCSAR) and the National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA), which was renamed the
National Institute of Administrative Science (NIAS) in 1994; these agencies accounted for 36 and 64
percent share of the project cost, respectively. MCSAR and NIAS were targeted because of their mandate
to suipport the Govemment's plans for social and economic development, by increasing the efficiency of
public agencies. Two Project Implementation Units (PIUs), one for MCSAR and one for NIAS were
responsible for implementing their respective components. However, this arrangement proved to be
problematic, since'there was little cooperation between the two PIUs, and little interest or supervision from
the Ministry.
The project aimed to strengthen the capacity of both MCSAR and NIAS to carry out their mandates to
impiove the performance of public institutions. For MCSAR, the objective was to enable it to fulfill its
operational and advisory obligations to nine Govermnent agencies in the areas of manpower and training
planning, personnel administration, procedural improvements, and increased effectiveness. At the time of
appraisal, no specific recommendation were made, but it was assumed that some key ministries such as the
Ministry of-Planning and Development, the Ministry of Education and MCSAR itself might be considered.
During implementation, none of these ministries cooperated and some actively resisted the idea completely.
For 'NIAS, the objective was to improve its capacities to design and deliver training programs aimed at
increasing the skills of public administrators, to conduct research, and to provide consultancy services to
public agencies. For both entities, the project provided funding for technical assistance, staff development
programs, and improved facilities.
3.2 Aevised Objective:
Yemen's social and economic environment was affected between 1990 and 1994 by domestic and regional
events, including the unification process, the Gulf War, and civil strife. Issues that had influenced the
initial design of the project consequently changed particularly the country's administrative needs and
priorities. Therefore, a decision was taken in March 1995 to restructure and redirect the project in order to
provide for the necessary administrative reforms. The proposal for restructuring the project was prepared
in M[ay 1995 by Pan Yemen Consultant Services. This new strategy advocated abandoning those portions
of the initial project that could not be completed by December 1997, the anticipated closing date. The
restructured project aimed to support, strengthen, or accelerate any successful, ongoing activities of the
initial project, and, at the same time, develop and implement activities' for promoting -concrete
administrative reforms and updating administrative operations.
Almost from the beginning, the project suffered from a number of difficulties and implementatron did not
proceed satisfactorily. Bank supervision was also inadequate despite frequent missions. The project was
-3 -



restructured in September 1995 and SDR 2 million (US$3 million), which at that time was considered a
surplus, was canceled. Subsequently, task management from the Bank side was changed, implementation
picked up and it appeared likely that the project, as originally designed, would be implemented. A
supplemental credit was approved in October 1997 (see following section).
The difficulties with the project had a number of interrelated causes. Both components expenenced
management problems, but the NIAS component (64 percent of project cost) was particularly affected by
the lack of leadership, as NIAS did not have a dean for three years. The MCSAR component (36 percent
of project cost) initially moved fast, but with some quality lapses in the implementation of various
activities, it then slowed down. These lapses were largely a result of the reunification of North and South
Yemen in 1991. The merger of the two civil service administrations created new difficulties in developing
an effective system of public sector management. The problem was exacerbated later that year when the
country was plunged into economic crisis, due to the return of approximately 750,000 Yemeni workers (out
of a total population of 15 million) from Saudi Arabia as a result of the Gulf War. The country's
economic difficulties were further exacerbated by a brief but devastating North-South civil war in 1994.
By this time, the focus of the country's top decision makers was on the priority of national reconciliation,
rather than on the more medium-term goal of creating an efficient, modem system of public administration.
Once good progress had been made toward national healing, the next set of urgent issues involved staving
off an inminent economic collapse. Again, attention was focused on crisis management
In early 1995, IDA realized that the project design and development objectives were too ambitious in light
of Yemen's recent experiences; and that the Government was in no position to embark on ambitious and
somewhat politically sensitive civil service reforms even if the project were given more time. The
conclusion was that while the proposed objectives of reforming the civil service, restructuring certain
ministries, and steamlining administative procedures were still valid, the range of activities involved could
not be accomplished within the scope of this project. Therefore, the project was restructured and the
surplus canceled in September 1995. Activities such as advising and restructuring up to six Govemment
departments or ministries on administrative procedures, performance evaluation, and work classification;
and reviewing the organization and functions of nine Government agencies, were dropped.
Under the restructured project, the objectives for MCSAR were modified to concentrate on the following
priority areas:
a. Simplifying administrative systems and procedures, to eliminate unnecessary administrative regulations
and facilitate the decision-making process.
b. Restructuring some key ministries, so they could support the economic reform program.
c. Reforming civil service personnel management, to simplify the procedures governing the intenal
mobility of civil servants, identification and redeployment of surplus manpower, and analysis of future
manpower needs.
d. Establishing an integrated, computer-based MIS that would connect MCSAR with other key ministries,
thereby enhancing the Government's ability to use and share information.
e. Conducting four studies: (i) Records Management; (ii) Wages and Salary Structures in Yemen Civil
Service; (iii) Jobs Classification; and (iv) Human Resources Management and Personnel Policies. The
output of these studies was intended to provide the needed conceptual foundation for policy reform in
these areas.
The objectives for NIAS remained unchanged. However, achievement of these objectives was found to
require additional money (see below).
-4 -



3.3 Original Components:
Ministry of Civil Service and Administratve Reform (MCSAR). The project originally aimed to assist
MCSAR in building its capacity for manpower planning in the civil service; formulating new public
personnel policies that would enhance the management of human resources; inproving Government
orgnmizational structures; and simplifying operational procedures in the pubhc service. Activities in these
areas are described below.
(a)    Manpower Development PlanIing. The expected output of this activity (109 person-months) was a
cornprehensive manpower and training plan to have been developed with the help of consultants and the
Ministry's own staff, who, after the completion of their own training overseas, would have an enhanced
capacity to administer the training programs and monitor their impact. The staff training planned under
this activity was for both long- and short-term training in the areas of human resources planning,
manpower statistics, and the assessment of training needs for Government personnel.
(b)    Personnel Policy and Administration. A study of the personnel system (9 person-months) was to
have been carried out, which would serve as the foundation for improving personnel policy and
administration. A long-term consultant (36 person-months) was to have been attached to MCSAR's
Government Personnel Sector, and assisted by short-term consultants (6 person-months). Funds were to
have been provided for staff training at the graduate and diploma levels (102 person-months) in jobs
classification and grading, staff evaluation and development, and civil service statistics.
(c)    Management Information Capacity. The development of an efficient Management Information
System (MIS), including the construction of a new computer center and the provision of related hardware
and software, was to have occurred (78 person-months of consulting services and 72 person-months of
staff training).
(d)    Government Organization and Operations. As a result of different efforts under this activity,
MCSAR was to have gained the capacity to advise and restructure up to six Government departments or
ministries on issues relating to administrative procedures, performance evaluation, and work classification.
To this end, a senior consultant/team leader was to have been attached to the Minister's office (42
person-months), and assisted by other specialists (8 person-months). Staff capacity was to be developed
through graduate and diploma fellowships (123 person-months) in various areas of public sector
management Short-term training was also planned (66 person-months), to increase skills in accounting,
financial management, performance evaluation, and organization and methods. Under this activity,
MCSAR's Department of Organization and Administration, in particular, was to have been strengthened so
that it could review the organization and functions of nine Government agencies during the life of the
project. Funds were to have been provided for expert services (36 person-months) and staff training (123
person-months).
(e)    MCSAR's Organizational Structure. A study (3 person-months) was to have been undertaken to
assess the adequacy of the Ministry's organization and functions and determine the organizational structure
and operational procedures that would best help the Ministry to fulfill its mandate. The expected output
was, a set of recommendations for restructuring, and their implementation.
National Institute of Administrative Science (NIAS), formerly called National Institute of Public
Administration (NIPA). The objectives of this component were to address the major constraints to NIAS
being able to carry out its mandate of training, research, and consultancy for Government agencies. The
activities of this component are described below.
-5 -



(a)    Staff Development. Nine fellowships were to have been offered to staff to enable them to earn
graduate degrees overseas, thereby strengthening NIAS's teaching faculty in key programs, including
information technology and public finance. In addition, funds were to have been provided for short-term
training (126 person-months) to upgrade the skills of NIAS faculty in public administration, office
management, design and organization of training programs, and project management and teaching methods.
(b)    Research and Consultancy. To develop capacity in these areas, the project was to have provided
fellowships for staff development in the areas of research and consultancy methods, and management (102
person-months).It also provided consulting services (36 person-months) for developing the research
program and canying out consulting assignments in four public agencies/projects.
(c)    Long-term Training Plan. Expert services (10 person-months) and staff training (4 person-months)
were to have been provided to develop NIAS's capacity to prepare a long-term training plan, and to guide
the formulation of programs and curricula that could meet changing demands for training, research, and
consultancy services.
(d)    Equipment and Facilities. The project was to have provided funds to expand the existing physical
facilities at Sana'a headquarters to address the issue of space shortage, as well as funds to replace the
inadequate rented space of the regional NIAS branch at Ibb with a new building and faculty housing.
(e)    Teaching Support. The project was to have provided substitute teachers (540 person-months) to
teach courses in office management, accounting, public administration, and economics, to enable NIAS
operations at the three regional branches and at Sana'a headquarters to continue while staff were being
trained.
3.4 Revised Components:
To reinforce MCSAR's regulatory and administrative function, the restructured project focused on: (a)
streanilining administrative systems and procedures by eliminating unnecessary administrative regulations
that were inhibiting the decision making process; (b) restructuring and/or reorganizing some key
departments in order to facilitate economic reform; (c) reforming the civil service by simplifying the
procedures governing the internal mobility of staff, identification and redeployment of surplus manpower,
and analysis of future manpower needs; and (d) enhancing computer capabilities and developing an
integrated, computer-based MIS for key ministries to be selected during the course of implementation. For
NLAS, the restructured project focused on: (a) improving its capacity to design and deliver public
administration and civil service training programs; and (b) strengthen its research and consultancy
capabilities in priority areas of public administration. For both MCSAR and NIAS, the project also
included civil works and related equipment and furniture (paras. 12 and 13).
Soon after the cancellation of SDR 2 million, NIAS contracted the civil works for expansion of the Sana'a
campus. To complete the remaining activities, however, the project required an additional US$1.54 million
to cover a cost overrun caused by several factors beyond the borrower's control: (a) a sharp decline in the
value of the SDR, which reduced project funds by US$0.79 million; (b) extra work needed to complete the
foundation of the Ibb campus, repair flood damage, convert the existing Ministry building to house the
computer center, and construct a new building and training facility for the Ministry, although the original
plan included only the computer center for MCSAR; (c) underestimation of the cost of equipment and
furniture for NIAS's new facilities, as well as for the new MCSAR office building and training facility; and
(d) a cost overrun in the training programs. It should be noted that the DCA amendment of January 1996,
- 6 -



incnaasing IDA financing of civil works from 51% to 90%, also contributed to the need for additional IDA
funcls. IDA agreed to continue its support for the completion of the remaining activities, and a
supplemental credit for SDR 1.13 million (US$1.54 million) was approved in September 1997. The
clos:ing date was extended twice, until June 30, 1998 because key components including the fellowships
program were still incomplete. A third extension to December 31, 1998 was granted when financial
mismanagement was discovered, to enable investigation for alleged misappropriation of funds before the
PIUs were disbanded.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Not formally assessed. However, in retrospect, the project was too ambitious for a country with ancient
traditions and slow change.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Although project restructuring helped to accelerate implementation, MCSAR's leadership continued to be
distiacted by the issues of unification, civil strife, and national healing. These circumstances significantly
affected the degree of attention paid to the project's objectives and activities. In addition, even after some
poliiical stability was achieved, the national leadership continued to focus on crisis management in an
attempt to stave off an imminent economic collapse. Thus, although the four studies and the local and
overseas training programs for MCSAR were completed, the level of achievement of project objectives was
very' modest. For NIAS, which remained without a Dean for more than three years, the failure to fulfill the
project's development objectives-strengthening of internal systems, strategic planning, and program
development-was even more disappointing. In addition, despite the procurement of certain equipment,
and the completion of civil works, various staff training programs, and the Long-term Training Plan study,
the financial mismanagement during the last year (see paras. below) cast a pall on the NIAS component,
which overshadowed these accomplishments.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Mimnistry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR)
The simplification of administrative systems and procedures did not take place within MCSAR and other
ministries, because MCSAR was unable to attract the expertise required and many staff members who
needed to be involved in the process were overseas in training programs under this project. The
restructuring of some key ministries also did not occur, because some of the ministries proposed for the
exercise such as MOPD and Education, resisted the idea and MCSAR did not pursue the matter further
with higher authorities. In regard to the reform of the management of civil service personnel and the
identification and redeployment of surplus manpower-the basic requirements for these reforms were not in
place, so this objective, as well, proved too ambitious to achieve.
The computer equipment, although outmoded almost as soon as it was installed, is being well utilized for
the general purposes of MCSAR. It is well suited to handling MCSAR's MIS, particularly as it applies to
the salaries and wages of MCSAR's own personnel. However, despite the improvement in MCSAR's MIS
capacity, the intended linkage of the Ministry with other agencies never occurred. The computerization of
personnel records has covered only about 30 percent of the civil service staff due to a lack of resources for
data collection and entry. IDA's suggestion to contract this activity outside MCSAR did not materialize,
as MCSAR insisted on carrying out the activity in-house. Later, it was decided that this activity could be
- 7 -



undertaken under the new initiatives for civil service reform which, with IDA assistance, were under
preparation by the Government.
Despite the fact that all Ministers who served during the life of the project up until 1997, expressed their
commitment to the project's objectives, MCSAR's work methods did not change, and the Ministry did not
define its mission as one of reform until a new Minister took office. Law No. 19 of 1991, which defines the
functions and responsibilities of MCSAR and was the target of reform under this project is still in force.
Under this law, performance evaluation and the reward system in the civil service is still based on seniority
rather than merit. In addition, MCSAR's administrative procedures have not been simplified, and
decision-making remains solidly centralized.
The inputs for civil works and goods did not fully achieve the original project objective of creating a
computer center to provide a modern information and communication environment This function was
assigned to a converted top floor in the old building, while the new facility now serves as the Ministry's
headquarters providing excellent training facilities and a records center.
Training served to increase the knowledge of participants, but has had no impact on their job performance
with the exception of those trained in the computer field, who found that taining did improve their
performance. In general, training was not designed within a strategic framework of MCSAR's own
development needs, which remain undefined to date. The training selection method was deficient, as many
officials were sent to training programs in subjects unrelated to their jobs. For some, the level of training
was either too simplistic or, for those low education levels, too complicated. The Jordan Institute of Public
Administration (JIPA), which evaluated the training, reported that more than 30 percent of MCSAR's
trainees were unfit for the programs, and that the groups were seldom homogeneous in terms of educational
background or knowledge of the subject matter.
In some cases, the training period was too short, particularly in the case of the 9 programs organized by the
University of Jordan, each of which entailed only 30 hours of trining in a 2-week period. Such short
duration was insufficient for the complex subjects to be covered. No evaluation has been made of these
programs, but participants reported that treatment of the subjects often stopped at generalities.
Thefour studies conducted under the MCSAR component have been presented to the Ministry by the PIUJ
but have not been seriously discussed. The results were disappointing; the four studies addressed subjects
that are interdependent, and their outputs could have fed into each other as a coherent blueprint for policy
reform. However, the studies were neither designed nor conducted in a coordinated manner. Each study
team worked independently and did not discuss its work with the other teams. The local teams were
disbanded as the tasks were completed, and no follow-up was carried out. Three of the four studies were
either too theoretical or irrelevant to the Yemeni context by the time they were completed, while the fourth,
the Records Management Study, made some valuable recommendations that the Ministry ignored, despite
the urging of IDA. The study on manpower planning was not applicable to the Yemeni environment. The
study on wages and salaries focused on the advantages of the present wage and salary policies in the civil
service and suggested only minor changes to the status quo, despite the urgent need for a review of
problems caused by the present policies. The study on jobs classification contained useful general
information about jobs classification, but failed to apply its recommendations to the Yemeni context. The
study on records management, the only study that was satisfactory, described the problems of MCSAR's
records management system and suggested important changes in records units organization; document
maintenance; treatment and handling of confidential correspondence; methods of preservation and archiving
of records; procedures for incoming and outgoing mail, etc.
-8 -



National Institute of Administrative Science (NIAS)
The project objectives were not entirely realistic for the conditions in Yemen at the time of project
preparation. Furthermore, as there was absence of leadership at the Institute, even the realistic objectives
were not fully realized. Because NIAS lacked a Dean for three years, and considering all the other factors
that affected the national political and economic environment, the Institute's management was not fully
committed to the project, and did not exercise guidance or control of the PIU. This made it difficult to
succeed in developing NIAS's long-term institutional capacity. Even after project restructuring, most
attention went to civil works and hardware. Little was done to improve the Institute's internal management
and efficiency, and the overseas training programs lacked strategic planning, with many candidates
undertaking subjects that were irrelevant to NIAS's priorities. Scant attention was paid to strengthening
intenal systems, strategic planning, and program development, even after the new Dean was appointed.
The negative environment that prevailed at NIAS was also the result of the absence of 172 faculty members
trained either under this project or under two previous IDA-financed education projects. These staff
members received salaries, yet their presence was not required and they were often not held accountable for
their activities. Some have formally left the service of NIAS, while others occupy positions in public and
private organizations, yet most remain on the NIAS payroll.
Virtually no training activiies took place in 1998, nor were any meaningful research or consultancy
activities conducted during the life of the project. An expatriate consultant was placed in NIAS to initiate
research activities, but spend most of her time as a substitute for faculty away on training. At the time of
the ICR mission there was an air of mistrust toward NIAS due to the absence of a clear mandate. The
Ministry of Finance sfill considered NIAS to be only a center for secretarial training and steadily reduces
its budget. The Ministry also refused to approve any salary restructuring for NIAS staff, despite Cabinet
decisions to do so in 1994 and 1997, and despite NIAS staff claiming equivalence with university faculty
and decrying their own low salaries and status. With the civil service reform momentum supported by an
IDA project, the situation has since improved.
In regard to staff development, more than US$2.2 million was disbursed for training NIAS staff by the
project closing date. Of the 39 staff members who benefited from long-term training, 6 studied in the
United States, while the remaining 33 were placed for graduate study in Egypt and Jordan. Of those who
received fellowships in the United States, five returned to Yemen but all eventually left the service of NIAS.
The fellows who were placed in Egypt and Jordan overstayed the normal period needed to obtain their
diplomas. Most stayed for four years (some stayed even longer), studying general subjects not directly
related to their work at NIAS. This poor outcome can be attributed to the lack of supervision, as
candidates were not held accountable for their course programs and there was no evaluation of the
candidate's academic performance.  Moreover, there were delays in the disbursement of student
allowances, causing unnecessary hardship to the students. This was eventually resolved by contracting
supervision of the programs to an international agency, which also provided some guidance to the
candidates and ensured timely receipt of their allowances. In the area of staff development and training, the
IDA supervision missions should have been more thorough and should have verified the information.
The, short-term training in Jordan (60 staff members) was relevant to NIAS's needs, and participants
reported improvement in their performance. Local short-term training for NIAS staff in the branches was
also useful, and the subjects addressed their needs. However, the study tours were used to reward
particular individuals in the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) and the Central Office of
Control and Auditing (COCA), rather than to enhance the skills of NIAS personnel. In addition, the
number of countries visited was excessive, and there were no specific plans to visit relevant institutions
during those trips.
-9-



The budget allocated to expert services was under utilized. Three expatriate instructors were hired for
periods varying between 12 and 18 months but they were not involved in activity planning or improving
internal efficiency, nor did they develop new training materials, as had been intended. The research
specialist did not conduct any research, although one research project was designed but never implemented.
The previously mentioned defection of staff and the prevailing low morale hampered both innovation and
productivity at NIAS.
The Long-term Training Plan of Civil Service was finalized in 1999 after an 18-month delay due to a
payment dispute (see paras. below) between NIAS and the contractor, the Hague's Institute of Social
Sciences (ISS). The Government agreed to pay the dues, although actual payment was delayed until early
2002. The report presents a sound blueprint for NIAS's future organization, mandate, and its role in the
planned and urgently needed civil service reform; however, the plan still needs to be made more relevant to
the needs of NIAS and Yemen's civil service.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic rate of return was not calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rate of return was not calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall institutional impact was mimmal. MACSAR and NIAS benefited mainly from hardware (buildings
and equipment) and it would depend how these facilities would be used in the future to improve operation.
But, technical assistance and staff development efforts failed. They were poorly coordinated and
implemented piece meal and out of synch with each other.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Some of the factors affecting the project were beyond the control of the Government, which found it
necessary, throughout the life of the project, to focus primarily on the urgent issues of security and
macroeconomic stability. The project was therefore implemented in the absence of political attention and
leadership, with the PIUs at both MCSAR and NIAS having no guidance or supervision. Implementation
was reduced to a series of mechanical acts, without regard for the project's broader development objectives.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Even when the project was restructured and the objectives made less ambitious, no managerial mechanisms
were put in place, at either MCSAR or NIAS, to establish standards for quality control. In the absence of
such mechanisms, poor decisions were made concerning a number of important issues, including: (a)
selection of trainees, training design, follow-up, and the evaluation of trainees; (b) selection and
performance of consultants; (c) procurement and use of equipment, furniture, and vehicles; (d)
implementation and follow-up of studies; and (e) preparation of construction documents and supervision of
civil works. There was no accountability for results, with the two PIUs simply blindly processing requests
for purchases, payments, and routine work, at times even sending payments to the wrong accounts (see
below).
-10-



5.3 I'actors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation was also negatively affected by financial irregularities, which were revealed when a
contractor complained to the Resident Mission that he had never received his payment, which had been
made directly by IDA. Upon investigation, IDA discovered that the fimds were diverted into another
accoumt at the Commercial Bank of Yemen. The Resident Mission reported this to the Govermment, which
immcdiately launched its own investigation. An audit by COCA also revealed several violations and
irregularities in the use of NIAS accounts. In December 1998, IDA retained the services of an independent
auditor, Allied Accountants (AA) of Jordan, to examine the accounts. In the final reconciliation of the
Special Account (US$600,000), the Loan Department has disallowed about US$116,000 (US$69,000 that
was diverted outside the project and about US$47,000 due to inadequate documentation). The Government
refunded US$68,853.66 and US$11,904.86 to IDA in year 2000 and early 2002 respectively and submitted
eligible documentation for US$35,125.50 at the end of 2000. Subsequently, IDA proceeded with the direct
payments to two suppliers which were still pending at the time the credit closed.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The significant differences between appraisal estimates and actual costs are due to changes in project
financing. Initially, the Government was expected to finance 49 percent of civil works and 80 percent of
local training. During project implementation, it became apparent that the Government would be unable to
raise the necessary counterpart funding; therefore, IDA agreed to increase its financing of civil works from
51 to 90 percent. Training took place in Yemen, but it was conducted by the Jordan Institute of Public
Administration (JIPA), and was, therefore, 100 percent financed by the IDA credit.
The foreign costs include indirect foreign exchange components. Local costs, as in the case of civil works,
incluide payments in US dollars. Civil works contracts signed after 1995 (for NIAS facilities) were
denominated in US dollars and financed at 90 percent by the IDA credit. The 10 percent balances were paid
by thle Government in Yemeni rials converted at the time of payment at the rate set by the Central Bank of
Yemen (CBY). The older MCSAR contracts were more complex and were based on the following formula.
IDA financed 90 percent of the contract, with 40 percent of the payments converted to US dollars at the
rate of YR12.02 to the dollar; and 50 percent of the payments were paid in Yemeni rials and charged to the
credit at the CBY rate at the time of payment. The remaining 10 percent was paid by the Government in
Yemeni rials. These arrangements increased IDA financing requirements. The Govenmment share was
comrrspondingly decreased.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Despite the failures of this project, and now that political stability has been established, there is strong
support in Yemen to reform public administration and improve the system of governance. This will require
enhanced attention by executive agencies, particularly MCSAR and NIAS, to make use of, and build upon,
the skills and knowledge acquired through this project., Under new administrations, MCSAR and NIAS
have now changed and can provide the leadership that was lacking during project implementation. To that
end, the Government is seeking additional assistance to improve public sector management. It has obtained
financial support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) under grant funding for a
governance project, and prepared an IDA-financed Civil Service Modernization Project, which was
approved by the Bank's Board in May 2000 and is now effective and under implementation.
- 1 1 -



Supervision performance varied at different stages of project implementation. It was too casual at the
beginning and paid little attention to the lack of progress in key Government commitments for reform.
Supervision intensified after the mid-term review, when IDA responded in a timely manner to the need for
restructuring. As a result of improved supervision during the last two years, the borrower became more
engaged, and progress and disbursement performance improved significantly. These effort ensured the
completion of key components such as the new NIAS branch at Ibb, the NIAS extension at its Sana'a
campus; the overseas fellowships program, the new Computer Center, MCSAR's Headquarters; and five
project studies (four for MCSAR and one for NIAS).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Administrative reform and performance improvement are part of a continuous process that is intrinsic to
sustainable development. In recognition of this, the Government is interested in pursuing the objectives of
this project under new activities. The ongoing dialogue has been motivated by the acute awareness that
improvements in public management, public services, and institutional strengthening at the central,
regional, and local levels, are imperative for achieving economic and social development and political
stability.
The project's development objectives remain valid; however, future operations should incorporate a strong
mechanism to ensure quality through proper monitoring and continuous evaluation. The objectives should
be focused on the key issues of reform and policy management in public agencies, with emphasis on
reinforcing the institutional capacity to effectively implement development activities and deliver improved
public services. The human resources developed through previous training programs would be useful
assets for future activities, particularly for the Civil Service Modernization Project (see para. 6. 1).
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During project preparation, IDA's identification of key project elements was appropriate; however, there
were weaknesses in the assumptions and expectations on which the project was based, especially regarding
the sustained interest and involvement of key policymakers. The project was certainly also overly
ambitious for a developing country with strong ancient traditions. Appraisal was flawed in a number of
respects, which created implementation problems and led to the need for additional IDA resources. Some
cost elements were grossly underestimated. For example, expecting the Government to finance 49 percent
of the civil works and 80 percent of other local expenditures was unrealistic and points to poor judgment on
the part of the IDA project design team.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision performance varied at different stages of project implementation. It was too casual at the
beginning and paid little attention to the lack of progress in key Government commitments for reform.
Supervision intensified after the mid-term review, when IDA responded in a timely manner to the need for
restructuring. As a result of improved supervision during the last two years, the borrower became more
engaged, and progress and disbursement performance improved significantly. These effort ensured the
completion of key components such as the new NIAS branch at Ibb, the NIAS extension at its Sana'a
campus; the overseas fellowships program, the new Computer Center, MCSAR's Headquarters; and five
project studies (four for MCSAR and one for NIAS).
- 12 -



IDA also performed well in canceling unfeasible components and their corresponding credit allocations, and
in later responding favorably to the request for supplemental funds when implementation of the NIAS
conmponent picked up and it became apparent that the remaining funds would not cover commitments and
projected expenditures. IDA's agreement to finance a higher percentage of the civil works was also
appropriate.  In addition, IDA performed well in discovering and halting the mismanagement and
misappropriation of project funds, albeit very late in the implementation process, and in insisting on
auditing project accounts, which revealed significant weaknesses in the internal controls, which the
Government is currently addressing for future projects. An independent audit financed by IDA also
provided an objective evaluation of financial management and project implementation issues. This analysis
will. not only help the Government investigate the suspected misappropriation of funds but will also provide
the basis for reforming the financial management of future projects.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The World Bank office in Sana'a, with its local Arabic-speaking staff, had not yet been established in the:
early days of project implementation. While supervision became more effective when the Field Office was
established in 1995, its absence for the first five years of the project allowed many problems to go
unnoticed for a very long time, with members of the supervision missions simply having to accept the
information given to them by the PIU managers, who did not volunteer to translate certain negative:
outiomes that were well-documented in Arabic reports. The fact that the PIUs did not share these reports
contributed to IDA's lack of knowledge of day-to-day operations. It is also evident that training, which
absorbed more than one third of IDA credit, was carried out without the benefit of IDA supervision and
guidlance. The same was true of the selection and performance of consultants. More efficient supervision
could have averted many implementation problems, and increased the chances for the project to achieve its
development objectives.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's ownership of and interest in the project was strong during design and negotiations;
hovwever, events forced a shift in focus toward salvaging the political unity of the nation, protecting the
economy, and resolving the social crises created, first, by the aftermath of the Gulf War, and then by the
period of civil strife. Without the benefit of solid political control and guidance, the attempts of the
previous Minister of the Civil Service to unify the PIUs under his control, as proposed by IDA missions,
weie short lived, and were abandoned when he left office.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Governments performance was marginal and was uneven throughout project implementation.
Towvards the end of the Project, new administration became more seriously involved, but it was already too
late to correct already implemented programs that were poorly coordinated, resulting in minimal benefits.
This was particularly valid for training and institutional capacity building efforts. Another weakness inl
government performance was total absence of supervision of the two implementing units. They were left
completely on their own and although intentions were good in some respects neither had the knowledge or
the expertise to make policy decision that were critical to the success. of the Project. IDA wamed against
this weakness and suggested that the two implementation units be merged under a closer supervision of the
Ministry. But, this recommendation was never implemented.
- 13 -



7.6 ImplementingAgency:
In the midst of these numerous crises, the PIU managers were entrusted with a high level of autonomy, and
they distanced themselves from the two institutions they were supposed to serve. Moreover, there were no
checking mechanisms to ensure that the management actions taken would benefit the institutions in general.
Initiatives for civil service reform by MCSAR bode well for the future, as long as dialogue on the reform
issues addressed by this project is continued, and the investments in training and civil works made under
this project are well utilized. This is particularly important in the case of NIAS, the lessons of which need
to be carefully considered so that the same mistakes are not repeated in future projects.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The project's major objectives were not satisfactorily achieved, as the expected outcomes in both project
components were only partially realized. The policy improvements planned for public service management,
ministerial reorganization, computerization of civil service personnel records, and improvements in civil
service training and research activities, remain unfulfilled. The four studies carried out for MCSAR,
deemed necessary to provide a coherent foundation for activities leading to performance improvements,
have been of limited value. Although civil works were completed, the buildings either remain under utilized
(NIAS, because of the lack of furniture) or are being used for purposes other than those originally planned
(MCSAR's computer center). The equipment and vehicles procured are not being used to serve the
purposes for which they were obtained. Staff development is the project's only positive achievement,
despite the deficiencies in many activities and the fact that many of those trained (particularly in NIAS)
have left their jobs.
The project's outcome is largely a function of the circumstances under which it was implemented. Had
there been a stable political, social, and economic environment, and had there been more supervision on the
part of IDA and the Government of Yemen, the project may have achieved its objectives. Government
ownership of the project was clear at the beginning, but external circumstances caused ownership to
deteriorate. However, the authorities' renewed interest in public management and reform may now make it
possible to effectively utilize the Records Management Study, as well as the staff skills acquired through
the various training programs.
8. Lessons Learned
Despite the fact that the project was negatively affected by factors not under the borrower's control, and
that the project's reform and development objectives remain valid, the project produced several important
lessons for implementation and supervision:
(a)    Administrative reform projects require close supervision and continuous dialogue and
adaptability. In countries where traditional administrative practices exist, change is very difficult. Projects
seeking to achieve performance improvements and behavioral change at both the policy and executive levels
need to be closely monitored and continuously evaluated. While such responsibility rests primarily with the
borrower, IDA should provide the needed assistance and advice to ensure that targeted reforms are
accomplished. This is particularly important in countries with very limited capacity.
(b)    Staff development and training must be carried out in the context of a strategic plan that takes
into account both institutional needs and the career enhancement of the individuals concerned. These
factors should influence the training design, content, and duration. Criteria for selecting candidates should
be transparent and take into account the ability of the individual to benefit from the training. Much more
- 14 -



could have been accomplished through trainiing programs financed under this project if there had been a
better training selection process. It may even be relevant to include specific stipulations in credit or loan
agreements regarding training and the selection process, to ensure maximum benefit from proceeds
allocated for staff development. The Bank's focus of supervision gave low priority to training activities
and reported progress in numbers without further analysis on the relevance or quality of training.
(c)    The capacity for project management needs to be assured during the project design phase and
should be operational at the onset of project implementation. A key factor in the success of a project is
the adequate capacity for its implementation. Standards of managerial performance and decision making
authority should be clearly defined and transparent. A PIU should be established during project design,
have clear terms of reference and clear responsibility to report to higher ups, and be involved in all phases
of clesign and negotiations, to allow its managers to identify with the project and to own its content and
objectives.
(a)    Beneficiary institutions need to be involved in project implementation. The borrower should not
relinquish all project matters and management to technical PIUs, which are not equipped to make policy
decisions. Although the use of PIUs which are able to attract technically competent staff-is a practical
approach to managing day-to-day activities management arrangements should also include mechanisms that
effectively engage the beneficiary institutions when critical policy decisions and capacity-building efforts
are involved.
(e)    Supervision missions should include staff (especialy local filed office staff) with language
abiities, who can examine records in the borrower's official language and comfortably engage officials in
dialogue in their own vernacular. In the case of this project, many problems could have been avoided had
supervision missions included an Arabic-speaking member.
6)     Physical assets should be managed and properly maintained through a systematic inventory
control system. At present, Yemen has no system to ensure that assets acquired through public funds are
installed and used as intended, and properly maintained.
(g)    Soundfinancial management and internal controls are criticalfor curbing corruption and the
mismanagement offunds. Despite the excess control and scrutiny - of the project by MOPD and more
recently by MOF, there is still risk of financial mismanagement in future projects. The current control
systems need to be reexamined, and more effective controls introduced, without necessarily creating more
bureaucracy.
(h)    There is a need for both internal and external audit functions. COCA should be assigned an
internal rather than external audit role, and external audits should be assigned to independent auditors. It
should be noted that COCA's external audits of the project did not detect that the NIAS PIU maintained
two illegal accounts at the Commercial Bank of Yemen and was able to transfer funds from the Special
AccDunt into these accounts. This points to weaknesses in the internal approval and payment processing
functions at both MOPD and the Commercial Bank of Yemen. Further analysis and reforms are needed to
prevent similar problems in the future.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Btorrower/implementing agency:
Letter to the Minister of MCSAR and Summary Report Prepared by a Special Committee appointed by the
- 15 -



Minister (Reality Evaluation Committee) is presented below unedited.
B. Eng. Muhammad Ahmad Al-Junaid
Minister of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
Greetings,
On the basis of Ministerial Resolution No. (157) of 1997 concerning the constitution of a Committee to
evaluate the reality of the National Institute of Public Administration and the Institutional Development of
Public Administration Project, the Committee has the pleasure to submit to your excellency its report on the
results that it has arrived at, despite the difficulties that impeded the accomplishment of the task at the
appointed time. The most important of these difficulties were:-
* Non-co-operation of some officials of the Project with the Committee in furnishing some of the
documents and attachments which the Committee considered it necessary that they be furnished.
* The co-incidence of the Committee undertaking its tasks with the Central Organ for Accounts and Audit
undertaking the audit of the Project's accounts - Component [B] of the National Institute, and the
observations and violations that it exposed, the most important of them being the embezzlements which
have been incorporated in the report submitted to you by the Organ and currently under the
consideration of the competent judicial quarters.
* The change effected to the Institute leadership and the drop-out of some medium-level leaderships from
the Institute, in addition to the constructions works that were being executed at the time, led to the
dispersal of the documents and difficulties in obtaining them with facility.
Hereunder are the following:-
A summary of the most important contents of the detailed report (attached):
First: Component (A) subordinated to the Civil Service:
I.    Project Management:
Two managements have been witnessed by the Institute during the period from since its founding in 1989
until 1997. There is nothing that evidences that the two managements undertook management of the Project
and utilization of the credit competently and effectively to benefit from the external funding to modernize
the administration in the administration organ according to the objectives of the agreement The Committee
discovered that the Project management had not undertaken some tasks and responsibilities provided for in
the credit agreement and the ministerial resolutions concerning the formation of the Project management
(details in the appended report).
2.     Civil Works:
These were represented by the construction of an engineerily designed building which was prepared for the
purpose of being used by the Computer Unit. The cost of the building, along with paving of the Ministry
compound and creating a car park roof until 31/12/1997, and on the basis of data furnished to the
Committee, amounted to US$ 512,966.
The building and its furbishings were not utilized in an exemplary manner nor was it benefited from for the
purpose for which it had been constructed. It was used as an office for the Minister, a meetings haUl and
some other departments. The third floor of the old building was set for the use of the Computer Unit after
- 16 -



its arnendment at an additional cost of US$ 97,000 and YR 440,000.
3.     Equipment and Machinery:
Computer Unit:
The Higher Tenders Committee gave its approval for the import of a computer unit to operate an
inter -linked and integrated data sytem for administration in the civil service, with technical specifications
suited to the objectives of the credit to develop management in the administration organ in the Yemen, and
that at a cost of US$ 691,354.
The approval contained many conditions, among them a seven years maintenance guarantee within the
contract price. However, the import was made for another computer unit with amendments to the core of
the original specifications, which rendered the original specifications disfigured and full of faults.
Moreover, the unit supplied according to the amendments is considered to be of backward technology.
Furthermore, the amendments entailed that the state undertake payment of 10% of the value of the supply
conbtact annually for maintenance.
Thus, the costs expended for the supply of a computer unit and amounting to US$ 486,518, and without the
cost of maintenance, is considered to be a waste of public funds, as has been underlined by the World Bank
in one of its correspondences to the Project management. It should be noted that the said unit (the
computer) has not realized linkage and integration of data in the civil service, despite its existence and
operation since 1994 (more details in the attached report).
Furniture:
Most of the furniture supplied is suited to the use of the computer. The cost of the furniture supplied until
31/12/1996 and according to what is shown by the Project registers and statements amounts to US$
362,783. It has appeared to the Committee that what has been received on a temporary basis is in the value
of US$ 309,662. No technical inspection has been carried out by the committee formed for the purposes of
technical inspection and receipt according to specifications as the committee was not enabled to peruse the
tender documents (specifications) to carry out the technical inspection and verification.
The furniture supply measures were disfigured by some violations which have been clarified in the attached
detaiiled report.
4.     Training and acguaintance visits to abroad:
Short and medium term traininx:
Until 31/12/1996 the amount of US$ 664,673 has been expended from the credit on short and medium-term
training. From the attachments that have been furnished to the Committee it appears that no benefit has
beent made from the funding allocated for training for the following reasons:-
* Random selection of training programs without prior study to determine the spheres and types of
programs required to serve the Project objectives..
* Absence of fundamentals and criteria (according to the contents of the Agreement) for the selection of
triainees, which led to the despatch of employees with low qualifications, such as less than the
preparatory stage certificate, and in spheres that require university qualifications. It should be noted that
- 17 -



the Agreement made high qualifications a condition for despatch to abroad for training. There also was
repetition of despatch of some employees for more than one time and, sometimes, despatch of some
employees was for the purposes of treatment or the improvement of their living conditions.
Acquaintance visits to abroad:
An amount of US$ 377,000 has been expended to cany out visits by six groups covering 28 persons, from
among the leaderships of the ministry and the Ministry of Planning and Development to some European and
Middle Eastem countries. There are no reports clarifying the extent to which there has been benefit from
such visits and their yield. Furthermore, the Committee was not enabled to peruse all the attachments and
the supporting documents pertaining to the disbursement of the amount referred to above.
The purpose was to verify the undertaking of the acquaintance visits to abroad by those covered by the six
groups as regards duration, travel allowances and the airlines used, as well as the other expenses and
transport whose cost amounted to US$ 56,696 and the extent to which such expenditure was legal,
especially as travel allowance for each person was disbursed in excess of what has been determined by the
Prime Minister's resolution concerning allowances.
Second: Results of evaluation and audit of the Institutional Development Project: Chapter two:
1.     Results of the evaluation of Phase One of the Project's life:
Its duration is seven years extending from 1989 until June, 1995 and constituting 88% of the Project's life
as detemiined by the Agreement
The following has become clear:-
The process of implementation and utilization of the credit amount during this phase proceeded very
slowly as the ratio of the amounts ufilized during this phase amounted to 24% of the allocations made
from the credit. This matter makes clear the failure of the Project management in utilizing and
implementing the Project components during this Phase and, consequently, not realizing the objectives
targeted by the Project and that despite the elapse of seven years of the Project's life which produced
negative effects. These are as follows:-
The quarter granting the credit excluded the amount of US$ 2,458,900 from the credit thereby
depriving the country from benefiting therefrom.
Having the country bear interest on utilization fees calculated at the rate of 0.5% on the approved
amounts that were not utilized.
Results of evaluation of Second Phase of the Project's life:
This phase extends from 1995 until mid-1998 after extension of the withdrawals period twice each year.
It has become clear that the process of implementation of the Project components during this Phase
proceeded in a good manner, but was characterized by numerous excesses and violations, which will be
reviewed in brief here and in a detailed manner in the detailed report and that according to the primary
components of the Project as follows:-
- 18 -



2.1 Civil Works (Buildings!:
The;e are represented by the execution of the following tenders:-
* Completion of the construction of the second floor, the registration building, the guard rooms and the
surrounding wall of the Institute building in Sana'a.
* Institute buildings and teachers' housing in Ibb.
The process of implementing these buildings was characterized by deviations and excesses as is shown in
detail in the detailed report, and which are summarized as follows:-
1. Presence of great aspects of shortcomings in the process of preparing studies, drawings, specifications
and the primary bills of quantities which were prepared for the execution of the two tenders. This is
clear from the emergence of problems at the outset of implementation, in addition to the effecting of
numerous amendments to the specifications of the two tenders upon execution.
2. The presence of aspects of weakness and shortcomings in the process of supervision over the execution
of these two buildings. It should be noted that the preparation of drawings and specifications, as well as
the process of supervision, was undertaken by the Project management alone and the Ministry of
Constructions was not invblved therein according to the governing laws.
3. The Project management undertook execution of some works at the Institute building in Sana'a at costs
magnified by 100% over the prices of execution when compared with the execution prices adopted by
the Ministry of Constructions (as a legal referral) and for the same works executed on time.
4. TFhe Project management undertook disbursement of amounts to the Sana' Institute building contractor
within the expended amounts for works not executed in reality. The total amount that could be
monitored is US$ 15,251.
5. T7he presence of a number of technical observations on the works executed in the Sana'a and Ibb
buildings.
6. The Project management creating problems in a willful manner with the contractor executing the Ibb
buildings tender.
2.2 Eguipment. furniture and motor vehicles:
1.     Evaluation of activities pertaining to effecting procurement operations:
Non-preparation of procurement requisitions, specifications, and bills of quantities in a sound and
precise manner which resulted in the Project management not effecting a number of amendments to
some of the procurement tenders after signing the contracts.
Non-recording of most of the procured assets, such as vehicles and so on in the warehouse registers,
whether at the time of stocking or disposal.
The Project management failing to take any measures against suppliers who delayed the delivery
process, and in particular the computer hardware.
Fornation of all procurement committees (specifications committee/analysis committee, etc.) with the
joint membership of the same employees.
2.     Evaluation of activities of actual utilization of assets:
From the reality of the disbursement operations related to equipment, furmiture and motor vehicles which
were procured it became clear that these were being utilized by the Project alone. This is contrary to what
is supposed of the Project management preparing these potentials and handing them over to the competent
sections at the Institute, and in particular the computers and the motor vehicles, etc. to realize benefit
- 19 -



therefrom.
3.     Evaluation of warehouses used by the Project:
* Irregularity of the process of utilization of warehouse registers and the unsound measures of stocking
and disposal of the warehouse contents, in addition to the non-tallying of corresponding warehouse
registers.
* The head of the procurements sections at the Project undertaking the work of the store-keeper in
addition to his participation in all of the procurement committees.
* Appearance of deficits in the contents of the warehouses of the Project in respect of 40 types.
* Appearance of differences (by increase) in the contents of the warehouses for twelve types, which
shows the random dealing with the warehouses contents in respect of disposal and receipt on the basis
of oral orders and in a personal manner.
* The absence of a number of procured types, such as equipment, motor vehicles, etc. in the actual
inventory lists.
2.3.d - Consultancy services and studies:
A - d : Experts:
* Absence of prior planning and programming on sound fundamentals and criteria for the summoning of
experts with whom the Project had contracted.
* Contracts were concluded with experts who were not of competence allowing to benefit from them,
especially as some of them were ordinary employees in the Yemen.
* Non-adherence of the experts with the contracts concluded with them.
* Not benefiting from the experts in training the local counter-parts.
* The occurrence of some malpractices in the disbursement of the entitlements and privileges of such
experts.
4.     Study on the training requirements in the civil service:
This study was executed by the Social Studies Institute in the Netherlands. It has become clear that the
Project management transferred the amounts of a number of withdrawal requisitions expended from the
value of the study contract to a special account in the name of the Project opened with the Commercial
Bank branch in Taiz Street. The total amount transferred is US$ 97,151.
2.4 Scholarships. traiing and field visits:
1.     Scholarships and Higher Studies:
It has become clear that a number of those despatched abroad have completed their studies and did not
return to work at the Institute according to the objective of despatching them.
It has become clear that some of those despatched for study have continued there, even though the
period necessary and determined for them to complete the study has ended, and their financial
allocations continue to be disbursed without any knowledge of their stand.
The Project management and the Institute have failed to undertake continual follow-up of annual
reports on the students in respect of regular educational attainment first by first.
The Committee has reservations as regards the disbursement of the students' entitlements through
AMIDEAST owing to the unavailability of documents.
-20 -



2.     Short-term training courses abroad:
* It has become clear that in the implementation of some of these programs the aid of some specialist
establishments was enlisted and many exaggerated costs were paid to them, even though these
programs could have been executed by the Institute itself.
* The monopolization of the execution of several programs by a single quarter (the Administration
Institute in Amman), although the said Institute has not adhered to the execution of the items of the
contract concluded with it.
3.     External field visits:
* It has become clear that there was gross manipulation of the field visits program (Germany, Belgium,
Holland) in respect of the third group, be that as regards travel allowances, tickets or the non-travel by
all members of the group as a whole.
* It has become clear that there was fraud committed in the program related to attendance of the seminar
on the future of special education held in Cairo, as travel allowances were disbursed to the members of
the groups without their actual travel.
2.5 General Observations:
Absence of a sound filing system at the Project.
Irregular entry and registration operations in all financial, accounting and warehousing registers.
The relevant supervisory quarters' failure to undertake their control roles before approval of
disbursements operations of the Project, which implies the collusion of these quarters, such as the
Ministry of Planning, the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank.
Third: Institute Properties
There was a review and evaluation of the istitute properties which were purchased from its budget and the
credits and aid it had received. The results were as follows:-
1. The Institute's sale of the equipment granted to it by the Central Planning Organ to benefit from and
preserve them, and not sell them off.
2. The Institute's sale of printing equipment to the Moral Guidance Department without our knowing the
nature or the value of the sale.
3. A deficit was found in the following:-
Nine (9) types of audio-visual equipment.
Ten (10) types of equipment, air-conditioners and machinery which the annual inventory taking
committee of 1997 did not take up.
Twenty four (24) types of machinery disbursed from the warehouses in the trust of a number of
employees during 1995 - 1997 without their being mentioned in the 1997 inventory taking.
4. The failure to take any proper measures to retrieve 429 books that were loaned to the Institute
employees from the library during the period 1980 - 1998.
5. Five (5) motor vehicles ownership was finally transferred and three (3) temporarily transferred. We
were unable to ascertain what had been done by the Institute in respect of two motor vehicles that were
stolen, an engine detained by the traffic police and a 1976 model car no. 284 that is still in the
workshop.
- 21 -



Revenues and fees status:
From the review and evaluation the following has become clear:-
1. The failure to issue a regulation that organizes the process of collecting fees and disbursements by the
Dean of the Institute to this date.
2. The failure to pay in the amount of YR 1,469,284 into the public account of the government and which
is the remaining part of the 30% of the fees collected and which have been spent by the Institute.
3. The failure of those concerned to calculate, deduct and pay in the income tax at the rate of 16% of the
amounts expended from the fees accounts and the relevant amount is YR 1,850,033.
4. Institute's violation of the resolution of the Prime Minister to calculate 40% of the fees only for the
branches and not 70%.
Status of reconciliation of conditions of the teaching and training staff of the Institute:
The review, inspection and evaluation makes the following clear-
1. Absence of a system of selection and appointment of the members of the teaching and training staff at
the Institute until the beginning of 1997.
2. The Institute Dean issuing a regulation on posting criteria that determined the highest level of posting
at the degree of teacher and professor and this entailed deprivation of the rights of the senior teachers
and trainers of the Institute by determining the period of service during the period 1974 - 1983 at two
years being one year for the purposes of promotion.
3. The Posting Committee adopted the researches and consultancies standard as the major criteria for
filling out the posting form and from which only those who learnt of it benefited, while those who did
not hear of it from among the senior staff with evidenced experience and activity did not realize any
benefit.
4. The same form that was distributed at the Institute was also distributed among the branches, despite the
knowledge of the Committee that the activities and spheres of the branches are less than those of the
center and by this the rights of a large number of the branches' cadres to posting were done away with.
5. A specimen form was prepared to calculate the years of experience from 1985 until 1993, while the
standards of the posting regulation determined that the years of experience of the teaching staff member
should be calculated from 1984 until 1993 and by this those with seniority were deprived of one year
that should have been calculated for the purposes of promotion.
6. The number of those covered by posting in the lists is 153, while there are only 142 files which means
11 files less and those concerned report that these were lost but they do not know how they were lost or
the reasons behind their being lost.
7. Absence of copies of qualifications certified by the Committee in some files, even though they are to be
found in other files.
8. The Posting Committee did not make it a condition that copies of the completed research papers and
consultancies be appended and be deemed a part of the files' documents.
9. A number of the teaching staff did not - through their signatures - admit the posting they had received
from the Committee.
10. A number of members of the teaching and training staff covered by the posting dropped out of the
Institute following the issue of the Civil Service's formal opinion no. (26/CS/94) on 25/7/1994.
From what has been reviewed of the observations and violations that the Committee arrived at in the light
of what was available to it of statements and information, and as the Project is about to end with the end of
the current year (1998), the Committee submits the following recommendations:-
Obligate the Project management to carry out a comprehensive inventory of all of its assets, their
- 22 -



places of presence and their conditions so that these can be handed over officially to the beneficiary
quarters and this should be documented in their registers so as to make control over them more
effective in the future.
Obligate the quarters benefiting from the equipment, implements, apparatuses and furniture funded by
the Project to maintain them, act to benefit from them and utilize them in an exemplary manner, and
particularly the computer hardware handed over to the National Institute and the Ministry, along with
the photocopiers and other equipment
Reconsider the distribution of the Project motor vehicles to the quarters that are most in need for them
and, in particular, the branches of the National Institute in the govemorates.
Adopt the necessary measures to bring to book those involved in the commitment of violations cited in
the report, and in the light of the accountability, adopt the necessary legal measures in respect thereof.
Create an appropriate system for preserving the current properties of the Institute, and action for
clarification of the benefits accrued to the Institute by previous sale operations of some properties and
whose value remains unknown to the Committee.
Adopt the appropriate measures in respect of the deficits, particularly in various appartuses and types
of machinery.
Adopt the appropriate measures to retrieve the books loaned to the beneficiaries and underline the
return system.
Pay in the revenues of the government account at the rate of 30% of the fees collected first by first and
calculate 70% of the fees in favour of the branches.
Reconsider the reconciliation of the status of the teaching and training staff at the Institute on the basis
of the selection and appointment system as determined by the Organizational Regulation No. (3) of
1997 and Article No. (33) and on the basis of the job description resolution issued by the Minister of
Civil Service No. (4) of 1994 and create posting fundamentals in accordance therewith.
Those are the most important observations that have been arrived at through the inspection and review
carried out by the Committee.
It is requested that these be perused and directives be issued for the implementation of the recommendations
contained in the report or that which you consider appropriate.
Accept our best regards and high appreciation.
Ahrrad Saleh Saif                               Committee Chairman
Abdllllah Al-Dar                                Committee member
Ahbrrad Al-Harbi                                Committee member
Jameel Al-Areeqi                                Committee member
Tareq Salah Al-Masri                            Committee member
c.c with compliments:-
Chairman, Central Organ for Accounting and Audit
Minister of Finance
Minister of Planning and Development
Dean, National Institute of Administration Sciences
- 23 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
In view of the complexity of issues not easily explained in the ICR text, the ICR mission's Aide-memoire is
attached below for information.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMENISTRATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2015-YEM)
PART III. ANNEXES
Annex 1. February 1999 Implementation Completion Mission
Aide-memoire
1.     An IDA mission consisting of Vasilios C. Demetriou visited Yemen from February 15-21 to
discuss and finalize the findings of the August/September 1998 implementation completion mission carried
out by Messrs. Vasilios C. Demetriou (Senior Implementation Specialist, MNSHD) and Ragaa Makharita
(Public Administration Specialist, Consultant), and Mme. Patricia Maughan (Consultant). Support and
follow-up were provided by Messrs. Qaiser Khan and Ali Husni of the Resident Mission in Sana'a. The
mission devoted about 6 days to finalizing the findings of the August/September 1998 mission, which were
inconclusive due to the unavailability of documents, and to the ongoing investigations of fraud and the
misappropriation of funds. The mission also attended a National Conference on Technical Education and
Vocational Training (February 23-27, 1999), and participated in the appraisal of the Child Development
Project.
2.     The mission met with H. E. Eng. Mohammed A. Al-Junaid, Minister of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform; Mr. Anwar Al-Harazi, Deputy Minister of Planning and Development; Mr. Abdul
Rahman Daiban, Dean of the National Institute of Administrative Services (NIAS); and the new Project
Director of the NIAS Project Implementation Unit (PIU), Mr. Mohammed Al Siragi, and his staff. The
mission also met with the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform's (MCSAR's) PIU Project
Accountant, Mr. Naimi, and discussed the final statements submitted for the MCSAR component. H. E.
Minister Eng. Mohammed Al-Junaid confirmed that the Government would do its best to facilitate
preparation of the ICR. The mission wishes to thank all concemed officials for their candidness in dealing
-24 -



with controversial matters, and for their cooperation and hospitality.
PrDject Objectives and Description
3.     Project objectives. The project was approved on May 12, 1989 and became effective on April 12,
1990. The project's original development objective was to improve public administration through the
institutional development of both MCSAR and the National Institute for Administrative Services (NIAS).
In particular, the project aimed to: (a) improve MCSAR's capacity to fulfill its operational and advisory
obligations to major government agencies for manpower and training planning, personnel administration,
and various aspects of operational and procedural effectiveness; and (b) increase NIAS's capability to
provide education, training, research, and consultancy services to government agencies. The project was
restructured and its specific objectives simplified in 1995, as it was found that the original objectives were
too ambitious-due, among other things, to the Ministry's diversion of attention in the aftermath of the
civil war.
4.     Project descnrpdon. To assist MCSAR and NIAS in achieving these objectives, the project
[originally] provided technical assistance, staff development,, civil works, equipment/furniture, and
logistical support. The MCSAR components were designed to help MCSAR: (a) evaluate and improve the
operations and management, personnel and administrative policies, and the manpower and training planning
of Government agencies; (b) establish a Management Information System (MIS) for the civil service and
pubilic sector; and (c) assess the consistency of its structure with respect to its functions andl
responsibilities. The NIAS components were designed to help NIAS: (a) improve the quality, efficiency,
and. coverage of education, training, and research, and strengthen consultancy programs; (b) meet its staff
shortages through expatriate teacher support while Yemeni staff are away on fellowships; (c) plan
long-term manpower development in the public sector; and (d) establish appropriate institutional decision
making structures and processes. Both institutions also were to benefit from significant investments in
construction and equipment to improve their facilities.
5.     After the project was restructured, the simplified MCSAR components consisted of the civil works
(Ministry building and the computer center) and related equipment and furniture, and completing the four
stu(ies. The reorganization of nine government agencies was discarded as unfeasible. The fellowships
program was already completed when the project was restructured. The simplified NIAS components
consisted of the civil works at Sana'a and Ibb campuses and related equipment and furniture, completion of
the fellowships programs in Jordan and Egypt, and completion of one study: Long Term Training Plan of
Civil Service in Yemen. Research and consultancy services were considered as unfeasible in the remaining
implementation period.
Supiplemental Credit
6.     Shortfalls in project funding occurred after the project was restructured, due to cancellation of part
of the credit and devaluation of the SDR. The original credit amount was SDR 8.2 million (US$10.8
mil]ion equivalent). After cancellation of SDR 2 million (US$3 million equivalent)-considered a surplus
when the project was restructured-and devaluation of the SDR, the remaining credit was SDR 6.2 million
(US$8.88 million equivalent. The supplemental credit brought the total level of IDA assistance to SDR
7.3', million (US$10.42 equivalent. Furthermore, IDA's agreement to finance a higher percentage of the
civil works (from 51% to 90%) also contributed to the shortfalls. Therefore, a supplemental credit of
US$1.54 million equivalent was approved by the Board on October 14, 1997. The additional funds
covered:
(a)    Civil works, specifically: (i) balances due for the MCSAR building, estimated at US$0.20 million;
- 25 -



and (ii) balances due for the Ibb and Sana'a campuses of NIAS, estimated at US$0.20 million. The
balances were paid and the works were completed within the expected timeframe.
(b)    Equipment and furniture for the newly completed NIAS facilities at Sana'a and Ibb, at an
estimated cost of US$0.55 million. Tendering and evaluation for this procurement have been completed;
however, awards cannot be made until funding is assured. Unless these items can be financed, the entire
investment will have been wasted, as it will not be possible to conduct effective training without proper
furniture and equipment. The contracts for equipment and furniture were allegedly fraudulent according to
the Central Organization for Control and Auditing (COCA)-and therefore were canceled (see para. 8).
Since it was too late to invite fresh tenders, the facilities remain without some essential teaching equipment
and have only minimal furniture borrowed from existing campuses, and are thus unable to operate to their
full capacity.
(c)    Training, to enable NIAS faculty members to finish their master's programs at overseas
universities, at an estimated cost of US$0.63 million. Upon their return, they are expected to teach at
NIAS, thus significantly enhancing the academic and professional qualifications of its faculty. Of the 22
students who studied in Jordan, 19 have graduated and are now with NIAS; two have dropped out; and one
is seeking further assistance from the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) to complete his
studies by September 1999. Of the 11 students who studied at the Sadat Academy in Egypt, only 7 are
expected to graduate by June 1999. Most of them returned to Yemen during 1998/99 to reduce costs until
they were ready to return and defend their theses. IDA was given assurances about these programs when
the supplemental credit was requested.
Overview of Results
7.     MCSAR. All of the simplified project activities have been completed (works, goods, training,
studies, and technical assistance). The new MCSAR facilities, including the computer center, are now fully
operational. Four fellowships in the United States, as well as technical assistance and local training
activities, have been completed. The four studies under the project have been completed and final reports
submitted.
8.     NIAS. Results for NIAS have been mixed. The civil works at the Sana'a campus have been
completed and NIAS is already using the facilities, although with limited furniture (see para. 6b). It is still
not clear whether the furniture contract was fraudulent, as claimed by COCA, as the evidence so far is
inconclusive. The matter is to be resolved by the courts. Because of additional costs incurred in the
execution of civil works, a Government committee (comprising members from MOPD, MCSAR, NIAS,
Public Works, and COCA) reviewed the contractor's claims and agreed to a 34 percent increase in the
original contract amount. The Ibb campus has also been completed; however, NIAS was not given
possession of the site until recently, after disputes with the contractor were resolved. In this contract,
claims amounted to 48 percent over the original contract amount due to extraordinary foundation
conditions (which were witnessed by IDA staff during construction) and underestimation of the external
works. However, even with these extras, neither contract exceeded the average cost per square meter for
similar buildings. The value of these two contracts was increased, in accordance with the amended values,
to allow for the final payments and 10 percent retentions to be made. Books purchased at the Cairo book
fair in February 1998 have been delivered (but have not yet been paid for). An amount of US$30,000 had
been advanced to the former PIU Director for payment, but no payment was made and the US$30,000 is
now missing. The total value of books received from the Al-Ahram agency is about US$54,000. All
equipment deliveries have been made, with the exception of the furniture mentioned above. All local
training activities have been implemented. Six fellowships in the United States have been completed. In
- 26 -



addition, two fellows have recently returned from Jordan and have rejoined NIAS at Sana'a and Ibb. The
II and 22 fellowships in Egypt and Jordan, respectively, have also been completed. A draft report on the
long-term training study was recently finalized by the Hague's Institute of Social Sciences (ISS), after a
delay due to a payment dispute. The study contains recommendation that could be a blueprint for NIAS's
future development.
9.     Disbursements. About US$9.64 million (92 percent of the credit, including the supplement of
US$1.54 million) has been disbursed, while about US$0.35 million of the remaining credit balance of
US$0.81 million is fully committed and should be disbursed before the end of the six-month grace period.
A cancellation of about US$0.46 million is anticipated due to cancellation of the furniture contract and
other activities that could be not implemented on time.
10.   Audit Reports. The audit report for FY97 was prepared by COCA and submitted in June 1998.
A draft for discussion was submitted to the mission. Neither report mentioned any of the irregularities
revealed by the subsequent COCA and IDA investigations (see para. 11).
Financial Management Issues
11.   NL4S-Alleged misappropriation of funds by the former PIU Director. It was discovered in
April 1998, when a contractor complained about not receiving a direct payment made by IDA, that a
nuriber of payments had been diverted into the former PIU director's accounts in the Commercial Bank of
Yemen (one project account and one private account). The Resident Mission demanded that an immediate
investigation be carried out by the Govemment and prompt action was taken. An investigation by COCA
found that additional accounts (project and personal) were being used by the former PIU Director. He was
arrested by Yemeni authorities, and NIAS hired a new Project Director, Mr. Mohamed Al-Siragi. With the
exoeption of Mr. Al-Siragi, a new project accountant, and a new procurement officer, the other staff remain
the same. An examination of various documents made it clear that information on withdrawal applications
sent to the Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) was different from information provided on the
applications sent to IDA. The copies sent to MOPD contained the beneficiary's correct bank account
number, while the copies sent to IDA showed account number 1021418 (project account in commercial
bank) or number 1004520 (former PIU Director's personal account). Investigations by IDA and COCA
revealed that this account had a total of US$1,710,563 in transactions between August 8, 1996 and
Febnrary 2, 1998. The balance on February 2, 1998 was US$31. The COCA investigation revealed that
nine transactions, totaling US$249,740, had not been made to project contractors, as the former PIU
Director subsequently claimed; rather, they had been transferred to either of the two commercial accounts.
After further adjustments (subtracting US$30,000 kept in the PIU safe, and adding the US$30,000 advance
drawn for paying Al-Ahram publishing house and the US$37,950 transferred to the personal accounts of
the former PIU Director), the final figure of allegedly misappropriated funds amounts to US$287,690. This
experience points to the need for IDA to check the validity of account numbers on each withdrawal
application.
12.   MCSAR. MCSAR's PIU Director left the project in May 1998 and is now working for UNDP.
The accountant, procurement officer, and secretary were retained until June 30, 1998. The accountant and
secretary continued to work for the project until December 1998; then, from July 1998 until December 31,
1993, a new procurement officer and assistant were used. IDA was not consulted on these actions, and it is
not clear why they were necessary, since all procurement activities had been completed 12 months earlier.
- 27 -



Preparations for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
13. The format and content of the ICR, as well as the Government's contribution, were discussed during
the May 1998 mission, and the mission team provided both PlUs with several sample ICRs and the IDA's
guidelines on ICRs. Both PIUs have been collecting relevant information for the ICR, and will be ready to
prepare their parts after IDA's portion of the ICR is cleared intemally and submitted to the Govemment for
comment.
Analysis of Project Implementation: MCSAR
14. Overall, this component disbursed US$0.51 million less than its allocation, not taking into account
the Special Account (SA) advance, which is being recovered. Amounts disbursed, by category, are shown
in Table 1.
Table 1. Disbursements by Category for Part A (MCSAR component only)
Cat.  Description                  Allocation (US$)  Disbursed (UJS$) Undisbursed
1-A   Civil works                   1,198,215.46    894,202.16      304,013.30
2-A   Equipment, furniture, and    1,200,166.15      1,364,298.93   -164,132.78
vehicles                                                                     __
3-A   Consultant services          945,499.17       522,531.64      422,967.53
4-A   Training and fellowships     1,104,462.15      1,158,994.50    -54,532.35
TOTAL                        4,448,342.93     3,940,027.23    508,315.7
Note: Minus sign before undisbursed amount indicates cost overrun.
The table excludes Category 5 (refund), SA advances, and the unallocated category, which is shared by
both components. Further adjustments are being made, and the recovery of the SA is in progress. About
38 percent (US$1.55 million) of the credit allocated to MCSAR was disbursed under state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) through the SA.
Category l-A Civil works
15.    All civil works contracts under this component have been completed, and payments, including the
10 percent retention, have been made. No further payments are due. The works were completed under two
contracts: (a) construction of the computer center, which was later modified to become the office and
training facility for the Ministry; and (b) construction of external works and the car shed in the Ministry
compound, and paving..
16.    The building was contracted to Mohamed Al-Asbahi at YR17.6 million. The contract value
increased to YR18.2 million after variation orders (US$0.94 million equivalent). IDA disbursed US$0.84
million (90 percent) against this contract on the following basis: 40 percent of payments in US dollars at
the conversion rate of YR12.02 to the US dollar, and 50 percent of payments in Yemeni rials at the official
rate of the Central Bank of Yemen at the time of payment. The 10 percent balances were made in rials by
the Government.
17.    The external works, paving, and car shed were also contracted to Mohamed Al-Asbahi, as an
- 28 -



extension of his larger building contract, at YR3.1 million, which increased to YR3.5 million due to
variation orders (US$0.14 million). IDA disbursed about US$0.12 million (90 percent) against this
contract on the basis described above.
Category 2-A Equipment, furniture, and vehicles
18.    Goods were provided through 10 contracts. IDA disbursed about US$1.3 million against these
contracts (mostly on 100 percent cif basis). The largest contract was for the computer system, at US$0.49
mili on, which was installed in the existing building instead of in a new computer building. Additional work
costing about US$100,000 was carried out to prepare the existing site. The second-largest contract was for
the procurement of furniture for the new building, at about US$0.31 million. In the mission's view, some of
this furniture was extravagant
CatEgory 3-A Consultant services
19.   IDA disbursed about US$0.6 million against this category; the major part of the funds
(US$9382,000) financed four studies (see para. 20). The project also financed several small contracts for
training and training-related activities; a study by Arthur Anderson for COCA (US$163,000); the services
of lical consultants hired to assist with project restructuring in 1995 (US$21,000); and the salaries of PIU
staff from January 1998 to December 1998 (US$28,500) There are no further payments pending.
20.    The four studies were: (a) Records Management (US$80,000), prepared by the Jordan Institute of
Public Administration (JIPA); (b) Wages and Salary Structures in Yemen Civil Service (US$76,000), by
the Center for Professional Management Expertise (TEAM), a subsidiary of a Palestinian consulting firm;
(c) Jobs Classification (US$101,000), by the University of Jordan; and (d) Human Resources
Man,!agement and Personnel Policies (US$125,000), by JIPA. Extensive comments were made by IDA
during the preparation stage of the studies. All studies were completed by mid-1997 but all had limited
impact. The jobs classification study was too theoretical; the salary and wage study recommendations were
not feasible, and the human resources study was not relevant in the Yemeni context. The records
management study could have had useful applications, and earlier missions had suggested that MCSAR
imp]lement the study recommendations in one or more Government agencies (including MCSAR itself), but
the Ministry has taken no action in this regard.
Category 4-A Training
21.    The project financed many ad hoc training and study visits abroad, mostly in Jordan and Egypt.
As there was no plan or strategy for these activities, no record of the agencies from which the beneficiaries
came, and no transparent selection criteria for trainees (some trainees were later found to have traveled for
medical treatment, not for study), it is difficult to assess the impact of the activities or whether they
coniributed to achieving the project's objectives. Training carried out in this manner cost close to US$0.5
million, almost 50 percent of the total US$1.1 million spent on training under the MCSAR component.
Initially, each fellowship was managed by the PIU, with the cooperation of the embassy in the concerned
country. However, as it became apparent that this mode of management was not effective, the Government
decided to contract management of the remaining six overseas fellowships to a specialized agency
(AMIDEAST) in the following areas: (a) manpower planning (one staff received one year of training in the
Unit:ed States); (b) computer operating systems (two staff received training in the United States, and one
received three months of training in Lebanon in the field of software and operating systems); and (c)
statistics (two staff from the statistics department received three months of training in Jordan in statistical
planning and preparation of statistical yearbooks). All of the fellows have returned to MCSAR, except for
-29 -



the manpower planning candidate, whose status is unknown. An earlier mission had suggested that
MCSAR attempt to recover the cost of training for the fellow who did not return to MCSAR, as per the
terms of the fellowship agreement, but action is unlikely.
22.    Earlier missions had suggested that, in preparation for the ICR, MCSAR attempt to evaluate the
impact of such training by surveying former trainees who are now working in MCSAR and other
Government agencies. The mission reiterated that it would be important to find how many of these staff
are still with MCSAR, and also to identify the causes of failure in those cases where staff, despite their
training, find it difficult to utilize their new skills.
Analysis of Project Implementation: NIAS
23.    Amounts disbursed by category are indicated in Table 2. Overall, this component disbursed about
US$0.46 million less than its allocation, due mainly due to the canceled furniture and equipment contract
with the Al-Hatmi Company.
Table 2. Disbursements by Category for Part A (NIAS component only)
Cat.  Description                   Allocation in   Disbursed in   Undisbursed in
US$             US$             US$
1-A   Civil works                   1,279,786.71    1,643,632.25     -363,845.54
2-A   Equipment, furniture, and     1,700,848.83    1,367,743.90     333,104.93
vehicles
3-A   Consultant services            897,283.32      196,614.44      700,668.88
4-A   Training and fellowships      1,851,388.07    2,059,502.01     -208,113.94
TOTAL     5,729,306.93    5,267,492.60     461,814.33
Note: Minus sign before undisbursed amount indicates cost overrun.
The table excludes Category 5 (refund), SA advances, and the unallocated category, which are shared by
both components. Further adjustments are being made, and the recovery of the SA is in progress. About 40
percent (US$2.3 million) of the credit allocated to NIAS was disbursed under SOEs through the SA.
Category l-B Civil works
24.    All civil works contracts under this component have been completed, and payments, including the
10 percent retention, have been made. No further payments are due. The work was completed under two
contracts: (a) extension of the existing Sana'a campus; and (b) construction of the new branch at Ibb.
However, it is being claimed by the COCA committee that the contractors did not carry out some of the
work, especially at Ibb. This points to poor supervision and payment certification processes. The mission
requested that the Government investigate such claims and ensure that all work for which payment was
made has been completed.
25.    The Sana'a extension was contracted to Abdulmalik Ali Al-Ansi at US$500,000 million, and this
total was increased to US$562,399 through variation orders but excluding several claims that were
disputed. The disputes over extras by the Sana'a contractor were resolved after a Government committee
recommended that the original contract amount be increased from about US$500,000 to US$670,000 (a 34
percent increase). On that basis, IDA issued a "no-objection" for the increased value of the contract, and
has already processed all pending payments to this contractor. The building has been completed and is now
- 30 -



being used, but without the furniture that was canceled.
26.    The Ibb branch has also been completed, but also lacks furniture due to the cancellation of the
furniture contract. The problem with the extras incurred at the Ibb branch was also resolved through a
Government committee, which determined that many of the variation orders were necessary because of
omissions in the construction drawings and bill of quantities-probably due to the fact that the bidding
process was rushed so that the building could be completed before the closing date. Although the decision
was not unanimous, the comniittee did recommend that IDA increase the value of this contract from about
US$800,000 to US$1,187,000 (a 48 percent increase). In addition, there was a significant increase in the
cost of the foundations due to special soil conditions at the Ibb site. These problems were witnessed by
staff from the Resident Mission during construction.
27.    The May 1998 mission carried out an analysis of final costs based on the gross areas constructed
or rehabilitated, and concluded that even with the increase, the costs remained reasonable and within an
acceptable unit cost range compared to similar works.
Category 2-B Equipmen4tfurniture, vehicles, and books
28.    Various goods were provided through nine contracts. IDA disbursed about US$1.37 million
against these contracts (mostly on 100 percent cif basis). Contracts for furniture (US$339,670) and
equipment (US$155,170) signed with Al-Hatmi Office Trading Company were canceled after COCA
claimed that the contracts were fraudulent and that the supplier was not the original bidder. This was a
major setback for the Sana'a extension and the new Ibb branch, as this furniture and equipment were
critical for their operation. In the mission's discussions with MOPD, the mission suggested that future
funding for essential goods could, if the Ministry requests, possibly be provided under one of the
non-project Japanese grants. The mission recommends that NIAS pursue this option. The lists should be
carefully reviewed to ensure that only essential, functional, and reasonably priced items are included.
29.    Purchase of books for the NIAS library. The delegation that attended the February 1998 book
fair in Cairo placed orders with the Al-Ahram Distribution Agency totaling US$54,917. The reference
books ordered for the library were received by NIAS; however, payment has yet to be made. A sum of
US$30,000, withdrawn from the SA by the former PIU Director, withdrawn under the pretense of making
payment against this contract, is missing. The mission advised the PIU that the balance of US$24,917
coulcl be paid by IDA, after the missing US$30,000 has been paid to Al-Ahram by the Government In any
eveni, this and other missing IDA funds should be fully accounted for.
Categ,ory 3-B Consultant services
30.    The project financed a number of consultant contracts relating to some of the project's training
activities. The project also financed the salaries of PIU staff for the period of January -December 1998.
IDA disbursed US$197,000 against this category. There are no further payments pending, although, as
mentioned below, there were certain payments made that the beneficiaries claim they did not receive.
31.    The Long Term Training Plan of Civil Service in Yemen (US$186,000). This was the only study
comnmissioned by NIAS (the contractor was ISS), and its recommendations can be considered a blueprint
for the development of NIAS. However, there were some payment irregularities that need to be straightened
out According to the PIU, this contract comprised two parts: foreign and local components, with ISS (a
Netherlands firm) to be paid US$121,000, and local staff who contributed to the study paid US$65,000.
Payments for the entire US$186,000 have been made; however, only US$97,151 went to ISS, while
- 31 -



US$97,151 went to local contributors. Thus, ISS was shortchanged US$32,151, while the local
contributors were paid US$32,151 in excess. It is not clear whether this arrangement was mutually agreed
upon by NIAS and ISS.
Category 4-B Training
32.    IDA financed 39 fellowships for NIAS faculty, all managed by AMIDEAST: six in the United
States, 11 in Egypt, and 22 in Jordan. All fellows have completed their studies and have returned to
Yemen. All programs were managed by AMIDEAST. IDA disbursed US$2.06 million under this category.
Minor adjustments and reconciliation of the accounts with AMIDEAST are pending, as there were some
savings.
Achievement of Development Objectives
33.    Partly due to the civil war, but partly due to significant weaknesses in both MCSAR and NIAS, it
was not possible to meet the development objectives [of broad institutional strengthening] as originally
envisaged. Moreover, even after significant restructunng and simplification of the project in 1995,
achievement of the revised objectives (paras. 34 - 40) was still modest, and many questions need to be
answered before this project can claim even marginal success.
MCSAR
34.    Staff development programs. The impact of these programs is virtually impossible to assess, as
many of the staff trained no longer work at MCSAR.
35.    A new computerized system to manage personnel records The system was outmoded in terms of
capacity and design as soon as it was installed. The Ministry claims that, even with its limitations, this
system has been used extensively and was instrumental in conducting the civil service census, a key
preparatory activity for the proposed Civil Service Reform Project, to be supported by IDA.
36.    A new buildWingfor the Minisry. Although the project provided for construction of a new building
to house a computer facility, the computers were installed in existing buildings and the funds used to
construct a new building for the Ministry. The Ministry claims this new building has increased its
effectiveness, and has been particularly useful in launching various activities relating to the Government's
Civil Service Reform Plan The building includes good conferencing and training facilities, as well as
modem records and filing rooms.
37.    Four studies on key topics. The studies were conceived very early in the project cycle but all
were completed late and all had limited impact (see para. 20). MCSAR should seek assistance to implement
key recommendations of the records management study, especially for those that fit within the framework
of the Civil Service Modernization Project.
NIAS
38.    Staff development programs. Efforts to improve the NIAS faculty through staff development
programs generally had a poor outcome, due to: (a) lack of a strategic framework; (b) the random selection
of specializations; (c) poor selection criteria for the candidates; and (d) the inclusion of persons not
employed by NIAS.
- 32 -



39.    Sanaa campus extension and establishment of a new branch at Ibb. The Sana'a campus was
extended and a new branch at Ibb was established. Both facilities are now completed, but are not filly
operational because of the lack of furniture and equipment They are excellent facilities and should be
made functional as soon as possible.
40.    Long Term Training Plan of Civil Service in Yeten. The study came in very late (at the end of
1997, instead of in 1990); however, it does contain important recommendations that could be pursued. The
studly could be viewed as a blueprint for NIAS's future development
Summary of Pending Actfons
41.    The following actions need to be initiated by MCSAR, NIAS, and IDA:
MCOPD:
(a)   All missing funds-expenditures that were either not fully documented, ineligible, or diverted
should be returned to IDA. The investigation is ongoing, but a rough estimate of this figure is about
US$120,000.
NIAS:
(b)   Incomplete works at Sanaa and Ibb. Allegations that some payments were made against work
that has not been satisfactonily completed should be investigated.
(c)   Furniture and equipmentfor Sana'a and Ibb. The possibility of securing Japanese grant funds
to procure essential furniture and equipment for the Sana'a extension and the new branch at Ibb should be
explored.
MCSAR and NIAS (together):
(4)    The reconciliation and fuU recovery of the SA. The two agencies should continue to work
closely together to reconcile their respective expenditures drawn from the SA - and make reports to IDA.
IDA Actions:
(e)    Pending payments. Direct payments for the remainig eligible expenditures should be made to
suppliers, contractors, and consultants, since the SA is depleted and virtually recovered.
(I)   Independent invesdgadon by Alied Accountants. Completion of the investigation should be
expedited, and the Government informed of the findings.
IDA Implementation Completion Mission
Sana'a, Republic of Yemen
Febrjary 1999
- 33 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Priority Areas                Indicators                           Results
A. MCSAR
1. Civil works for the MIS     Computer center           Completed satisfactorily, although facilities were
occupied by the Ministry and not the computer center.
The center was installed instead at the existing
Ministry building.
2. Furniture & equipment       Supplies for computer center  The computer equipment was provided and is well
utilized. Other goods were supplied to meet the needs
of the Ministry, which occupied the building. Three
vehicles were procured for the Ministry.
3. Technical assistance
(a) Long-term fellowships               465 mm           Time allocated was converted to medium and
short-term training.
(b) Short-term fellowships              338 mm           140 officials received training (2-4 weeks) in Jordan
and Egypt during the period 1994-96. In addition, 75
officials were trained in Sana'a by qualified Yemenis
with the assistance of one JIPA staff.
Six officials were trained under an AMIDEAST
contract: 3 in the.US; 2 in Jordan; and I in Lebanon.
(c) Studies                              22 mm           Four studies were completed: (i) Manpower Planning;
(ii) Wages & Salaries; (iii) Records Management; and
(iv) Jobs Classification.
(d) Consultancy services                262 mm           The four studies were completed by consultants and
the Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA).
B. NlAS
1. Civil Works
(a) Addition to Sana'a campus  Construction & renovation  Completed satisfactorily and on time, but to this date
work                      remains unfumished.
(b) New facility at Ibb        New construction          Completed. The new building was not handed over to
the NIAS administration by the contractor, as he was
not fully compensated for his work.
2. FurnIture & equipment       For new & existing facilities  Some furniture was acquired for the Sana'a campus.
The Ibb campus was not fumished. Some computers,
typewriters, and books for the Sana'a library were
provided. Eleven vehicles were purchased.
3. Technical assistance
(a) Fellowships                         962 mm           39 long-term fellowships completed; 6 fellows did not
return to NIAS; many others poorly supervised and
studies not relevant to NIAS work.
(b) Experts (teacher support)           690 mm           Three expatriates were hired as instructors for periods
varying between 12-18 months.
(c) Consultancy services                 76 mm           A study on Training Needs in the Civil Service was
finalized by the Institute of Social Sciences (the
Hague).
(d) Study tours                                          24 senior staff and two senior MOPD officials
received study tours to Jordan, Egypt, and Syria (10
persons); 8 to England, France, and Morocco; 7 visited
Germany, Holland, Belgium, and Egypt; and the NIAS
Dean reportedly visited Tunisia and Egypt.
-34 -



Table 2: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Project Objectives                                       Results
A. AISSISTANCE TO MCSAR                             _
1. Manpower Development Planning. The assessment and  A study on Manpower Planning was prepared, but it is not
programming of training needs for the public sector,  applicable to the Yemeni context.
development of a manpower and training plan, and
development of staff capabilities in manpower statistics.
2. Personnel Polky and Administration. The assessment,  A new computerized system to manage personnel records was
development, and implementation of personnel policies, and  provided. Four studies on key topics were completed:
development of staff capabilities in job classification and  (i) Records Management; (ii) Human Resources Development;
grading, staff evaluation and development, and employee  (iii) Wages and Salary Structures; and (iv) Job Classification.
statistics.                                  _
3. Government Organization and Operations. The      The four completed studies (listed above) are relevant to the
assessment and strengthening of administrative procedures  planned objectives. There was improvement in the Ministry's
throumgh the development of staff capabilities in performance  performance due to the substantial training of staff (overseas
evaluation, work classification, public systems analysis, public and local) in areas previously iacking expertise.
sector management and economics, accounting, financial
management, and work organization and methods.
4. AIranagement Information Capacity. The establishment  The Management Information System was implemented, but
and operation of a computer processing unit for operation of  fell short of servicing the entire civil service.
an Integrated Civil Service Management Information System. _
B. ASSISTANCE TONIS                                  __
1. Development of Staff Capabiites. The development of  Training by JIPA and consultants benefited many NIAS staff.
staff capabilities for planning and conducting training in such  However, few are in their original posts to practice their new
areas as information technology, public finance, office  skills. A number of fellowships also helped improve staff
management, public administration, organization of  capabilities, although there was a great number of
pre-service programs, project accounting, procurement, and  non-relevant disciplines included in the program. Most
secretarial practice.                               fellows have returned and are now working with NIAS.
2. Research and Consultancy Servkes. The development of Some consultant services were utilized in preparing training
staff capabilities in research methodology and consultancy  programs for NIAS staff However, the research services were
methods.                                            not fully utilized.
3. L,ng-term Plan. Development of a long-term plan for  The study was commissioned to the ISS by NIAS, and it has
NIAS's education and training activities, as well as for the  been completed satisfactorily. The study can be viewed as a
development of NIAS's intemal organization for      blueprint for NIAS's future development
implementation of those activities, including the identification
of long-range objectives, methods, and training programs.
4. Teacher Support. Provision of teacher support in courses  Twenty-two NIAS faculty trained in the Master's Degree
for sdills development and management, including office  program in Jordan. 19 have completed it and retumed to their
management, accounting, economics, public administration,  posts. Eleven candidates studied in Egypt (7 graduated).
and i rformation technology.
5. Erpansion of AU4S. Sana'a headquarters, and      Sana'a HQ completed satisfactorily, but the Ibb facilities were
construction of Ibb branch facilities.              not handed over by the contractor until a dispute over payment
was finally resolved. The facilities at both campuses have not
been furnished. The fumiture contract was found to be
fraudulent and was cancelled. There was not sufficient time to
call for fresh tenders. This is the main reason for the
cancellation of about US$772,000.
- 35 -



Table 3: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as Defined
Study            at Appraisal/Redeflned          Status                Impact of Study
MCSAR                                                                                            =
1.        Records       Database of Civil Service  Completed June 1997    Limited. The Ministry has not
Management              Employees                                         taken the study seriously, but it
could have useful applications.
2. Salaries and Wages   Database Management      Completed August 1997     Limited. Not feasible in the
Structure                                                                 Yemeni context.
3. Jobs Classification  Civil Service Management  Completed                Limited. Too theoretical.
September 1997
4. Human Resource       Civil Service Management & Completed July 1997    Limited. Not relevant to the
Management &            Development                                       Yemeni context.
Development
AUS                                                _
I .      Long-term      Institutional Development for Completed June 1999  Potentially significant if NIAS
Tramining Plan Study    NIAS                                              implements the plan. Could be
used as a blueprint for NIAS's
future development strategy and
_______________________  operations.
-36 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million     uivalent
1. M:CSAR                                                         4.80                4.20               87.5
2. NiAS                                                            8.60               5.80              67.44
Totail Baseline Cost                                              13.40              10.00
Physical Contingencies                                           0.50               0.00
Pri:e Contingencies                                               1.50              0.00
Total Project Costs                     15.40              10.00
Total Financing Required                       15.40              10.00
Note: The foreign costs include indirect foreign exchange components. Local costs, as in the case of civil works, include
payments in US dollars. Civil works contracts signed after 1995 (for NIAS facilities) were denominated in US dollars and
financed at 90 percent by the IDA credit. The 10 percent balances were paid by the Government in Yemeni rials converted at
the time of payment at the rate set by the Central Bank of Yemen (CBY). The older MCSAR contracts were more complex and
were based on the following formula. IDA financed 90 percent of the contract, with 40 percent of the payments converted to US
dollar; at the rate of YR 12.02 to the dollar; and 50 percent of the payments were paid in Yemeni rials and charged to the credit
at the CBY rate at the time of payment. The remaining 10 percent was paid by the Government in Yemeni rials. These
arrangements increased IDA financing requirements. The Government share was correspondingly decreased.
Pro ect Financin    b  Com    onent In US$ million e uivalent)
MCSAR                        3.52        1.0        0.00       4.03        0.17       0.0     ;114.5     1 1.3   0.
NIAS                         7.28        3.10       0.00       5.57        0.23        0.00     76.5     7.4     0.0
Total                        10.80       4.60       0.00       9.60        0.40       0.00      88.9     8.7     0.0
Note: The differences between appraisal estimates ard actual costs are due to changes in project financing. Initially, the
Government was expected to finance 49 percent of civil works and 80 percent of local training. During project implementation,
it became apparent that the Government would be unable to raise the necessary counterpart funding; therefore, IDA agreed to
increase its financing of civil works from 51 to 90 percent. Training took place in Yemen, but it was conducted by the Jordan
Institute of Public Administration (JIPA), and was,,therefore, 100 percent financed by the IDA credit.
- 37 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count         Specialty                    Progress    Objective
Idenitification/Preparation
12/87                     3    ED, MS, PA
03/88                      4   ED, PA, M, 0
06/88                      5   A, ED, PA, M, O
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/89                      3   A, EC, DC
06/89                      2   0, TM, EC
Supervision
10/89                      1   A, TM
06/90                      2   PA, TM                          U             S
08/92                      4   PA, TM, IS, O                   U             S
05/93                      3   TM, PA, EC                       S            S
07/92                      3   TM, A, PA                        S            S
01/94                      3   TM, E, PA                        S            S
10/94                      3   TM, E, IS                       S            S
12/94                      2   ED, O                           S            S
03/95                      4   TM, ED, O, IS                    S            S
06/95                      2   TM, ED                           S            S
10/95                      3   TM (IS, A)                      S             S
03/96                      3   TM (IS, A)                       S            S
07/96                      1   TM (IS, A)                       S            S
10/96                      1   TM (IS, A)                      S             S
05/97                      1   TM (IS, A)                       S            S
11/97                      1   TM (IS, A)                       S            S
01/98                      1   TM (IS, A)                       S            S
05/98                      1   TM (IS, A)                       S            S
12/98                 Update   TM (IS, A)                      U            U
ICR
07/98                      3   TM (IS, A), O, PA                U            U
02/99                      1   TM                               U            U
Travel was not possible during June 1990 and August 1992 due to the Gulf War and security problems.
- 39 -



Keys to overall verformance radunes:
Prior to FY94: 1: problem fiee; 2: moderate; 3: major problems.
FY94 onwards: HS: Highly satisfactory; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; HU: Highly unsatisfactory.
Abbreviations: A: Architect; EC: Economist; ED: Education Specialist; MA: Management Specialist;
PA: Public Administration Specialist; 0: Operations Officer; IS: Implementation Specialist; TM: Task
Manager; DC: Division Chief
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  AL    testEstimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              72.7                      151.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                   61.5                      157.2
Supervision                            134.2                     309.0
ICR                                     11.2                       75.0
Total                                  279.6                      693.0
-40 -



Annex 5. Raftngs for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest. N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
ED macro policies                    OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Sector Policies                    OH OSUOM ON O NA
O FPhysical                          * H OSUOM O N O NA
O Financial                          OH OSUOM       ON * NA
El Institutional Development         O H O SUO M O N 0 NA
El nvironmental                      OH OSUOMM ON * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction           O H OSUOM O N        * NA
O Gender                       O H OSUOM O N        * NA
El Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Frivate sector development         O H O SU O M O N 0 NA
El fublic sector management          O H OSUOM      O N O NA
OI Other (Please speci)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
-41 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS *U OHU
F Supervision                                      OHSOS        *U    OHU
? Overall                                          OHS   Os     *u    OHU
Although, there was some improvement in the Bank supervson towards the last two years, it was too late
to correct systemic problems in the management anrangements and governance of the two key beneficiary
institutions (MCSAR and NIAS). Moreover, IDA missions failed to recognize the associated risks of these
weaknesses and rated the project's objectives "satisfactory" until the very end.
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
J Preparation                                      OHS*S        OU    OHU
 Government implementation performance            O HS OS      O U   O HU
 Implementation agency performance                O HS O5      G U   O HU
s Overall                                          OHS OS *U OHU
Rating of "Satisfactory" for Preparation is marginal. Although, project design was sound at the time of
appraisal, major modifications were necessary later during implementation, due to unforeseen events, but
also due to over ambitious design.
-42 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Full report of Special Committee. A Summary was insexted in Section 9 (Partner comments).
2. Report of the Accountants (Allied Accounts of Jordan).
3. IC(R Aide-memoire.
-43 -















IMAGING
Report No.:        24237
Type:     ICR



