Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-iZ 22-c 
Report No. 7626-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YSHEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
APRIL 17, 1989
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Yemeni Rial (YR1) 9.7i
YR1 1.00 = US$.102
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bpd  -    barrels per day
CPO  -    Central Planning Organization
CASB -    Country Assistance Strategy Brief
ICB  -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB  -    Local Competitive Bidding
LTC  -    Long-term Consultancy/Consultant
MCSAR-    Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
MIS  -    Management Information System
MS   -    man-month
MOE  -    Ministry of Education
MPW  -    Mir.istry of Public Works
NIPA -    National Institute of Public Administration
PPAR -    Project Performance Audit Report
PPF  -    Project Preparation Facility
PTTI -    Primary Teacher Training Institute
STC  -    Short-term Consultancy/Consultant
TA   -    Technical Assistance
TCF  -    Thrillion Cubic Feet
UNDP -    United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTiTIUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMIISTRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . ........................ * ....          iv
Cost Financing and Disbursement Summary                  .               vi
Introduction ............ .................................. 0.............   vii
I. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND.. ..                                        1
A. Economic Background          ...                 .      ..... .        1
B. The Public Administration Sector           . . ...........             2
Sector Setting ...         ....... ..                                 2
Growth and Characteristics of the Public Administration
Sector in the 1.9Os.                  .       ........ . ...        3
Profile of the Civil Service..                                .       3
Development of the Civil Service Institutions .............           4
Issues and Recommendations Regarding the Public
Administration .......        ....... ........                .     4
Educational and Legal Aspects of the Public
Administration Development ............        ...........          5
Sujmmary ......... o ...........   .......                            6
II. THE MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM (MCSAR)
AND THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (NIPA) ..            6
A. MCSAR........   6
Objectives.                .......        ...........                 6
Issues in Institutional Development of MCSAR          7. .
Manpower Development Planning         7...                    
Personnel Policy and Administration.. . .                          7
Management Information Capacity                 . . . .            8
Government Organization and Operations             . . .           8
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Yemen Arab
Republic in June 1988. The mission members were Messrs. Y. Saran (Education
Specialist and Mission Leader); M. Salman (Operations Officer); H. Go (Senior
Architect); H. Laurant (consultant); and V. Trafford (consultant). Mr. H.
Sharshar (consultant) participated in the identification mission. After the
yellow cover review, M. Salman (Task Manager) reviewed the report and
finalized it. Mme. G. Ghattas assisted in the preparation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
B. NIPA ........... s............. ......................... .......... ................  8
Objectives ..    ..     .......................   ................ .  8
Structure, Staff and Facilities        .......      ..........      8
Programs ..........  es..0...........                               9
Issues in Institutional Development of NIPA                        10
Staff Shortages ...............                                 10
Institutional Inadequacies..*.............                      10
Shortages of Equipment and Facilities .                         11
C. Government Strategy .....  .*.. ............ .... ... . ...    11
D. IDA Strategy for Institution Building *see*................    11
III.  THE PROJECT    .        .........................            .....    12
A. Introduction ............ ..                     .........         12
Project Objectives             ........                 . . ....   12
Project Scope     .     .........    ...........                12
Manpower Development Planning                                73
Personnel Policy and Administration                          13
Management Information Capacity                              14
Government Organization and Operations                      15
Staff Development.........         ........ A...            14
Research and Consultancy  14
Long-Term Plan of Activities...                             15
Structure and Decision-Making Process        .......         16
Shortage of Equipment and Facilities                        16
Other Project Elements             .................               16
Other Elements of TA Design          ................ .17
Training Design Study. .. .. ..... .... ....                    17
Fellowship Awards and Review .......          ;                 18
Deployment and Retention ..       .. ..........18
Counterparts .....       ......... s ..... . . ....             18
Absorptive Capacity   .   .....           ... ..... s           18
B. Project Outcomes.u.t.c ..... ................... ... .0. .. ..    19
IV.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT & IMPLEMENTATION ...19
A. Cost of the Project   . ..*..*..19
Summary of Project Costs. .... ...          .. .       .19
Basis of Cost Estimates                             . .            22
Foreign Exchange Components                ...                     22
B. Project Financing            .         ... .22
Capital Investment Costs        ...........         .... ......    22
Recurrent Costs     .       ............ . ..... . .....23
C. Project Implementation      .     ........       .......    ...    24
Implementation Period .......... . .................               24
Management. ....................                .........          24



- iii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
Status  of  Preparation  ............ . 0. .     ................. .  24
Project Preparation Facility Advance ..                     24
Technical Assistance ..... ............ ......   ..*.....   24
Sites   .................          .................        25
Architectural Design and Construction Supervision ...      25
Equipment, Furniture and Vehicle Needs   .    .            25
Procurement .       ...    . .. .  ... .... ...... .          25
Disbursement  - ............      ................    . . .   26
Special Accounts . ......   . ...... ...         .......      27
Accounts & Audits ............                  ........       27
V.  BF?EFITS, RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTIVITIES o   .................    27
. ~~~~~Benefits, ...                                     .................................  27
!             ~~~~~Risks ..........................................          28
Project Monitoring .......... ..........................      29
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ..                 30
Conditions for Disbursement .......  ooo   ..............     32
ANNEXES
1 - Profile of the Civil Service
2 - Issues in Public Sector Development
3 - Educational and Legal Aspects of Public Administration Development
4 - Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform
5 - Objectives, Components and Monitoring Schedule
6 - National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA)
Table I - Staff by Divisions and Location
Table 2 - Total Staffing Position and Post-Graduate Shortages
Table 3 - Training and Educational Activities
7 - NIPA: Academic Decision-Making Bodies
8 - MCSAR's Summary of the Technical Assistance Proposals
9 - NIPA's Summary of the Technical Assistance Proposals
10 - MCSAR's Implementation Schedule
11 - NIPA's Implementation Schedule
12 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
13 - Experience with Past IDA Lending in the Education and Training Sector
14 - Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP:  IBRD 21365



- iv -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINEISRATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:             Government of the Yemen Arab Republic
Beneficiaries:        Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR)
National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA)
Credit Amount:        SDR 8.2 million (US$10.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA with 40 years' maturity
Project Oblectives
& Description:      The proposed Project constitutes the first major
involvement of IDA in institutional development for
public administration in YAR.  Its overall objective
would be to assist the Government's institution-building
efforts through helping: MCSAR to enhance its
operations, efficiency and performance; and NIPA to
improve its capacity to design and deliver training
programs in public administration.  To achieve these
objectives, the proposed Project would provide MCSAR and
NIPA with technical assistance, training and logistical
support to: (i) strengthen MCSAR's ability to offer
advice in governmental organization and operations;
personnel policy and administration; and manpower and
training planning; (ii) establish a management
information system in MCSAR to respond to the manpower
planning and personnel needs of the Governiment; (iii)
assist MCSAR to assess the consistency of its structure
and operation with its functions and mandates; (iv)
improve the quality, efficiency and coverage of NIPA's
education, training, and consultancy services; and (v)
review and redesign of NIPA's internal decision-making
structures and course planning procedures.
Benefits and Risks:  The proposed Project would initiate a modest but
significant contribution to YAR's inst£tutional
development for public administration by improving the
operational efficiency of both MCSAR and NIPA in carrying
out their respective mandates through upgrading their
human and institutional resources and in availing
adequate facilities and equipment to permit the effective
deployment of these resources. In doing so, it would
assist the principal government agencies in improving



their structures and operating abilities so that,
eventually, they would attain the full capabilities
expected of them. The main risks associated with the
proposed Project relate to the slow implementation of TA
in various IDA-financed projects in YAR and to V4CSAR's
limited absorptive capacity And its involvement for the
first time in an IDA-supported project. These risks
would be minimized by taking into account HCSAR's
absorptive capacity in the design of the TA package and
by ensuring award of TA contracts before project
effectiveness; by appointing counterpart staff and
establishing criteria for the selection of candidates for
fellowship training; by ensuring that a training design
consultancy is started before negotiations; and by the
appointment and training through PPF of key
implementation staff before effectiveness. moreover, a
monitoring mechanism has been developed to address
implementation problems.



- vi -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTiTUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADM STRATION PROJECT
Cost Finaneing and Disbursement Summary
Estimated Project Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
(US$ million) -
MCSAR
Strengthening in Priority Areas                   0.6         2.1         2.7
Management Information System                     0.7         1.4         2.1
NIPA
Program Planning Support                          0.1         0.3         0.4
Teacher Support                                   0.5         1.9         2.4
Quality Improvement of Prcgratus                  2.1         3.7         5.8
Base Cost                                     3.9         9.4        13.4
Physical Contingencies                              0.2         0.3         0.5
Price Contingencies                                 1.0         0.4         1.5
TOTAL                                         i_-        10. _l
Financing Plan:
IDA                                                 0.6        10.2        10.8
Government                                          4.6         0.0         4.6
TOTAL                                             5^k        125
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY
89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96
-(US Millions)--  -
Annual                          0.4   1.5   2.0   2.8   2.2   1.1   0.5   0.3
Cumulative                      0.4   1.9   3.9   6.7   8.9  10.0  10.5  10.8
Economic Rate of Return;              Not applicable.
Note: Figures do not add up due to roundings.



- vii -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
IrSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Introduction
Background
1.       Following the 1962 revolution, the new government undertook the task
of creating and building-up pdblic institutions. Taking into account the
virtLual absence of institutional capability in the early seventies, the
progress made in the development of government institutions is commendable
(paras. 1.08-1.12). However, there remain underlying weaknesses and
constraints in public institutions which limit the country's capability to
manage the increasingly complex issues in economic and social development
(para. 1.13). Development of an efficient civil service is a high priority
during the Third Five-Year Plan and has been addressed by the creation of the
Supreme Committee for Civil Service and Administrative Reform to formulate
policy; the development of the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative
Reform (MCSAR) to implepent policy; and the designation of the National
Institute for Public Administration (NIPA) to provide in-service training.
Unfortunately, skills shortages, lack of adequate facilities, and
institutional deficiencies within MCSAR and NIPA have retarded the process of
developing a more adequate civil service in YAR.
ARMArua
2.       The design of the proposed Project recognizes that public
administration development in YAR is a formidable task which could run through
many phases of development. Systematic planning and evaluation would be
required for each phase. The project design, therefore, emphasizes priority
areas for initial development, including institutional skills building in
manpower and training planning, personnel policy and administrAtion,
management information capacity, and government organization and operations.
The proposed Project supports institutional development in these priority
areas in MCSAR and seeks to improve the institutional and the in-service
training capability of NIPA. These two institutions are crucial to public
administration development in YAR and will play a strategic role in the future
development of the Public Administration.
3.       The main focus of the proposed Project is on the development of a
critical mass in MCSAR and NI?A with requisite skills not only to achieve the
project objectives in priority areas, but also to initiate and plan actions
for future development. To achieve this, the p;oposed Project invests in the
development of human capital by means of specialists' support, and training
for lscal staff, systems and procedures. This proposed Project would
systematically support the public administration development effort of YAR in
its first phase and is designed as an institutional development project with
payoffs expected to accrue over a long period of time.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
DISTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADM STRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ECONOMIC AND SEC.OR BACKGROUND
A. Eeonomic Background
1.01     Following several years of rapid growth and balance of payments
surpluses, the economy slowed down in the early 1980s, and the macrofinancial
position deteriorated sharply, due to exogenous factors (lower inflow of
workers' remittances and aid, and drought) and to endogenous ones (fast
increase in public expenditures and overvaluation of the rial). In 1983, the
Government launched a stabilization program to correct both fiscal and
external imbalances, mainly by cutting public investment, freezing wages,
devaluing the rial several times (by 24% in real effective terms) and
restricting imports. Over 1983-86, the budget deficit was considerably
reduced, which, however, did not prevent inflation from accelerating, due to
the reduced demand for money. Higher inflation was the lagged result of years
of fiscal laxity. The same period also witnessed a coneiderable reduction in
the current account deficit.
1.02     However, after nearly four years of increasing improvements, 1987 and
1988 witnessed a marked deterioration in the macrofinancial position, due to
the relaxation of the stabilization effort, which, in turn, was related to the
start of oil exports in late 1987, and to the political difficulty of imposing
austerity for the sixth straight year. In particular, imports were allowed to
increase rapidly in 1987 (but not in 1988), wages were defrozen and investment
was increased. The deterioration was also due to the unexpected drop in
workers' remittances to less than 302 of their level in the early 1980s, and
to lower oil prices than projected.
1.03     The current account deficit was a record high US$700 million in 1988,
of which, about 332 was financed by suppliers' credit (mainly on short term),
and nearly 402 by drawing on reserves of foreign exchange, which fell to less
than one month of imports. Recent short-term borrowing was partly due to the
sharp decline in official loans and grants (from US$0.7 billion in the early
1980s to US$0.3 billion in 1987), and explains the rapid increase in the total
debt service ratio to 30X in 1988. Following its sharp increase in 1987 due
to the increase in capital expenditures and wages, the budget deficit was
reduced in 1988, thanks to oil revenue. The smaller deficit was instrumental
in reducing the growth of the money supply (from 102 in 1987 to 62 in 1988),
inflation, and the gap between inflation and interest rates.



-2-
1.04     Following three ye-rs during which economic growth barely kept pace
with population increases, the economy grew by about 8X a year in 1986-88, due
to oil and aormal rainfall after a long drought. Meanwhile, unemployment is
increasing, due to the return of migrants from Gulf countries, but is not yet
considered serious by the Government. Remarkably, the social costs of the
stabilization program were kept at a reasonable level. The most visible cause
of hardship during the stabilization program was higher inflation.
Fortunately, the quasi-absence of subsidies and price controls meant that
there was no food subsidy to cut and no food price to raise. The Government
took corrective measures to reduce the hardship of the poorest, notably by
expandir.g its cash and in-kind income redistribution program. Also, the
absence of wage rigidities prevented a larger increase in unemployment,
despite the return of migrants. The wage freeze in the central administration
was a particularly s:vere one, but was not met with serious opposition, mainly
because of the small number of Government employees. Furthermore, family ties
and a well established tradition of self reliance helped to limit the costs of
stabilization.
1.05     Gas and oil were discovered in 1984.  Estimated reserves of gas
exceed five trillion cubic feet (TCF), with about 2.5 TCF in associated gas,
and are large enough to justify substitution for oil products. Oil reserves
are confirmed at 650 million barrels, but are likely to be as high as one
billion barrels. This difference has an important bearing on the country's
future growth and creditworthi3iess. 0;l extraction at the rate of 10,000
barrels per day (bpd) started in April 1986 to feed a small refinery at
Marib. Following the completion Gc the pipeline, oi) exports started in late
1987 at the rate of about 130,000 bpd, which was increased to 190,000 bpd in
early 1989. Even at its peak in 1996 (US$1. billion in 1983 constant prices),
oil revenue would not compensate for the drop in private and public transfers
from abroad over 1983-88 (US$1.1 billion in 1983 constant prices).
1.06     Despite impressive achievements, much remains to be done in the
development of YAR's human resources. Health indicators depict serious
problems, and adult literacy and school enrollment ratios remain low. In
addition, pervasive shortages of skilled and semiskilled manpower continue to
retard the development process and sharply limit the ability of the public
administration to manage and implement an increasingly complex development
program.
B. The Public Administration Sector
Seetor Setting
1.0'     Prior to the 1962 revolution which established the republic, public
administration in Yemen was largely limited to the collection of taxes and the
maintenance of law and order. Efforts to modernize the antiquated and
inefficient public administration inherited by the republican government and
to establish effective government inLtitutions could not begin until the



conclusior. of the civil war in 1970, and were severely constrained by a lack
of material resources, an existing corp of public servants most of whom had
less than primary schooling, and a shortage of skilled workers in all sectors.
1.07     To address these deficiencies, the World Bank group and other
multilateral and bilateral dono-s have provided substantial amounts of
technical assistance. Since the early 1970s, IDA's assistance strategy has
been to help the Government achieve sustainable growth, provide for the
long-term development of skilled manpower, and develop and sustain an
appropriate institutional structure and capacity for public administration.
IDA assistance has benefitted the Central Planning Organization, created in
1972 as the main development planning institution in YAR, the Civil Service
Bureau, and other public sector entities including the Ministries of
Agriculture, Economy, Education, and Health. About 701 of IDA assiatance has
been for institutional development, with about 30% of total project funding
allocated to technical assistance. In addition, large numbers of Yemenis have
been sent abroad for training under fellowship programs.
Growth and Characterstiics of the Public Adinistration Sector in the 1980s
1.08     Given the virtual absence of institutional capability in the early
1970s, the progress made in the development of government institutions ha's
been commendable.  However, it should be remembered that precise details about
the skills profile nature of the public service in YAR are not always
available or highly accurate. One of the major problems in canpower planning
faced by YAR, as by many countries at a similar level of development, is the
absence of a single agency capable of collecting and maintaining employment
data, properly disaggregated, on a comparable annual basis. Accordingly, the
establishment of a Management Information System (MIS) is a high priority.
1.09     Total public and mixed sector permanent employment has been reported
by CPO to have grown from 25,000 in 1980 to approximately 63,000 in 1988. Of
these, approximately 41,000 were employed by the civil service with the
remaind_r in the public and mixed sectors. In addition, about 7,000 workers
are employed on a daily or seasonal contractual basis. According to CPO,
approximately 30,000 expatriates are presently working in the public sector,
consisting of a small number of experts engaged in technical assistance work,
a large number of teachers and nurses, and some migrant workers at government
construction sites. It is expected to be some time before sufficient numbers
of Yemenis have been trained to replace foreign experts.
Profile of the Civi Service (Annex 1)
1.10     Studies of the manpower requirements of the public sector indicate
that more than half of all public sector jobs are in skilled manual or office
occupations, with relatively few requiring a university degree or involving
semi- or unskilled workers. With the increase in government investment under
the Second and Third Five-Year Plans this description of job characteristics
may have changed somewhat, but while data to assess the exact changes are not
a-vilable they are likely to be small. Based on information supplied by CPO
th, educational attainment of the civil service has improved dramatically over



- 4 -
the last decade, but much remains to be done to improve the match of skills to
requirements in the public sectnr.
1.11     Over the last decade, the Government has made numerous attempts to
standardize salary and wage scales across the civil service but has lacked the
institdtional strength and qualified civil service to enforce its codes. A
new civil service code established in 1988 has an additional senior management
level, offering greater opportunity for differentiation among senior staff,
and has, inter alia, disassociated grade levels from titles, allowing skilled
staff to earn as much as managerial staff who are their superiors.  The code
has also increased the base pay and allowances for the various grades, with
the increase being progressively larger as one moves down the grade ladder.
Develovment of the Civil Service Institutions
1.12     As a result of a study by the Kuwait Fund completed in 1980, a
Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MCSAR) was established in
1981 with a mandate for the the management and reform of the civil service.
The National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA), the Government's
training institute, became affiliated with MCSAR but retained its financial
and administrative autonomy. In additien, a Supreme Committee for the Civil
Service and Administrative Reform was created as the highest policy-making
authority in the area of administrative development, under the chairmanship of
the Prime Minister. The establishment of these two new bodies, in partnership
with NIPA, was believed by the Government to have created an institutional
framework conducive to public administration development. It became evident
over time, however, that these institutions were established without a clear
strategy; nor were they able quickly to accumulate the technical and
professional skills and capabilities needed tv enable them tu address their
respective mandates. Such an institutional infrastructure is a prerequirite
to the future development of an efficient Yemeni civil service and public
administration.
Issues and Recommendations RegardiM the Public Administration (Annex 2)
1.13     Any attempt to define the major issues in the development of a modern
public sector in YAR will inevitably be an oversimplification. The YAR,
though struggling to est.ablish a modern and efficient administrative system,
remains an essentially tribal society where there is a tendency to behave
according to cultural norms and to disregard formal organizational machinery.
In addition, centralization of authority and the habit of referring even minor
matters to the highest levels still pervade the public sector.
1.14     Nevertheless, the appraisal mission identified five main shortcomings
that characterize the public administration in YAR:
(a) Lack of functional job classifications. Present job classifications
do not address the match between the skills of a civil servant and
the duties that are expected of him. Without a more detailed
knowledge of the functions of civil servants determining the best
recruitment and compensation policies and the need for foreign
experts is extremely difficult.



(b) Shortage of qualified civil servants. As in the rest of the economy,
the public sector is plagued by a lack of skilled manpower,
compounded by an inefficient allocation of existing skilled workers.
These problems have manifested themselves in a large number of
vacancies for skilled workers and in the presence of a large number
of expatriate workers.
(c) Inefficient utilization of foreign experts. To ensure the most
efficient allocation of expatriate staff, the drafting of the most
precise possible terms of reference and the establishment of a
monitoring system to ensure that foreign experts deliver according to
their TORs, including training of counterpart staff, would be highly
advantageous.
(d)  Cumbersome administrative structure and procedures.  A pr  iminary
study of the organizational chart of the public sector su,ests that
many ministries may suffer from a relatively large number of
administrative units at the top of the hierarchy and a shortage of
skilled support staff at the bottom. The system is also burdened by
an apparent unwillingness among managers to delegate authority to
subordinates, even when staff are sufficiently skilled to accept such
assignments. This retards the development of managerial capacity in
junior staff and div'.rts the attention of senior managers from other
duties.
(e) Ambiguous relations between central and local authorities. Because
the central government in YAR has been grafted onto a structure of
local organization that predates it by centuries, relationships
between local and central authorities are unclear. However, there
are examples of successful coordination between local and central
governments, and rather than fall into greater centralization these
successes should be built on.
Educational and Legal Aspects of Public Administration Development (Annex 3)
1.15     The development of the public sector in YAR will be shaped by the
quality of domestic manpower supply, and accordingly by the quality and
efficiency of the domestic education and training system, as well as by the
legal framework within which the civil service operates. While the mission
did not undertake an extensive survey of these matters, it is therefore clear
that some attention must be directed to them. Over the last 18 years
substantial progress has occurred in the educational system in YAR, with large
increases in the number of schools and graduates. In addition, various public
institutions have established in-service training programs. However, much
remains to be done to expand access to education, and a proper balance needs
to be established between skills needs, the existing manpower supply, and
training programs. In addition, administrative law remains confused by the
inclusion c,f social equity goals (such as the employment of all university
graduates) that may be incompatible wi.h efficiency considerations.



-6-
Summase
1.16     An analysis of the public administration system confirms the fact
that much remains to be done to develop a modern and efficient civil service.
It is clear that not all of the problems identified can be addressed
simultaneously, nor are all susceptible to immediate correction. Accordingly,
it would be wise for IDA to concentrate its efforts oa the inz-titutional
development of MCSAR and its affiliate, NIPA, concentrating on improving their
respective abilities to carry out their mandates and thereby laying the
foundation for the future development of the civil service in YAR.
H. MCSAR and NIPA
A. MCSAR
Objectives
2.01     YAR's continuing struggle to establish a modern and efficient
administrative system has passed through many phases in which the
responsibility for development was assigned and reassigned to several
agencies, committees and departments. All of these organizations reported to
the Offices of either the President or the Prime Minister, or to the
Presidential Council. This ad hoc stage came to an end with the creation in
1981 of MCSAR, the first public administration institution with full cabinet
status to deal with civil service affairs.
2.02     MCSAR has two main functions.  First, it has direct operational
responsibility for devising personnel policy and for managing all government
agencies' personnel departments. In this respect, it is also charged to
prepare and update a comprehensive manpower and training plan for the
Government and to manage the resultant training programs (including foreign
fellowships). MCSAR's second function is to guide and advise the other
government ministries on structures and procedures to improve their
efficiency. In addition, MCSAR also provides the secretariat for the Supreme
Committee for Civil Services and Administrative Reform.
2.03     MCSAR is organized into three operational sectors, Personnel,
Manpower, and Organization and Administration (Annex 4), each of which has two
to four general directors. In addition, MCSAR has 11 regional offices
operating in each province of the country and appoints the directors and
deputy directors of the personnel departments of each ministry.
2.04     In keeping with its expanding role, MCSAR has grown from 42 full-time
employees in 1981 to 451 in 1988, of whom 383 were permanent (Annex 4,
Table 1). Although 119 full-time staff members were university-trained, much
of that training has had little functional relevance to the tasks actually
carried out by the staff. Moreover, most of the graduates are relatively



-7-
recent appointees, so that their lack of training is compounded by a lack of
experience.
2.05     Since its creation MCSAR has reorganized itself once to accommodate
to changing conditions. MCSAR's recent experience has raised questions about
whether or not an additional reorganization might be valuable. The
significance of these questions is particularly relevant because they occur in
an institution designed to guide and counsel the rest of t'ae Government on
precisely these matters. This has led MCSAR to the conclusion that it may
find it worthwhile at some point in .he future to attempt a reorganization,
and it has recently initiated a preliminary study in this direction. However,
MCSAR recognizes that it cannot provide from its own resources a full study of
the optimal instituttional framework for operational effectiveness. Obviously,
such a study would be a prerequisite to avy future reorganization that might
be attempted.
Issues in Institutional Development of MCSAR
2.06     MCSAR's strategy for its future development recognizes that available
resources do not permit the simultaneous tackling of all problems in all areas
of its mandate. It has therefore decided, in agreement with IDA, to
concentrate its efforts on improvements in four interrelated priority work
areas in which MCSAR presently considers itself to be particularly constrained
by skills shortages and structural deficiencies: Manpower Development
Planning, Personnel Policy and Administration, Management Information
Capacity, and Government Organization and Operations.
2.07     Manpower Development Plannina.  A priority objective of MCSAR's
Five-Year Plan, which follows the lines of the national Third Five-Year Plan
(1987-91), is the preparation of a governmentwide manpower development plan
whose demand side would be based on detailed job classifications.
Subsequently, MCSAR would project the type and level of qualification required
for each position and would specify the respective training needed. This
exercise would be used as a base for projecting supply needs from the existing
education and training system in YAR as well as from regional and
international institutions. Once completed the plan would be updated
annually. MCSAR's present resources are recognized to be inadequate to
address this massive task, and technical assistance would therefore be
necessary to assist MCSAR in preparing this study and in developing MCSAR
staff to take over these functions in due time.
2.08     Personnel Policy and Administration.  Despite the issuance of a new
personnel law in May 1988, many issues of policy and application remain to be
resolved, including recruitment policies and the determination of entry-level
requirements; the relationship between salaries, incentives and performance
reviews; and the obligations of civil servants trained at government expense.
MCSAR staff are still not equipped to deal with these complex matters because
of insufficient training and experience. The provision of skills to address
these issues is urgently needed, but will not compensate for the lack of an
overall personnel policy and of a coherent system to carry it out. Thus, as a
first step, an in-depth study of the present situation would be required to



- 8 -
formulate a realistic overall policy and achieve consistency in the personnel
system. At present MCSAR does not have either the trained personnel to
conduct such a study or access to advice on the best way to do so.
2.09     Management Information Capacity.  In view of the absence of a single
agency capable of collecting and maintaining data in the above fields, the
Government has authorized MCSAR to establish and operate its own computer
processing unit. This will require MCSAR to hire qualified staff, to provide
training to existing staff, and to obtain consultant assistance over a two- to
three-year period to establish and operate the new system. In addition,
assistance will be needed from CPO's relatively efficient computer center.
CPO has agreed to supply such assistance, but resources in addition to those
it can supply will be required.
2.10     Government Organization and Operations.  The remairing priority areas
as determined by the Government concern MCSAR's advisory role to other
government entities in the fields of government organization and structure,
and government operations and management, two areas which impact directly on
the effectiveness and efficiency of all of MCSAR's operations. In both
fields, MC3AR would require thorough training for its personnel before they
could adequately pro;ide the required planning and advisory services for other
parts of the Government. In addition, if such training were to be provided,
consultant services would be requirea during training and briefly thereafter
to allow at least some outside advisory work to go fcrward.
B. NIPA
Obiectives
2.11     NIPA, YAR's main public administration training agency, was
established in 1974. In 1981 its mandate was expanded to comprise "the
development of all aspects of national administration and the promotion of all
types of training for officials in public and mixed ownership enterprises"
(Annex 6). In addition to its training responsibilities, NIPA is required to
conduct higher education programs at the post-secondary and post-university
levels for civil servants and public and mixed sector employees, to engage in
research and consultancy activities, and to publish its findings.
Structure. Staff and Facilities
2.12     Although formally affiliated with MCSAR since 1981, NIPA has
maintained financial and operational autonomy under its Board of Trustees, of
which the Minister of MCSAR is chairmen. At present, responsibility for all
aspects of day-to-day management has been delegated to the Vice Dean.
However, for NIPA to further advance, for its programs to develop in quality
and for its staff to gain broader experience, greater delegation of authority
and more participatory decision-making are necessary.



- 9 -
2.13     In addition to a Board of Trustees representing various ministries, a
dean and a vice dean, NIPA is organized into four divisions dealing with
administration and finance, training, research and development, and higher
education. NIPA operates from four sites: Sana'a, the headquarters and site
of most activities; Taiz and Hodeidah (both established in 1982 with IDA
assistance under the Third Education Project); and Ibb, where less extensive
activities started from rented accommodations in 1988 and where excess demand
for services persists. Out of a total of 167 staff members at these
facilities, the teaching staff consists of 40 with bachelors degrees, 14 with
masters degrees, and 17 who are studying abroad (Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2).
YAR regulations require teachers of pGzt-secondary and post-graduate diploma
courses to have at least masters degrees, which has forced NIPA to rely on
part-time staff from the University of Sana'a and to hire 14 expatriate staff
under the IDA-financed Sixth Education Project. It has also encouraged NIPA
to concentrate on developing its staff, with assistance for this purpose being
provided by IDA, UNDP and donor countries. IDA assistance has included, inter
alia, 18 fellowships.
2.14     NIPA's training courses run the gamut from seminars for higher-level
officials, to post-graduate degree courses, to secretarial courses. Annual
enrollments have averaged 1,300 since 1980 (Anvex 6, Table 3) although the
wide variety of course types and lengths makes this number difficult to
interpret. The breadth of NIPA's course offerings can be attributed in part
to the lack of any other institution to provide either general or specialized
public administration training for civil servants.  However, this breadth, and
the fact that NIPA courses are offered on several different levels, has
received mixed reactions from NIPA's clients.  Some vould prefer that it
concentrate on training programs only, conducting more short courses
emphasizing specific skills, while others stress the post-secondary diploma
programs for training of middle level managers as being NIPA's most important
activity. Despite the differences of opinion, NIPA's limited capacity
relative to needs has ensured that all of its courses have been oversubscribedi
in the past. This situation is liable to persi-st for some time.
2.15     NIPA's process for establishing course offerings is based on its own
evaluation of training needs, arising mainly from random contacts with
government agencies. NIPA's limited capacity makes it imperative that this ad
hoc form of program development be replaced with more systematic linkages with
client organizations to ensure that its resources are invested in programs
having the highest priorities in public administration development. At
present, NIPA's training programs do not always address the needs of a
particular sector or department. Curricula tend to stress formal descriptive
information rather than applications, primarily due to a lack of qualified
teaching staff. Overcrowded classes, ineffective teaching methods, and a lack
of teaching materials and case studies adapted to Yemeni situations leave
significant room for improvement in program quality. These improvements could
lead to a substantial reduction in NIPA's present high wastage rate and could
therefore reduce real unit costs.



- 10 -
2.16     Research and consultancy services represent an important aspect of
NIPA's mandate, but one in which activities are at present almost negligible
due to a shortage of skilled staff and the lack of a clear policy strategy.
This is particularly unfortunate, as it has occurred at a time when the rapid
growth of the civil service has made research in policy and operational areas
an urgent requirement. It is unlikely that NIPA staff would be in a position
to offer advice on some of the more complex public administration problems
facing the Government without a training program in skills and methods of
research and consultancy.
Issues in Institutional Development of NIPA
2.17     The Government recognizes that the development of effective public
administration education and training is the foundation of its long-term
strategy to improve the civil service. It also recognizes, however, that like
MCSAR, NIPA faces a variety of problems which cannot all be resolved
simultaneously or immediately.  Accordingly, it has decided, with IDA
approval, to concentrate its efforts on improvements in three priority areas
which it believes severely limit NIPA's ability to meet its mandate: shortages
of qualified teaching staff, institutional inadequacies in planning and
decision-making, and shortages of equipment and facilities.
2.18     Staff Shortages.  Given its broad jurisdiction and extensive
activities, NIPA is very short of qualified staff (Annex 6, Table 2).  A
preinvestment study prepared under the Sixth Education Project (Credit
1470-YAR) and discussed with the Government concluded that a "vigorous" policy
of upgrading NIPA staff is essential and t'aat increases in the number of
expatriate workers will probably be necessary to sustain the breadth and
quality of NIPA programs. The shortage of qualified staff also limits the
capacity of NIPA to undertake curriculum reviews, improve teaching methods and
prepare teaching mateiials. NIPA recognizes that unless its technical,
professional and administrative skills are upgraded the long-term impact of
its services will decline and the delivery and quality of its services cannot
be improved. An upgrading of NIPA's staff would require not only fellowship
support but also substitute staff to take over the responsibilities of NIPA
staff being trained or studying abroad.
2.19     Institutional Inadequacies.  NIPA's role as the sole provider of
public administration development and training has ensured that its courses
are always oversubscribed. Moreover, the expansion of the civil service and
the promulgation of a new civil service code (Law 1/88) requiring entry-level
civil servants with university degrees to attend a NIPA pre-service program
and making attendance at a NIPA course a prerequisite to promotion, ensure
that training requirements will vastly exceed NIPA's capacity. At present,
NIPA's training programs lack systematic development and institutional
planning procedures have been simple and minimal. NIPA recognizes that it is
essential to improve its structure and procedures for designing and evaluating
programs, making choices and decisions according to the priorities of its
clients, and developing its personnel and procedures, if it is to meet the
increasing demands being placed on it.  These changes would help to ensure a
more relevant profile for programs and services, and provide for more rigorous
quality control.



- LI -
2.20     Shortages of Equipment and Facilities.  Overcrowded classrooms,
limited library facilities, and outdated computer syqtem and teaching
equipment confirm the need for a general upgrading of NIPA's Sana'a
facilities. While the Hodeidah and Taiz branches have adequate resources, the
Ibb branch is neither large enough nor sufficiently well-equipped to
accommodate the demands being placed on it.  Improvements in these facilities
would consolidate NIPA's activities, not expanding existing facilities to
spread more thinly NIPA's already limited human resources but instead
improving the human/non-human factor proportions in NIPA programs at Sana'a
and Ibb, allowing for the more efficient use of the human resources NIPA
currently has available.
C. Government Strategy
2.21     The Government is aware that public administration development
requires a long-term commitment and emphasis on instruments and organizational
mechanisms to promote, guide and evaluate this process. The Government's
strategy for public administration development, as expressed in the various
five-year plans, consists of four basic elements: (i) creating national fora,
such as the Supreme Committee for Civil Service Administration, and
ministerial task forces to formulate national policies for promoting and
evaluating administrative information; (ii) improving managerial skills
through upgrading NIPA programs and providing overseas training where local
facilities do not exist; (iii) improving the managerial environment through
the review of existing policies on civil service compensation, accelerated
administrative decentralization and local government administrative
development, evaluation systems, management information, and organizational
development programs; and (iv) systematically replacing expatriate personnel
with qualified Yemeni nationals. The Government's public administration
development strategy is therefore not a blueprint but rather a learning
process that has already generated consensus and commitment  for change among
decision-makers. Such strategy would be adaptable as experience and events
warranted. The maintenance and execution of such a comprehensive strategy
requires a partner with the resources and broad technical capabilities of IDA.
D. IDA Strate  l for ILstitution Buildin
2.22     A long series of IDA reports have highlighted the underlying
institutional weaknesses and manpower constraints which limit YAR's capacity
for economic and social development, and the ability of the public sector to
assist such development.  As noted above, since the early 1970s IDA's
assistance strategy has focussed on helping the Government achieve sustainabla
growth with an emphasis on the training of skilled manpower and on creating
and maintaining an appropriate institutional capacity in the public sector
(para. 1.07). The draft 1988 Country Strategy Paper confirms the need for
such continued emphasis.



\                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~- 12 -
2.23     As of June 1988 IDA has financed 50 credits to YAR for a total of
about US$500 million net of cancellations. Out of a total of eight projects
in the education and training sector (see Annex 12), two have supported public
administration training by providing support to NIPA. The Third Education
Project supports construction, equipment and technical assistance to two
regional centers of NIPA, and the Sixth Education Project provides technical
assistance to NIPA generally. The proposed Project would break new ground by
financing institutional development of MCSAR and NIPA and is expected to lead
to further IDA financing in subsequent phases of public administration
development in YAR. Furthermore, with the good start provided by this
Project, subsequent ones should be able to provide a framework within which
complementary contributions from other donors/lenders could be integrated.
XII THE PROJECT
A. Iatroduction
3.01     During December 1986 IDA agreed to the Government's request for
assistance in the development of the public sector. The proposed Project was
prepared by the Government following an IDA project identification mission in
December 1987 and a subsequent preparation mission in March 1988. The Project
was appraised in June/July 1988.
Projeet Objectives
3.02     The overall objective of the Project is to assist the Government's
institution-building efforts by helpirg MCSAR to develop the organizational
and human resources needed to address its mandate and NIPA to improve its
capacity to identify, design and deliver those training programs of high
quality which will contribute most directly to the growth of a qualified,
professional civil service. More specifically, the Project aims to help MCSAR
and NIPA in the seven priority areas identified by those two institutions
(Annex 5), in consultation with IDA, as most important in their development.
The Project is thus intended to provide both long-term benefits for YAR and to
respond to a specific immediate need.
3.03     Project Scope.  The project items are summarized below.  (Further
details are given in Annex 5.)
Priority Area                                Component
A.  MCSAR                                 - Consultancy Services            262 MM
Manpower Development                  - Studies                         22 MM
Planning, Personnel Policy            - Long-term fellowships          465 MM
and Administration, Management      - Short-term fellowships         338 MM
Information Capacity, Government      - Civil works for MIS
Organization and Operations         - Equipment ani furniture



- 1J -
B.  NIPA
Staff Development, Research           - Consultancy Services            76 MM
and Consultancy, Long-term            - Experts (teacher support)      i90 MM
Plan of activities, structure,        - Fellowships                    962 MM
decision making, cquipment            - Civil works-addition to Sana'a
and facilities                          and a new facility at Ibb
- Equipment and furniture
3.04     With respect to MCSAR, the Project is designed to yield improvements
in the four areas identified by that institution as its most imprtant
coneerns:
(a)  Manpower Development Planning.  The proposed Project would assist in
the development of a manpower and training plan (para. 2.07) through
the three-year attachment of a consultant to the Ministry's Manpower
Planning Sector, complemented by the assignment of specialized
short-term consultants (12 MM) as needed (Annex 7). It would also
provide MCSAR staff with three diploma-level fellowships (45 MM) and
support short- and medium-term local and international training (64
MM) in such areas as human resources planning, manpower statistics
and the assessment and programming of training needs for government
service (Annex 7). The above activities would be closely coordinated
with an ongoing USAID technical assistance project with training
workshops on basic manpower planning and related computer skills and
a comprehensive public sector lator force profile. The medium-term
output would be the comprehensive manpower and training plan itself,
to be completed by 1992; an annual review of operational training
programs; and the enhanced capacity of MCSAR staff to update and
administer the training programs.
(b) Personnel Policy and Administration. The Project would support a
detailed study (9 MM) of the present personnel system (para. 2.08),
taking into account the most recent legislative changes and would
make specific recommendations for appropriate modifications in policy
and administration. The study is being supported by a PPF advance.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the study would
start by June 1989, and its findings will be reviewed by the
Government and IDA by December 31, 1989 and on the basis of Study's
recommendations and the Government's exchange of views with the
Association, the Government will prepare an action plan satisfactory
to IDA (condition of disbursement). Further support in this areia
would include the attachment of a long-term consultant (36 MM) to
MCSAR's Government Personnel Sector, supplemented by short-term
consultants (6 MM) as needed for various specialized tasks. Staff
training (102 MM) would be provided through fellowships (two masters
degrees, two diplomas) as well as through short-term training (66 MM)
in such subjects as job classification and grading, staff evaluation
and development, and employee statistics (Annex 7).



- 14 -
(c) Management Information Capacity. The Project places a major emphasis
on the development of an efficient management information system,
with support for a new computer facility including civil works,
hardware and related software (para. 2.09). To assist MCSAR in
establishing the system and in developing the staff skills needed to
operate it, the Project would provide MCSAR with three consultants
(78 MM), long-term fellowships (72 MM), and short-term training (60
MM) (Annex 7). Until a special unit for MIS management is created
these consultants would temporarily be attached to the Minister's
office. Two of the consultants would be specialists in programming
and analysis, while the third would advise on the design and
operation of a data processing system and act as the senior member of
the MIS consultant team.
(d) Government Organization and Operations. The Project would give
strong emphasis to raising MCSAR's skill levels in the fields of
administrat"ve procedures, performance evaluation, work
classification and other relevant areas (para. 2.10). To this end, a
consultant would be attached to the Minister's Office for three and
one-half years. In addition to his advisory duties, he would be the
senior member/team leader of the MCSAR consultant team under this
Project and his major responsibilities, like those of other
consultants, would include training of counterpart staff. Short-term
consultants (8 MM) would also be assigned to specialized areas as
needed. Staff training (123 MM) would be provided through
international fellowships (3 masters degrees and 1 diploma) in
various areas of public sector management and public sector
economics, supplemented by short-term training (66 MM) in such
subjects as accounting and financial management, performance
evaluation, and work organization and methods (Annex 7). The
combined output of these actions would develop MCSAR's capacity to
advise up to six government departments/ministries on issues of
operations and administration during the life of the Project.
In addition, and in consequence, the P-roject wou. ! improve MCSAR's
ability to review the organization and function of other government
agencies and to propose improvements (para. 2.10). Further to this
end, a consultant would be attached to MCSAR's Organization and
Administration Department for three years. Services of short-term
consultants (6 MM) would also be provided as needed. In addition,
staff training (123 MM) would be provided in the form of four
fellowships (three masters degrees and one diploma) in public systems
analysis, as well as short-term training (64 MM) in related subjects
(Annex 7). The short- to medium-term output of these actions would
be to put in place qualified staff capable of carrying out the
mandate of MCSAR with respect to eight government agencies during the
life of the Project.
3.05     With respect to NIPA, the Project addresses the five priority areas
identified by NIPA as the major constraints to improving its existing
programs, addressing all aspects of its mandate, and responding to future
needs as they arise:



- Is -
(a) Staff Development. To alleviate NIPA's staff shortage (para. 2.18),
the Project would provide a mix of long- and short-term fellowships
to support staff development. Three fellowships (126 MM) would be
provided to allow staff to undertake study at the post-graduate level
in areas appropriate to their major teaching duties. The Project
would also provide 16 fellowships for staff to undertake study at the
masters level in appropriate subject areas (Annex 8) including fields
such as information technology and public finance. Because 60 MM of
PPF support for ongoing fellowships are for staff who are completing
masters degrees, the actual number of newly awarded fellowships may
be less than 16.
In addition, the Project would provide 12 fellowships (108 MM) which
would enable staff engaged in training programs to uipgrade their
subject knowledge and skills in areas such as office management,
public administration, and secretarial practice while improving their
teaching competence (Annex 8). To improve the quality of short
courses (para. 2.18), the Project would provide an additional
fellowship in the organization, design, conduct and review of
pre-service/programs (2 MM) aad five fellowships (one in each
department) in short course design (10 MM).  Those staff who are
nominated to work in the Project Implementation Unit to be set up
within NIPA would be given short-term practical  .raining in project
accounting, procurement and similar areas (6 MM).
(b) Research and Consultancy. To address staff weaknesses in the area of
research and consultancy services (para. 2.16), the Project would
provide two fellowships (84 MM) for staff to undertake post-graduate
study in research methodology and action research (Annex 8). It
would also provide one fellowship in research methods (6 MM), one in
consultancy methods (6 MM) and six (6 MM) for attendance at short
courses, conferences, seminars and workshops, and for visits to
research and/or consultancy agencies and institutes. In addition,
the Project would provide one specialist in research methodology (6
MM) and one in consultancy methods (6 MM) who working as a team would
develop a work program for improving NIPA's research and consultancy
capability, provide advice on its implementation, conduct in-house
seminars and workshops, and undertake counterpart training in
research methodology and consultancy methods. The Project would also
provide four specialists (24 MM) to collaborate with NIPA staff on
research and consultancy projects in areas to be identified in the
work program and also would finance the principal operating costs
(US$100,000) associated with these four projects. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will provide IDA
with the detailed work program for its review by September 1990 and
that subsequently the results of these work programs will upon their
completion be sent to IDA for comment.
(c)  Long-term Plan of Activities.  To help NIPA fix priorities for its
education and training programs (para. 2.19), the proposed Project
would strengthen long-term planning capabilities within NIPA to



- Lb -
deliver relevant programs. The Project would assist NIPA, in
conjunction with MCSAR and other government agenciesi in preparing a
long-term plan for its education and training activities and in
catablishing priorities for action.  Preparation of such a plan would
ensure that NIPA reconciles changing patterns of demand for its
servicas with appropriate curricula, and gives appropriate weight to
competing claims.  More importantly, central to such a plan would be
the identification of the appropriate long-range objectives and
methods for NIPA, and of the content and general nature of training
programs NIPA should offer to achieve such objectives in the relevant
horizon. To establish this plan, and to facilitate its
implementation, the Project would include 10 MM of specialist
services in institutional planning and management and 4 MM of
fellowship training in institutional liaison. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the plan will be sent to IDA by
July 31, 1990 for comment and that NIPA, MCSAR, CPO and IDA will
discuss the plan and agree on a timetable for its implementation.
(d)  Structure and Decision-making Process.  In addition, the Project
would assist NIPA to establish and operate structures and procedures
(para. 2.19) to improve its administrative and academic
decision-making, and the quality of its programs. These goals will
be achieved, inter alia, through establishing a clear linkage between
NIPA's revised mandate, its long-term planning, and a revised
administrative and academic decision-making structure. The Project
would assist to these ends by pro-viding 30 MM of specialist services
and 28 MM of fellowships in curriculum development, staff development
planning, and pedagogy and education technology. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that by July 31, 1990, NIPA should submit
for IDA's review a long-term plan that explicitly proposes an optimal
structure and decision-making process to help NIPA carry out its
mandate. Such plan should be prepared in full collaboration with
NIPA's Board of Trustees as well as with MCSAR and CPO. As a result
of a joint review of the plan, specific recommendations and a
timetable for their implementation will be agreed.
(e)  Shortage of Equipment and Facilities.  The Project would expand the
existing physical facilities at Sana'a headquarters, reducing the
current shortage of space and equipment (para. 2.20). It would also
construct a new branch building to replace rented and inadequate
facilities at Ibb, thereby providing a m.re suitable campus from
which to serve the education and training requirements of that region.
Otber Proiect Elements
3.06     The Project would assist MCSAR to assess the adequacies of its
organization and methods by providing specialist support (3 MM) to determine
what organizational structure and what operational procedures can best serve
MCSAR's functions (para. 2.05). The study would provide specific
recommendations for any potential future restructuring, and assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the study would start by June 1989, and that



the Government and IDA will review these recommendations by Decemoer 31, 1989
and that the Government will carry out the recommendations taking IDA's
comments into account. When project activities are well advanced, the new
structure will be evaluated (see para. 3.08).
3.07     In addition to specific training for middle-level and operational
staff in their areas of specialization, the Project would also develop senior
MCSAR officials, through a PPF, for their responsibilitids. Selected senior
officials would be sent on brief study tours (Annex 7) to familiarize
themselves with recent developments in priority areas, to enable them to
prepare detailed action programs before September 1, 1989. Moreover,
officials nominated to the project implementation team would receive
short-term training in project accounting, procurement and other relevant
aspects of project implementation (Annex 7).
3.08     In order to assist the Government in the long-term development of its
public administration, the proposed Project would provide 6 MM of specialist
support by 1993 for an evaluation of the programs included under the proposed
Project, and of the adequacy of the MCSAR and NIPA structure to provide them.
The evaluation would, in particular, review progress, recommend a strategy for
development of the civil service in YAR, and consider the need for further
analyses and support. It would also assess t4e education and training system
to highlight actions needed to make it more responsive to Yemeni manpower
requirements.
3.09     To enable NIPA to continue to offer its broad range of programs while
staff are away on training, and to provide outside stimulus to its academic
activities (para. 2.18), the Project will provide 48 MM of teaching support in
office management at each of the Hodeidah, Sana'a and Taiz branches, and 12
months at Ibb when it becomes operational, for a total of 156 MM. An
additional 36 MM of teacher support for short-term training programs will be
provided as needs are identified. In addition, support to post-secondary
programs at all four regional sites and to post-graduate programs at Sana'a
will be provided by specialists in accountancy (168 MM), economics (96 MM),
and public administration (168 MM) with further specialist support (18 MM) in
areas to be identified later (Annex 8). This would enable NIPA to restore its
short courses, seminars and workshops to their 1984 levels, and would improve
their design and delivery through the provision of short-term specialist
contributions (48 MN).
Other Elements of TA Design
3.10     Training Design Study.  To enable training to commence in the
academic year 1989-90, the programming of activities and the selection and
placement of trainees will have to be completed prior to September 1, 1989.
A PPF advance is therefore required to support a consultancy to assist MCSAR
in the preparation of a detailed 1989-90 training proigram. Its principal
output will be a program which will define selection criteria, present a
phased training program for short- as well as long-term training actions,
identify trair4ng institutions to be used, and identify candidates for each
1989-90 training fellowship.  The consultancy will also assist in the



- 18 -
preparation of provisional multi-year training programs for the four
subsequent years. This study that has already started (a condition for
negotiations) and would, upon its completion, be jointly reviewed by IDA, CP0
and MCSAR.
3.11     Fellowship Awards and Review.  MCSAR and NIPA would establish
definite criteria for the selection of fellows, including prior academic
qualifications, appropriate language proficiency and minimum years of relevant
experience. Trainees and fellows would be subject to annual review of their
progress, with sanctions, including termination, for unsatisfactory
performance. Assurances confirming the criteria for award and annual review
of trainees were obtained during negotiations.
3.12     Deployment and Retention.  MCSAR and NIPA would designate, prior to
each trainee's departure for training, the work area with these organizations
where he will be deployed following his return. To ensure chat the sponsoring
institution will benefit from the training, MCSAR and NIPA will obligate each
trainee to give a binding undertaking that he will remain in the designated
work area for some minimum number of years following the completion of
training according to aupli-able laws.  Government assurances about these
arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
3.13     Counterparts.  In order to ensure the maximum productivity from
long-term consultants, MCSAR and NIPA will assign to each of them an
appropriate number of counterparts to work full-time with the consultant. At
an absolute minimum, each consultant will have at least one such counterpart
to work with during the period of this assignment within the framework of
explicit terms of reference. Assurances confirming the allocation of the
appropriate number of counterparts were obtained during negotiations.
3.14     Absorptive Capacity.  As of March 1988, MCSAR had 101 middle- and
senior-level personnel working in Sana'a. Accepting MCSAR's 1988-92 personnel
projections (Annex 4, Table 1), there will be an average of 196 such personnel
per year providing a tctal of 11,760 MM of work over that period. This number
will be depleted by a total of 408 MM for 16 fellowship trainees and 156 MM
for full-time counterparts for four long-term consultants. The average
depletion would then be 4.8% on a MM basis, which is well below the 10-15Z
range where the risk of undue depletion is generally considered to begin.
3.15     In the case of NIPA the risk of depletion is even less severe, due to
its easy access to part-time staff from the University of Sana'a (para. 2.13)
and the increasing number of qualified civil servants who could be used to
staff training courses. Because most of NIPA's courses are conducted in the
evening, it will be possible for civil servants Crafted for this purpose to
remain at their normal jobs while teaching. Moreover, the teacher support
element of the Project would assist in the continuation of activities while
staff are on fellowships. Finally, NIPA's intention to stagger fellowships
would further reduce the risk of disrupting its activities.



- 19 -
B. Proiect Outcomes
3.16     The proposed Project will lay the foundations for planned development
of the public administration iu YAR through creation, at MCSAR, of manpower
development planning capacity, and the actual formulation, by mid-1992, of a
first manpower development plan (para.3.04(a)); development, by mid-1993, of a
long-term strategy for public administration development in YAR (para. 3.08);
and expansion of the Ministry's higher level staff, almost all of whom will be
degree holders, from 100 to nearly 300, at least 60 of whom will have received
carefully designed specific training under the Project (Annex 7); and
improvements to the Ministry's structure. Enroute to these more general
accomplishments, the Project will also have established, by 1993, an MIS to
assist in personnel administration and planning (para. 3.04(c); completed by
September 1989, a study of personnel policy and administration leading to
action programs and realistic policies consistent with the long-term plans
(para. 3.04(b)); developed a well-focussed staff training program with
appropriate equipment and facilities, which would increase the operational
efficiency of MCSAR in the areas of government operations and management, and
government organization and structures; and restructured six principal
government agencies giving them sustained capacity to execute their future
work. The proposed Project would further contribute to the growth of a
qualified, professional civil service through development, by mid-1992, of a
long-term strategic plan for NIPA's activities (para.3.05(c)); establishment,
by September 1989, of procedures which will allow for more effective course
planning and review (para. 3.05(d)); expansion of NIPA's teaching staff from
55 to 80, at least 40 of whom will have received carefully planned training,
to improve their abilities to design and teach courses (Annex 8); development,
by June 1991, of a work program in research and consultancy in policy and
operational areas in public administration (para. 3.05(b)) and improvement of
NIPA's facilities, equipment and capacity to develop teaching material which
would not only enhance the quality of NIPA's programs but also reduce wastage
rates (para. 3.05(e)).
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCiNG. MAWAGEMENT ANID IPLEMENTATION
A. Cost of the Project
Summary of Project Costs
4.01     The total cost of the proposed Project is estimated to be YRl 150.4
million or US$15.4 million equivalent. The estimated total cost and foreign
exchange components of the Project are summarized as follows:



- 20 -
Table 4.01: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
X of
Total
--(YR1 million)-    - (US$ million)-             Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
MCSAR
Support in
priority areas    5.7    20.2    25.9    0.6         2.1     2.7      78        20
MIS                  6.6    14.1    20.7    0.7        1.4      2.1     68        16
Subtotal          12_3    34.3    46.7    1.3        3.5     4.8      74        36
NIPA
Program planning
support            0.8      3.0     3.8    0.1       0.3     0.4      80         3
Teacher support      4.7    18.8    23.5    0.5        1.9      2.4     80        18
Quality Improve-
ment of Progs.   20.7    35.8    56.5    2.1         3.7     5.8      63        43
Subtotal          26.1    57.6    83.7    2.7        5.9     8.6      69        64
Total Baseline
Costs             38.5    91.9   130.4    3.9        9.4    13.4      70       100
Physical Contin-
gencies            2.1      3.0      5.1    0.2      0.3     0.5      59         4
Price Contingen-
cies               9.8      4.9    14.6    1.0       0.5      1.5     33        11
TOTAL               50.4    99.8   150.2    5.2    10.2    15.4         66       115
/a Totals may not add up due to roundings.
4.02     A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by category of expenditure is summarized as follows:



- 21 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY/a
X of
Total
-   (YRI million) -    -  (US$ million) -     Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
INVESTMENT COST
Civil Works
MCSAR                4.4      2.9     7.3    0.5      0.3    0.8        40        6
NIPA                15.0    10.0    25.0    1.5       1.0    2.6        40       19
Subtotal          19.4    12.9    32.3    2.0       1.3    3.3        40       25
Eqpt & Furn & Veh
MCSAR                0.8      7.3     8.1    0.1      0.7    0.8        90        6
NIPA                 1.1      9.9    11.0    0.1      1.0    1.1        90        8
Subtotal           1.9    17.2    19.2    0.2       1.8    2.0        90       15
Technical Asst
Specialist Svcs
MCSAR              3.7    14.6    18.3    0.4       1.5    1.9        80       14
NIPA               1.2     4.7      5.9    0.1      0.5    0.6        80        5
Work Programs      0.2     0.8      1.0    0.0      0.1    0.1        80        1
Subtotal         5.0    20.1    25.1    0.5       2.1    2.6        80       19
Fellowships
PiCSAR             2.4      9.5    11.9    0.2      1.0    1.2        80        9
NIPA               3.3    13.4    16.7    0.3       1.4    1.7        80       13
Subtotal         5.7    22.9    28.6    0.6       2.3    2.9        80       22
Local Training
MCSAR              1.1      -       1.1    0.1      -      0.1         -        I
NIPA               0.7      -       0.7    0.1      -      0.1         _        0
Subtotal         1.8     -        1.8    0.2      -      0.2         -        1
Subtotal TA    12.5    43.0    55.5    1.3        4.4    5.7        77       43
Teacher Support
NIPA Experts       4.7    18.8    23.5    0.5       1.9    2.4        80       18
TOTAL BASE COSTS   38.5    91.9   130.4    3.9        9.4   13.4        70      100
Physical Con-
tingencies       2.1     3.0      5.1    0.2      0.3    0.5        59        4
Price Con-
tingencies       9.8     4.9    14.6    1.0       0.5    1.5        33       11
TOTAL               50.4    99.8   150.2    5.2    10.2   15.4          66      115
/a Totals may not add up due to roundings.



- 22 -
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.03     Estimated construction costs of the Project are based on unit prices
for current contracts, cost analyses of similar facilities at current
IDA-financed education and health projects, and on information on general
construction costs. Furniture and equipment costs are based on current CIF
prices and are adjusted upward to include local installation costs. The
estimates of TA and overseas training costs are based on recent experience in
YAR for comparable technical assistance, and the cost for expatriate
consultants and teachers include salaries, travel. housing, office services,
overhead recruitment costs. The project costs do not include direct taxes and
customs duties, from which the Project is exempt, but do include about YR1 6.3
million (US$0.6 million equivalent) in indirect taxes on locally purchased
items, gasoline and building materials.
4.04     The project costs also include a contingency allowance of 102 of
estimated costs of civil works, furniture, equipment vehicles and materials,
to allow for unforeseen physical additions. It also includes price escalation
contingencies calculated for the period beginning at negotiations (March 1989)
and in accordance with an agreed implementation schedule (Annexes 9 and 10).
Estimated annual price increases are indicated below:
Table 4.3: ESflMATED ANNUAL PRICE INCREASES
Calendar Year Period        1988-1989      1990       1990-1996
Foreign Costs                  5.32         5.3%         4.12
Local Costs                   15.02        10.0%         8.02
Foreign Exchange Components
4.05     The estimated foreign exchange component of the Project is US$10.2
million equivalent, about 662 of total project cost. This estimate is based
on the assumptions that most construction materials will be imported, MPW
architects and engineers will design and supervise the works, and all
equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials will be directly imported. About
402 of civil works spending will be in foreign exchange, while about 902 of
spending on furniture, equipment and vehicles and about 802 of spending on
consultant services, teachers and fellowships will be in foreign exchange.
B. Project Fnncing
Capital Investment Costs
4.06     The proposed credit of US$10.8 million equivalent would finance 70.12
of the total cost of the Project, representing all of the foreign exchange



- 23 -
cost and 11.5% of the local cost. The balance of US$4.6 million in local
costs would be financed by the Government. The proposed financial plan is
summarized below:
Table 4.4: FINANCIN G PLAN
(US$ million)
Government
Category of Expenditures                           IDA   MCSAR   NIPA    Total
INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil works                                       1.9    0.5      1.6     4.0
Equipment, furniture & vehicles                   1.8    0.2      0.3     2.3
Technical assistance
Specialists                                     2.2    0.4      0.1     2.7
Fellowships and local training                  2.5    0.4      0.5     3.4
Teacher Support                                 2.0    0.0      0.5     2.5
UNALLOCATED                                         0.4    0.0      0.1      0.5
TOTAL                                               10.8    1.5     3.1    15.4
Recuiyent Costs
4.07     The additional recurrent costs will be entirely covered by MCSAR and
NIPA and consist principally of salaries for the incremental project
implementation staff, supplies, vehicle operating, maintenance and other
miscellaneous operating and maintenance costs to support new and remodelled
facilities plus computer equipment. During the first year of implementation,
the increments of MCSAR's and NIPA's operating expenses are expected to be YR1
0.4 million and YRI 0.3 million, respectively. This will rise to Yql 1.9
million and YR1 1.8 million after four years and remain at that level until
project completion. After the project closing in 1995 the additional annual
recurrent costs of MCSAR and NIPA will slightly decrease to about YR1 1.6
million and YR1 1.5 million, respectively, as incremental salaries and other
costs related to the project implementation team are no longer expended. In
adlition, a saving of approximately YRI 3.0 million annually will be realized
by NIPA through the replacement of expatriate teachers by Yemenis by 1995.
Incremental expenditures generated by the project after 1995 would represent
about 1.7T and 2.2% in MCSAR's and NIPA's projected total annual
expenditures. This is considered an attainable objective, in view of the
Government's stated policy of giving high priority in improving YAR's public
administration and civil service efficiency. Government assurances were
obtained during negotiations that adequate budgetary allocations to carry out



- 24 _
the activities of the Project during the its life will be made according to
estimates indicated in Table below.
Recurrent Costs by Year
(YR1 Million)
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993    1994    1995
MCSAR        0.7       0.7       1.1      1.1       1.9     1.9     1.9
NIPA         0.6       0.6       1.0      1.8       1.8     1.8     1.8
C. Project Juwlemeatation
Implementation Period
4.08     Construction, furnishing and equipping of MCSAR and NIPA facilities,
as well as the TA component of the Project, are scheduled to be completed by
December 31, 1995 (Annexes 7 and 8). In order to allow sufficient time for
the submission of final withdrawal applications the closing date will be
June 30, 1996.
4.09     The Deputy Minister of MCSAR and the Vice Dean of NIPA will have
responsibility for project implementation unit (PIU) in their institutions,
under the uverall supervision of the Minister of MCSAR. The Minister has
already appointed a project implementation unit to oversee proper
implementation of the MCSAR components, with a full-time project manager. The
PIU has also been appointed for the NIPA components. Technical support to
these units at both MCSAR and NIPA will be provided by a full-time staff
consisting of an accountant, a procurement specialist, a bilingual secretary
and a part-time engineer. Professional services for the design and
construction of the civil works component will be provided by the Ministry of
Public Works.
Status of Preparation
4.10     Project Preparation Facility Advance.  In order to enable the
Government to finance preparatory and start-up activities for efficient
project implementation, a PPF fund amounting to US$400,000 was approved on
July 22, 1988. The funds are being used to cover expenditures related to
studies, consultants, fellowships, study visits of senior MCSAR officials to
public administration institutions abroad, some vehicles and office equipment
for the use of consultants and key staff.
4.11     Technical Assistance.  Terms of reference and implementation
schedules for technical assistance were prepared during appraisal as a
collaborative effort with MCSAR and NIPA and were found satisfactory. The
proposed schedules for consultant assignments, teacher support and fellowship



- 25 -
training are shown in Annexes 9 and 10. However, during negotiations,
agreement was reached on an annual review of the terms of reference and
implementation schedules.
4.12     Sites.  A suitable site for the NIPA branch at Ibb has been
acquired. Suitable land adjacent to the site of the Sana'a NIPA headquarters
building to accommodate a new library building has also been acquired.
4.13     Architectural Design and Construction Supervision.  Tk2 Ministry of
Public Works is responsible for the provision of architectural services under
the proposed Project. Preliminary sketches for MCSAR and NIPA facilities have
been reviewed and revisions have been proposed by IDA. Revised versions of
the drawings are expected to be forwarded to IDA for further review and
comments prior to the start of negotiations. Construction drawings are
scheduled to be completed in time to allow building to commence immediately
after the project effectiveness date, on or about September 1989.
4.14     Equipment, Furniture and Vehicle Needs.  Preliminary equipment lists,
including the computer hardware for MCSAR and NIPA, have been prepared by
their technical teams with assistance from IDA and were approved by IDA.
Final lists and technical specifications will be prepared with the assistance
of the Ministry of Education Project Implementation Unit, which has an
efficient procurement section with extensive experience in enuipment
purchasing and installation, and the CPO Computer Center.
Procurement
4.15     Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 4.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENI
Project Element                       Procurement Method             Total
ICB        LCB         OTHER
Civil Works                          4.3        -             -           4.3
(2.1)       _            _           (2.1)
Equipment, furniture, vehicles       2.1        -             0.4         2.5
& materials                       (1.7)       -            (0.3)        (2.0)
Technical assistance,                           -             6.0         6.0
fellowships & local training       -          -            (4.6)       (4.6)
Teacher support                                 -             2.6         2.6
_  _        (2.1)        (2.1)
TOTAL                                6.3        0.0           8.8         15.4
(3.8)      (0.0)        (7.0)       (10.8)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 26 -
4.16     The total cost of equipment, furniture and vehicles is estimated at
US$2.4 million equivalent, including contingencies. Packages in excess of
US$50,000 would be procured through ICB in accordance with the May 1985 Bank
Guidelines. Readily available off-the-shelf goods of not more than US$50,000
in value could be procured through prudent shopping, based on prices quoted by
at least three foreign or local suppliers. These items would not exceed a
total of US$0.4 million, or 17% of the estimated cost of goods. Civil works
contracts, with an average size of about US$1.2 million and totalling about
US$4.3 million including contingencies, would also be awarded through ICB.
4.17     For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB,
qualifying domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of customs duties on competing imports, or to 15%
of CIF price, whichever is lower. Prior IDA review of procurement
documentation and contract award recommendations would be required for all
equipment awarded through ICB and for all civil works.
4.18     To ensure timely and efficient implementation of technical
assistance, MCSAR and NIPA would obtain specialist services and fellowships
through technical assistance contracts. The consultants would be selected in
accordance with the principles and procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis
of the 1981 "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency". The Government has already submitted
a shortlist of agencies/institutions capable of providing services for the
design and implementation of TA for MCSAR and NIPA. Moreover, Government
assurances were obtained during negotiations that prior to disbursements
(except for fellowships), IDA should approve final action plans for both MCSAR
and NIPA. Following such approval, the Government (i) shall furnish IDA
satisfactory contracts for the technical assistance to be provided to MCSAR;
and (ii) it shall also furnish satisfactory contracts for the technical
assistance to be provided to NIPA.
Disbursement (Aimex 11)
4.19     Disbursements would be on the basis of
(a) 51% of the total costs of civil works;
(b) 1001 of foreign expenditures on directly imported equipment; 100% of
local expenditures ex-factory for locally manufactured furniture and
equipment; 85% of local expenditures for off-the-shelf expenditures;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures on specialist services, 901 of local
expenditures and 100% of expenditures on training and fellowships; and
(d) disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
4.20     As shown in Annex 11, the proposed credit would be disbursed over a
pericd of seven years. This period is one year shorter than the IDA
countrywide disbursement profile for YAR, but is consistent with the recent
implementation experience of PHR projects in YAR.



- 27 -
4.21     All disbursements for civil works contracts and contracts over
US$20,000 equivalent financed by the credit would be fully documented.
Disbursements for contracts less than this amount would be made on the basis
of a statement of expenditure. The documentation of expenditures will be
maintained in the project files of MCSAR and NIPA so that it can be reviewed
during the IDA supervision missions.
Special Account
4.22     In order to facilitate the timely withdrawal of the proceeds of the
credit, the Government will open and maintain a special account for MCSAR and
for NIPA with a commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
IDA's initial deposits would amount to US$600,000, based on anticipated rates
of disbursements. IDA will replenish the account from time to time on the
basis of standard documentation for reimbursable expenditures. During
negotiations, the borrower provided assurances that this account will be
established and operated according to IDA guidelines.
Accounts and Audits
4.23     MCSAR and NIPA will keep separate accounts for project expenditures
in accordance with accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA.
These accounts and the special account will be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA and copies of the audited statements
will be sent to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year. During
negotiations the borrower gave assurances that these audit conditions will be
met.
V. BENEFITS. RISKS AND CRITICAL ACTWIVMES
Benefits
5.01     The proposed Project would provide both short- and longer-term
benefits for the development of an efficient public administration system in
YAR, setting down by completion the basic foundations for planned development
of the public administration in YAR. In the short-term, the Project would
increase the ability of MCSAR to provide services in the four priority areas
it has identified as most important. It would also help to relieve shortages
of staff and facilities identified by NIPA, and would consolidate the
decision-making process within NIPA which will allow the Institute to more
adequately address its mandate. In the longer-term, by increasing the
abilities of MCSAR and NIPA to meet their obligations, the Project lays the
groundwork for the eventual improvement of the structures and abilities of all
of the principal government agencies. The Project is thus designed to produce
first-round benefits for MCSAR and NIPA and second-round benefits, lasting
well beyond the conclusion of the Project, for all areas of the civil service.
5.02     Assistance to MCSAR will lay the foundations for planned development
of the public administration sector through creation of manpower development



- 28 -
planning capacity, and the actual formulation, by mid-1992, of a fi.st
manpower development plan (para. 3.04(a)); development, by mid-1993, of a
long-term strategy for public administration development in YAR (para. 3.08);
expansion of the Ministry's higher level staff, almost all of whom will be
degree holders, from 100 to nearly 300, at least 50 of whom will have received
carefully designed specific training under the Project (Annex 7); and by
analyzing the current structure of MCSAR to determine and install a more
nearly optimal one. The creation of an MIS for ACSAR will develop a capacity
in the Mivistry to meet its responsibility of analyzing the current and future
manpower needs of the Government and planning methods to meet those needs.
During the life of the Project six principal government agencies will benefit
from restructuring intended to produce sustained or enhanced capacity for
future work.
5.03     Assistance to NIPA will improve the prospects for successtul
modernization of the civil service in YAR; through development, by mid-1992,
of a long-term plan for NIPA activities (para. 3.05(c)); establishment of
management and operational procedures which will allow for more effective
identification and selection of necessary courses and better monitoring of
courses and teacher quality; development of a work program in research and
consultancy which will enable NIPA to better meet its important
responsibilities in this area at a time of rapid growth with civil services;
and expansion of NIPA's teaching staff from 55 to 80, at least 40 of whom will
have received carefully planned training, to improve their abilities to design
and teach courses (Annex 8). During the life of the project, improvements to
NIPA facilities will enable the Institute to make better use of its limited
human resources by improving the mix of human/non-human factors in its
programs, and improvements in course quality will lower the presently high
wastage rates.
Risks
5.04     The main risks associated with the Project relate to the slow
implementation of TA in various IDA-financed projects and to the initial
capacity of MCSAR and NIPA to absorb technical assistance in a timely and
correct fashion. These risks have been mitigated through collaborative design
of the technical assistance packages with MCSAR and NIPA staff, including
carefully prepared schedules for fellowships; by assurances on the number of
counterpart staff, by the early identification of and swift awarding of
contracts to the firms or organizations to implement technical assistance; by
the provision of a training design consultancy for MCSAR to be completed
before negotiations, and by agreement on the criteria for fellowship awards
and agreements on appropriate ti.nes for the selection of recipients.
5.05     Although MCSAR has never worked with IDA, no major risk is
anticipated because MCSAR appears to be fully committed to the Project. Both
MCSAR and NIPA have already designated a project manager, a project
coordination team, and other technical support staff to be appointed before
negotiations. In addition, the Project has assisted in the training of key
MCSAR staff through a PPF advance.



_ 29 -
Proeet      torinE
5.06     The following critical activities in the implementation of the
Project and their. expected dates of completion will serve as a basis for
implementation monitoring (see also Annex 5). In addition, a review of
project implementation including CPO, MCSAR, NIPA and IDA would take place at
least once a year. Government assurances confirming such annual review were
obtained during negotiations.
Table 5.1: CRITICAL ACTIVrTES IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Date                        Remarks
MCSAR
Training Design Study    To be completed before      An IDA mission will jointly
5/15/89.                   review the comments by
6/1/89.
To finalize training       As a prerequisite for IDA's
action plan by 7/1/89.     approval of any fellowship.
Personnel Admn. Study    To start before 5/15/89.   Study along with action
plan to be reviewed by IDA
by 12/15/89.
Study of MCSAR's func-   To start before 5/15/89.   Study along with action
tions and organization                               plan to be reviewed by IDA
by 12/15/89.
Long & short-term        To start by 10/89           Annual review.
training                 & complete by 12/94.
Long & short-term        To start by 10/89 &         Annual review.
consultants               to be completed by
12/94.
Manpower Devt. Plan       To be completed by          IDA review.
mid-1992.
Restructuring of          Starting by 12/90          Annual review.
ministries/agencies       1-2 ministry/agency
restructured per year.
Government operations    Starting by 12/90           Annual review.
and management            assistance to two
ministries/agencies
per year.
Long-term strategy        To be completed by          IDA review.
for public admn. dev.    12/93.



- 30 -
Table 5.1 (cont'd)
NIPA
Staff development         To be completed              Annual rev'.ew.
between 1990 & 1994.
Workshop for Senior       To be completed by           Finalize a two-year NIPA
NIPA staff and rele-      06/89.                       work plan, as a pre-
vant govt. agencies                                    requisite for the financ-
ing of any new TA
activities.
Research & consultancy   Ready in mid-1990.            IDA review.
work program.             Work program to be
completed by 1995.
Long and short-term       To start by 10/89.           Annual review.
consultant.
Teacher support           Starting in 1990.            Annual review.
To be completed by
1994.
Revised structure         To be completed by           IDA review.
07/19.
Long-term strategic       To be completed by           IDA review.
plan                      mid-1992.
VL AGREEMD1S REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     Conditions for Negotiations.  To facilitate the efficient
implementation of the Project, the Government undertook the following actions
prior to negotiations:
(a)  submit shortlists for MCSAR and NIPA of agencies/institutions capable
of providing services for the design and implementation of various
technical assistance packages (para 4.18);
(b)  initiate the training design study for MCSAR (para. 3.10); and
(c)  appoint project implementation teams at MCSAR and NIPA (para. 4.09).
6.02     During negotiations, the Government provided (i) a draft action plan
for the implementation of NIPA's TA packages for the period of 1990-1991 and
(ii) assurances that:



- 31 -
(a) MCSAR will prepare in June 1989 an action plan for fellowships and
training based on the findings of the Training Designs Study;
(b)  the Government will maintain a special account for MCSAR and NIPA on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA and that this speLial
account w4.1l be operated according to IDA guidelines (para. 4.22);
(e) all project accounts, including the special account, will be audited
by persons acceptable to IWA and in accordance with appropriate
auditing rules and practices, and that within nine months of the end
of each fiscal year it will provide IDA with certified copies of the
project accounts and an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA
may reasonably request (para. 4.23);
(d) selection criteria for fellowship awards will include prior
qualification, experience in the field of training (at least two
years for NIPA and one year for MCSAR) and language proficiency
(where applicable) (para. 3.11);
(e) trainees will, prior to departure for training, be assigned to
specific jobs for post-training placement and shall, upon completion
of the training, rem.in in these jobs for a stipulated period (para.
3.12);
(f) MCSAR and NIPA will take steps to monitor each trainee's progress on
a current basis and progress reports of trainees will be sent to IDA
annually (para. 3.13);
(g) at least one counterpart will be assigned by MCSAR and NIPA to each
long- and short-term consultant (para. 3.13);
(h) adequate budgetary allocations to carry out the activities of the
Project will be made in annual budgets (para.4.07);
(i)  a review of project implementation including CPO, MCSAR, NIPA and IDA
would take place at least once a year (para. 5.06);
(j) MCSAR's organization study will start by June 15, 1989, and its
findings be reviewed by the Government and IDA by December 31, 1989,
and that the Government will carry out the recommendations of the
study taking IDA's comments into account (para. 3.06);
(k) the personnel administration study will start by June 15, 1989, and
its findings be reviewed by the Government and IDA by December 31,
1989 and on the basis of such review the Government will prepare and
implement an appropriate action plan satisfactory to IDA (para.
3.04(b));
(1)  NIPA's Board of Trustees will, by July 31, 1990 submit for IDA's
review a long-term plsn that explicitly proposes specific programs,



- 32 -
technical assintance required for their implementation and an optimal
structure and decision-making process to help NIPA carry out its
mandate (para. 3.05 (c) and td));
(m) a long-term plan for NIPA's activities will be prepared and sent for
comment to IDA by July 31, 1992, and that NIPA, MCSAR and IDA will
discuss the plan by December 1992 and NIPA will implement a long-term
plan agreed to among NIPA, MCSAR, CPO and IDA (para. 3.05(c)); and
(n) a work program for research and consultancy activities of NIPA will
be sent to IDA by September 1990 for review and that the results of
these work programs will, upon their completion by 1995, be sent to
IDA for comment (para. 3.05(b)).
Conditions for Disbursement
6.03     Prior to disbursement under the credit to finance MCSAR's components
of the Project (except for fellowships), IDA should approve an action plan for
the implementation of TA for MCSAR. The Government shall, soon after IDA's
approval of the plan, furnish satisfactory contracts for the technical
assistance to be provided both to MCSAR and NIPA. Similarly, prior to
disbursements under the credit to finance NIPA's components (except for
fellowships), the Government shall also furnish an action plan satisfactory to
IDA for the technical assistance to be provided to NIPA (para. 4.18).
6.04     Subject to above conditionss, the Project would provide a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$10.8 million equivalent to the Government of
YAR.



- 33 -                           1         
page I of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Profile of the Civil Service
1.       The two agencies of the central government associated with human
resources development (Ministry of Education and Sana'a University), accounted
for 50% of total government employment in 1988; 6,000 Yemenis are presently
engaged in these institutions. In addition, there are approximately 25,000
expatriate teachers working for the Ministry of Education and approximately
700 expatriate professors and other employees at the University of Sana'a.
2.       Thus, total employment in this subsector amounted to approximately
31,000 in 1988, representing an increase of approximately 10.7 over the 1981
level. Given the continued increase in the size of the educational labor
force since 1980, it is possible that more than half of the increase in public
sector employment is accounted for by teachers.
3.       By contrast with the growth of employment in the education subsector,
the annual growth rate of employment in the strictly administrative agencies
(i.e., Ministry of Municipalities, Ministry of Public Works) has been a
relatively moderate 3X.
Occupational Distribution
4.       According to both the 1985 World Bank Report on Manpower Development
in the Yemen Arab Republic and to the 1985 MCSAR Report on Manpower
Development in the Public Sector (1981-1984), about 7.5% of the total
positions in the public administration institutions were in professional
occupations calling for a university degree. A little over one in every three
workers were in the skilled manual occupations, requiring secondary school
completion plus pre-vocational and/or training-related classroom Instruction.
Almost one in five of the positions were skilled office occupations, requiring
secondary school completion plus on-the-job training. One in every six of the
positions were in semi-skilled office occupations, presumably requiring
completion of preparatory-level education, and only one in eight jobs were in
unskilled occupations requiring nc special skills or education.
4.       With the increase in government investment in public sector
development during both the second half of the Second Five-Year Plan and the
Third Five-Year Plan (1987-91), it is likely that the above composition of
required occupational skills has changed somewhat althcugh it is unlikely that
the change has beer. significant. In the absence of comparable figures on the
distribution of occupational skills in 1987, it is not possible to analyze
whatever changes may have occurred. However, in 1988, the Manpower Department
in MCSAR, through a two-year project with USAID, began to create an



Annex 1
- 34 -                           page 2 of 2
occupational skills base line of the civil service that should allow such
analysis in future.
Education/Training Attainment Profile of the Civil Servant
6.       Based on information provided by MCSAR and CPO on the attainment
profile of the civil service for 1988, around 40% of civil servants had below
elementary-level education in 1988; another 28% had completed only primary
education, while only 202 had a university degree. These figures represent a
marked improvement over those of 1975 and 1980. However, despite this
improvement, it is obvious that much remains to be done to fully upgrade the
level of public se^tor employment. As a first step, the proposed project
focuses on technical assistance and training in specific priority areas to
upgrade MCSAR's manpower capabilities.
Evolution of Salary and Wage Scales
7.       During the first decade of the Qepublic, salary scales within
government agencies were not standardized. A first attempt at a standardized
system was Law No. 5 of 1971. A more comprehensive civil service code (Law
No. 49) was promulgated in 1977 which created a unified structure of 13 grades
and defined requirements for entering at a specific grade, promotion,
rotation, etc. However, due to the institutional weaknesses and the lack of
qualified civil servants, it was not possible to apply these regulations with
rigor. The base salary structure and the nature of work allowances were
further increased in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 3 of 1973 and
Law No. 1 of 1988.
8.       The main difference in terms of structure is that the 1988 law
introduced new job classifications under five principal categories: category
1, senior executives; category 2, supervisory jobs; category 3, executive
positions; category 4, vocational and assistant positions; and category 5,
support staff positions. It also introduced a new level between the "director
general" and "deputy minister" grades. This created one more senior
management level, thereby offering a greater opportunity for differentiation
among senior level staff. In addition, the new law confirmed the
disassociation of grade levels from titles at the higher level, thus opening
the opportunity for highly skilled technical staff to earn as much as
managerial staff who are administratively their superiors. This is an
important development because it allows for more flexibility in recruitment
and promotion.
4610V, pp.l-2



Annex 2
- 35 -                           page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Issues in Public Sector Development
1.       Classification of Jobs by Functions.  The appraisal mission
recommends that any analysis of information on public sector employment should
emphasize both classifications by grade and/or institution and a functionally
oriented classification. Unfortunately, the first analysis alone does not
address the match between the civil servant's qualifications and the tasks
that are expected from him in the course of his work. Therefore, an important
first step towards better utilization of manpower in the civil service is to
outline job descripti- for at least some of the key positions on an
institution-by-institution basis. As a first step in this direction, a job
description for managers of financial, administrative and planning units
should be developed in a more concrete fashion.
2.       These descriptions should be sufficiently differentiated to offer,
inter alia, meaningful guidance for recruitment, and for giving the right
signals to the training system (and to a less immediate extent the education
system) to produce the required qualifications.
3.       The mission confirms that a functional job clasbification is of high
priority. It is an essential first step which if not taken would probably
lead to a distorted resolution of the other issues that plague the system. In
other words, before determining the best recruitment policy, the structure of
incentives and performance review, or the need for foreign experts, it is
essential to know what type of people are needed in terms of what they are
expected to do and not simply in terms of generalized occupational
characteristics. Some work along these lines has already been done at CPO and
MOMR but it needs to be further refined.
4.       Shortage of Qualified Civil Servants.  As with the rest of the
economy, the shortage of technically qualified personnel is a major difficulty
for the public administration. Although the availability of more-qualified
people is gradually increasing, it will be some time before enough of them are
sufficiently trained and experienced to fulfill the country's requirements.
In this sense, the overall manpower problem, including the civil service, is
one whose resolution can only come in time as the education and training
system becomes more responsive to the country's needs.
5.       The, shortage problem is compounded by an apparent mismatch between
the education and training attainment of civil servants and the requirements
of the job.
6.       The critical shortage of trained personnel is reflected in several
ways. According to MCSAR officials, a number of positions in various



Annex 2
-36-                             page 2 of 3
technical departments are still vacant.  The greatest difficulties are
experienced in filling higher-level managerial slots and specialized positions
such as doctors, engineers and technical staff.
7.       Another indicator of the shortage of qualified Yemenis for public
employment is the presence of a large number of expatriates. The Ministry of
Education alone had approximately 25,000 expatriates in its employment in
1988. Approximately 500 were also employed by the University of Sana'a. The
Government has identified two major concerns in this area:
(a) Accelerated Training. There is an obvious consensus among senior
government officials on the need for focussed and accelerated
training for civil servants.
(b) Greater Female Participation. In spite of the genuine efforts made
by the Government to increase the number of female staff, only about
5,700 females were employed in the civil service in 1988, amounting
to less than 61 of the total public and mixed sector staff. The
MCSAR report on the employment distribution of the university
graduates in 1985 states that among the 1,335 graduates recruited by
the public sector, 140 were female graduates (about 10.51). With the
rise in female enrollment in the secondary and university education,
it should be possible to tap this potential resource of much needed
trained labor to the extent social and cultural constraints allow.
8.       Foreign Experts.  The need for foreign experts to assist in YAR's
development drive is likely to continue for some time despite the
understandable desire to lImit and eventually reduce dependency on them. In
the meantime, there is a need to ensure that maximum advantage is taken of the
contribution of expatriate staff and consultants. The mission proposes three
actions. First, they should have clear and precise terms of reference.
General TORs that essentially result in having the expert arrive in YAR and
then finding something for him to do are essentially unfair to both parties
and usually are unproductive. Second, within each institution to which
foreign experts are attached, specific responsibility should be assigned to a
national manager to monitor the work of the expert so that he delivers
according to his/her TOR. Third, there is an obvious need for coordinating
the responsibilities, functions and activities of the various sources of
technical assistance. Coordination becomes more manageable and effective once
clear TORs are written and a monitoring system is put into effect.
9.       Streamlinin& the Various Administrative Structures.   The mission's
analysis of the organizational chart of YAR's public administration
immediately suggests that the structure may be overburdened by a relatively
large number of administrative units at a high level in the hierarchy and
reporting directly to the Prime Minister or even to the presidency. A similar
situation is reflected in the various ministries. The situation is
exacerbated by an attendant lack of skilled support staff, with many
higher-level officials forced to share a single support staff member in some
cases. It is obvious that an in-depth study is required before any specific
proposal is presented for the administrative restructuring.



Annex 2
-37 -                            page 3 of 3
10.      Administrative Procedures.  Combined with the top-heavy nature of the
structure of public administration is an apparent reluctance among managers to
delegate authority further down the line. Undoubtedly, in many cases this is
due to the lack of qualified subordinates to whom a superior may delegate.
However, there are many instances where delegation is possible and would be
beneficial to the system as a whole by providing in-house training to the
subordinate and by freeing the superior from some burdens. Moreover, the
abundance of special committees that are created to take action in routine
operations is administratively cumbersome and should be discouraged.
11.      Relationships Between Central and Local Authorities.  The ambiguous
nature of the relationship between central and regional government authorities
has been pointed out by several World Bank economic and sectoral reports. The
ambiguity derives from grafting a modern central administration structure on
to a traditional decentralized tribal system. Although many attempts have
been made by the central government to consolidate its authority, it is
unlikely that much progress can be achieved in the short run given the nature
of this problem. One area in which the local/central relationships have
apparently been successfully coordinated is the present system of Local
Associations for Cooperative Development. There the local initiative has been
maintained and the central authorities are supporting their activities. At
this stage, in YAR, the temptation to "fall into" increased centralization
should be resisted.
12.      According to the World Bank report on Manpower Development in the
Yemen Arab Republic, and as confirmed by the appraisal mission's findings, the
public administration system in YAR has been characterized by a nagging set of
problems and issines, some of which are as old as the system itself and are not
likely to be re,olved for some time. Others are less overwhelming and could
be amenable to remedy by measures that would yield results in a relatively
short time.
13.      Since the "modern" public administration system itself is young and
started from a very low level of development, there exist numerous problems.
Rather than attempt simultaneous correction of these problems an appropriate
priority at this time is to create the conditions necessary to allow for their
eventual resolution over the course of a long-term development path. Thus,
the project seeks not to create a qualified civil service in YAR, but to
develop the infrastructure that will allow for the eventual creation of such a
civil service.
14.      The Government of YAR did set its priorities, with IDA's assistance,
through a classification of issues along with a prioritized set of actions.
These sets of actions, basically, established the scope of the proposed
project.
15.      Needless to say, in some cases a recommended action can only call for
identifying the nature and scope of further work that is needed on a
particular issue before a more specific proposal can be recommended. Thus,
the proposed project components highlight the need for further studies,
training and technical assistance to help both the Government and IDA identify
specific actions to follow.
4610V, pp.3-5



-38 -                             Annex 3
page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Educational and Legal Aspects of Public Administration Development
1.       The preceding part of this Chapter reviewed various determinants,
components and issues of the public administration sector in YAR as it
developed to its present situation. However, although the project stresses
key modifications in the operation of MCEAR and NIPA, it is clear that these
two institutions are not the sole factors; in determining the success of public
sector development. One vitally important input is the main determinant of
the quality of the domestic manpower supply-the education and training
system. The identification of the nature of the manpower flow through this
system will help in the assessment of the system's responsiveness to the
country's manpower requirements. In addition, the state of the present legal
framework within which the civil service operates must also be addressed.
2.       As pointed out by several previous World Bank sector studies, it is
evident that much progress has taken place in developing YAR's education and
training system in the past eighteen years. New schools have been constructed
in urban and rural locations, and the number of students entering and
graduating have increased considerably. During 1986/87 academic year, the
approximate number of students at the primary level was 985,000, at the
preparatory and secondary levels 174,000, and at the university level 16,000
(including about 1,000 students studying abroad). Specialized vocational and
technical centers have been and continue to be established with their
enrollment also on the increase (in 1986/87, 4,000 students were enrolled).
3.       Moreover, an increasing number of in-service training programs
sponsored by various public institutions (CPO, MOA, MOE, MOPW, etc.) are in
operation and provide the coun.ry with some of its much-needed technically
trained manpower. However, despite this progress, the ETS is still relatively
young and, as such, is still characterized by a set of issues and problems
whose resolution offers a serious challenge to manpower and education planning
in the YAR.
In-Service Training
4.       Many of the in-service training arrangements have been responses to
meet the immediate needs of the various development projects in YAR. The
First, Second and Third Five-Year Plans gave some attention to the
out-of-the-country training requirements for specific projects rather than for
programs aimed at institutional development.
5.       A proper balance needs to be established between the public sector
skill needs, the existing manpower supply and the training programs. Such a
balance is required to address the training needs of the existing staff and of



- 39 -                            Annex 3
page 2 of 2
the future recruits. Thus, the proposed project includes a study on the
required changes to make the system more responsive to the Yemeni manpower
requirements.
Administrative Law: Social Objectives and Adminlstrative Efficiency
6.       The concept of administrative law in YAR has begun to evolve from
that of a reflection of the customs, beliefs and ethics of the society toward
that of an instrument at the service of the state. Thus, the drafting of a
new administrative law has become associated with development, modernization
and social change. Unfortunately, this exercise reifes heavily on imported
legal concepts, and YAR has sought to stimulate the development of a public
sector that, besideu its administrative function, also incorporates social
equity goals such as employment of university and vocational school
graduates. In many cases, these social objectives are incompatible with
administrative efficiency. A proper balance needs to be established as soon
as the recommendations of the studies proposed by the project are reviewed by
both the Government and IDA and an action plan for their implementation is
agreed.
4610V, pp.6-7



- 40 -                            ANNEX 4
page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
Creation
The MCSAR, created through Law No. 4 in 1981, is the first entity
with full cabinet status to deal with civil service affairs. YAR's continuing
struggle in establishing a modern and efficient administrative system has
passed through many phases in which the responsibility of development of a
modern and efficient public administration system was assigned and reassigned
to several agencies, committees and departments. They were: the Agency of
Civil Service Affairs (1963-66), the Planning and Control Agency (1966-67),
the Civil Service Authority (1967-76), and the Department of Civil Service
Affairs (1976-81), all of them reported either to the President or the
Presidential Council.
Mandate
MCSAR's mandate includes coordination of the Government's
administrative reform program; design and implementation of an efficient
structure for the Government as a whole and for its ministries and other
agencies; improvement of procedures through organization and methods studies
and ensuring their implementation; promo'ion and supervision of civil service
as a career; formulation of rules and regulations regardir,g job classification
based on duties, responsibilities and jualitications, and proposing policies
on wages, allowances and compensations; ccordination of foreign scholarships
and fellowships; coordination of non-Vemeni experts and employees working in
YAR; supervision of the Retirement and Pension Office; and drafting and
implementing effective and equitable laws and regulation covering these
subjects. It also hosts the supreme council for the civil services which
coordinates policies and measures affecting the civil service and
administrative reform; the council is chaired by the Prime Minister, and in
addition to MCSAR minister, its members include the ministers of Finance,
Education, Economy and Industry, and Social Affairs and Labor, and the rector
of Sana'a University. The scope of MCSAR's mandates and activities is not
confined to the central government. It also includes the public sector, mixed
enterprises in which the Government has part ownerships, and provincial and
local-level government bodies.
Organization and Staffing
To carry out its functions, MCSAR is organized into three operational
sectors: Personnel, Manpower, and Organization and Administration. Each
sector has from two to four general directors who deal with rore specific
tasks into which the funct:.,ns break down, e.g., legislation, training,
inspection and administration in the case of manpower sector. In addition,
MCSAR has 11 regional offices operating in each province of the country, and
has responsibility for operating the personnel departments of all ministries
by placing directors and deputy directors while rest of the staff is provided



- 41 -                            ANNEX 4
page 2 of 3
by the ministry concerned. In keeping with its expanding role, MCSAR has
grown from 42 full-time employees in 1981 to 451, including 116 university
graduates, in March 1987.
AccomRlishments and Present Actions
Faced with the need to innovate a modern system of administration and
to embark rapidly on a program of development, and in spite of lack of trained
manpower to execute these tasks, MCSAR contribution to development of public
administration has been commendable. Major tasks accomplished and currently
ongoing work of MCSAR during the first five years of its existence may be
summarized as follows:
(a) rGovernment Structure. Publication of government organization
handbook; creation of Ministr- of Economy, Trade and Supply through
reorganization of predecessor ministries; reorganization of
Ministries of Agriculture and Interior and ongoing efforts in the
Ministry of Education and Central Planning Organization.
(b) Work Simplification. MCSAR has prepared and issued guidelines on
such subjects as issuance of identification cards and building
permits and various other programs are in different stages of
progress.
(c) Job Analysis and Manpower Planning. MCSAR has completed a first
round of job analyses in all government agencies and is currently
developing corresponding job descriptions. It has also completed an
internal review of its present personnel and their skills
shortcomings, and prepared a projection of personnel and skills
requirements during the TFYP (1987-91).
(d) Personnel Administration. Through its central control, MCSAR is in
effect running various ministries' personnel affairs; their personnel
units are headed by MCSAR officials who enforce standardized rules
and guidelines designed to ensure that personnel administration is
carried out efficiently and equitably. A complete personnel file
system is in the process of being assembled; its first phase,
covering MCSAR personnel, has been completed.
(e) Legislation. MCSAR has made valuable contributions to the new
codification of regulations and to the updating of the existing body
of laws and regulations relating to: executive regulations of the
civil services, conditions of contracting non-Yemeni consultants and
employees, the operation of pension fund, the conditions of
employment of personnel in public sector and mixed enterprises, and
rules concerning fellowships granted to government employees.
4610V, pp8-9



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CHART I - MCSAR S ORGANIZAkTIONAL CART AS OF SEPTEMBER 1985
1L!  ITR                                           |M1nissor's Offlcet
Gen. Admn. for Plann1ns,||Advis°rsi                                                      |Public Relations & Comolaint Deot.1
lstatistics & FO110W-UD I
| Comittee on Non-Yemeni            Higher Comuittee on       iMinistry                 lNational Institute ofl            iRetirement Offical
IExperts & Emolovees' Affairs     Scholarships & Students      Council                   Public Administration
,sent to Forelan Univs.
_                      |~~~~~~~Deputy Minister's Secretariatl
|  Sector Undersec. 'sI.ISey e.     l SeatoSrI    ISector Undersec.s _|lanow(    Sectarl                          Sectnr Undersec.'s_ IOrganization
Secretariat    1               |                  Secretariat                           1 ||Secretariad   S                                      rl
Gen. Admn. for      Gen. Admn. for    Gen. Admn. for        Gen  Adim.        Gen. Adam. Gen. Adnm.             Gen. Adnm.
Financial & Admv.        Budget 8         Govermnent          for Admv.       fo, Training      for Control &       for             for Job      for Organiza-   N
Affairs              Reaister        _  Personnel        LeUislation   8 Students Sent        Inspection   I ZanDor         U   jaslfjcatIf n    tion 8 Work
______________       ____________                       to   Foreign   Urivs.  JAu iit.l    s..e
Secretarial &  |                        Recruitment                        to  _ra       vAd
,Filina Oent.   I    Ieud't..lntj-    Appointments  _i -ntrol                                              _    Manpower       Job Classi-  -  Organ2-|
Hirin4 Dept.                                           Dunartrment      Planning  ,   fication        tIin Dent.I
P urement  cl    IRegister    I_    _ OStudents sent  |Dept,                                                                   Oeartmnt
tsJrch  eDt.  |  DeDartmn   |    |p_1ni-ons ] an                to Foreign Uni-_   oIsec1n I                                         |ok Sys-  |-i
WhsiAtg                                                                    versI jesnqu rDese[to  ( h Audit)    _- Non-Yemeni    jIare & Sala-| I ef, I eR..
lACCtD.   ud-  |Deartment                                                                        Dent       I   Experts &       ry Policies
14et Dept,     ff                                                                                              IEmployees'   I0elartmnt.I
Affairs
ministry's Offices il                                Directors & Deputy
_|  Various Reaions                           _| |Directors of Person-
I _______I_______ I___                                 nel  Units   in  Govern-
|-1    § |                            | | | tn~~~~~~~ent Anencise|                                                               |
Source:  YAR Goverrment
4610V
_~~~~



A... r  4
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVICE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM
Present Personnel and Projected Personnel Requirements
(1988-1992)
Actual as of 03/88    Estimated ('92)
Higher                      Higher
Level    Univ.              Level
Total  Grades  Graduate   Total   Grades
A. Permanent Employees
Working at MCSAR Sanaa' total
Minister's office, including
Gen. Adm. for Planning, Statistics
& Follow-up                           37        11       10       70       NA
Deputy MinisLer's Office, including
Gen. Adm. for Financial & Adm.
Affairs                               97        14       12      126       NA
Government Personnel Sector             53        21       19      100       NA
Manpower Secter                         50        26       2',      98       NA
Organizat :,  & AA*  S-ttot             21        16       15       45       NA
Subtotal                             258        88       81     439
Working at other Miistt .#s, totalL&       44        13       13       54
Subtotal:  Workin gat Sana'a         302       101       94     493       290
Working at MCSAR regional offices          81        30       25       NA       NA
Total Permanent Employees                 383       131      119       NA       NA
B. Contracted Employees
Total Contracted Employees                 68        M NA     NA       NA       NA
TOTAL MCSAR EMPLOYEES                          AU        NA       NA       NA       NA
La  Mainly as directors and deputy directors of personnel departments.
/b Of whom 55 are Yemeni, 13 non-Yemeni.
NA - Not Available
Source: Compiled from data provided by MCSAR.
4610V, p. 11



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROIECT
Ob1ectivges Components and Monitorina Schedule
Priority Area                           Comnonent        _                  Actions/Subcomponents                       Performance Ind'cator/Taraet
Ci) Capacity enhancement
in selected areas.
(a) Manpower Oevelopment    Consultant* support (48 WMs)        Analysis of future manpower requirements:    Draft plan to be ready in mid-1992. Annual
Planning                 International Fellowship"          - Sk' shortages                                 review and update in subsequent years.
(79 MHS)                          'airwng requirements
- 0anDower statistics
- Coordination of training (lnternationa;
fellowship)
(b) Personnel Policy &       Consultant* support (53 HMs)         ti) study of present system                    (0) start-up study by April 1989.
(138 MHs)                        (ii) action plan covering:                      (ii) Revised policy and procedures for
- personnel policy                             its administration to be completed   j
- recruitment                                  by early-1993.
- job description
- incentives & promotion
- wage/salary administration
- retirement & pension
- harmonization with new law
(c) Management Information  Consultant support (78 MMs)         Development o0  computer system to record         (1) Completion of design & bidding
System                 Fellowships (102 M4s)              accurate information on skills shortages.             docunents 6/89; completion of
Civil Works                       manpower supply, etc.                                  construction 6/92.
Computer hardware & software                                                       (11) Procurement & Installation of
computer 6/92.
t1i1) 102 M4s of international fellowship
training . 78 19s of consultant
services to be procured between 1989
1993.
td) Government               Consultant' support (45 ttMs)      Review of existing overall structure.           Where necessary. restructuring of up to 8
organization           Fellowships" (157 Mls)             Recommendations regarding possible changes   ministries/government agencies to be
for new structure.                             completed during life of the project.
Government Operation    Consultant' support (56 MMs)        Job classification system.                      Assistance to at least six ministries/
Fellowships" (159 MMs)            Increased emphasis on delegation                government agencies during life of the  
of responsibility.                           project.                                  oa :3
Simplification of work procedures.                                                        mx
(e) MCSAR's structure        Consultant support (3 MMs)         Study of MCSAR's function & organization.    Start-up of study by April 1989.             O'
To be procured between 1989 and 1993.
To be completed between 1989 and 1994.



(i) Quality improvement
(a) Staff development        922 M14s of fellowship               (I) Qualification improvement.                 (1) 19 fellowships--3 Ph.D.. 16 MA--to be
training                           (ii) Skill upgrading and teacher                     completed between 1990 and 1994.
training.                                 (1i) 12 fellowships (144 14t4) completed
(iii) Design of short courses and                    between 1990 and 1994.
induction courses design.
(b) Research and             Consultants in research &            MI) Oevelopment of work program and R&C        (A) To be ready in mid-19"1.
consultancy              consultancy practices                  Plan.                                     (Mi) Provided during intermittent visit
(36 1Ms); fellowships            0ii) In-house training seminars for                 of consultants starting in 19"0.
(102 M9s)                              interested staff.                       (iii) Four fellowships (96 Ms) completed
(iiM) Training of staff in R8C.                      between 1990 and 1993.
(iv) Implementation of work program, at        (iv) To be completed between 1991 and 199S.
least four projects.
(c) Lono-term plan           Consultants in institutional       Identification of changing demands.            Long-term Plan to be completed by mid-1992.
plannino (10 MSs)               Client priorities reflected in program.
Fellowship in public              Program evaluation/review.
relationg (4 MMs)               Curriculum development needs.
id) Decision-making          Consuitants in staff develop-        (l'. Establishment of Academic Board         li) & (Mi) These changes to be effected by
structure                  ment, curriculum, pedagogy             with subcomuittees on:                         09/89; with consultant support L
education technology                     external relations                           counterpart staff.
(30 MSs); fellowships in              - research & consultancy
the similar areas (28 I*s)            - curriculum development & review                                                      a-
- staff develcpment
(IM) Development of TORs & procedures
for each committee.
(iii) In-hoL_9 traintng to NIPA staff In    (MAi) Training of all staff cowpleted
teaching methods, education                    between 1990 & 1992 through
technology and curriculum                      intermittent visit of consultants;
development.                                   international fellowships to 5 senior
staff (20 Mls) in curriculum
development. pedagogy and staff
development completed between 199O a*d
1992.
(e) Buildings & Equipment   Sanaa, Ibb                            (4) Extension of 10 Sana'a buildings           (i) Completion of design and bidding
and a new building at Ibb branch.              documents 6/89; completion of
(Mi) Equipment and furniture support at             construction 6/92.
Sana a and Ibb.                          0(i) Procurement and installation of
equipment by 6/92.
(f) Teacher support          690 M49 of experts                Continuation of programs while staff are        690 Mms of experts procured between  M990
on fellowships.                              and 1994 for education and training program.
Curriculum development/review.
Teaching material development.
Teaching methods improvemnt.
4610V. pp. 12-13
-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~



- 46 -                          Annex 6
page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (NIPA)
Objectives and Programs
1.       In recognition of the critical shortage of technically qualified
personnel, the school for training clerical staff at Sana'a (established in
1963) was given a new mandate in 1974 and upgraded as National Institute for
Public Administration (NIPA). Since then, NIPA's affiliation, role and
functions have changed over the years reflecting the growth and development of
the Government and its functions. Since 1981, according to a government
degree, NIPA is required to convene seminars, conduct in-service training
programs, and organize post-secondary and post-graduate study programs in all
aspects of public administration. In awdition, it is required to engage in
research and consultancy activities and publish in the field of public
administration and related subjects.
Mandate
2.       NIPA is YAR's main public administration training agency.  It is
responsible, in accordance with Presidential Decree No. 131 of 1981, for "the
development of all aspects of national administration and the promotion of all
types of training for officials in the civil service and the public and mixed
ownership enterprises". In addition to its training responsibilities, the
Decree authorizes NIPA to conduct higher education programs at the
post-graduate level, to engage in research and consultancy activities, and to
publish in the field of public administration and related subjects.
3.       NIPA's tecord of activities is impressive both in terms of numbers
and variety. Its enrollments expanded at a rapid rate during the last six
years from 560 to over 2000 in 1986 and dropped drastically in 1987. This
drop is attributed to shortage of staff and higher priority to short courses
and post-secondary diploma courses in 1987. Only courses longer than five
months, including post-graduate and diploma courses, provide incentives to
participant. These incentives include YRI 500 additional salary, increments
on graduation, and priority for promotion and for training courses abroad.
These incentives for long programs and non-incentives for short programs have
curtailed the effectiveness of NIPA's programs according to needs.
4.       During 1980-87, 5600 employees graduated from a total enrollment of
7600 in various training programs (Table 3). These training programs
included: (a) seminars and workshops which run for one and two weeks,
respectively, are meant for top and middle management personnel and cover such
topics as leadership, performance improvement, internal controls, budgeting
and local administration; (b) short-term programs, which last for two months
and are meant for specialists such as accountants, personnel officers, store
purchase officers, statisticians, etc.; and (c) long-term training programs,
which last for six to nine months are meant for specialists too but provide
better coverage of topics, provide better financial incentives, promotion



Annex 6
page 2 of 3
opportunities and opportunities for fellowship training abroad and are,
therefore, more popular.
5.       To develop more specialized skills in middle level managers, NIPA
started a two-year post secondary diploma program in 1983 with specializations
in development administration and accounting examination for this diploma
program are conducted under the supervision of University of Sana'a. As an
added incentive, highly successful students are admitted to the faculty of
Business Administration to continue their education to continue their
education for two or more years to obtain B.A. degree. A high wastage rate
(702), (Table 3) is attributed to curricula that trainees consider irrelevant
to their job requirements and most importantly to seek gainful employment in
afternoons due to poor salaries provided by civil servants. These courses,
considered as very useful by NIPA,s clients, require improved curricula,
qualified full-time teachers and a vigorous program for the development of
teaching materials to be the mainstay for preparing middle-level management.
6.       NIPA started a one-year post graduate diploma program in 1980 with
specializations in public administration, business administration, and
accounting and auditing, and is supervised and supported by Faculty of
Business and Economics, University of Sana'a. This program focusses on
acquisition of theoretical knowledge rather than on preparing qualified
practitioners equipped with policy analysis, skills and managerial talent for
leadership. This program represents a significant investment of teaching
resources in a few students and, accordingly, the cost and benefits of this
program versus other priority needs have to be assessed.
7.       Demand for NIPA's educational and training activities and lack of
qualified staff (Tables 2 & 4) have overshadowed its research and consulting
services. Unlike its impressive record in terms of numbers in education and
training programs, NIPA is still in the process of establishing itself in the
areas of research and consultancy.
Organization and Staffing
8.       The special status of NIPA is illustrated by the fact that its Dean
has the rank of Minister. In spite of being attached to MCSAR, NIPA maintains
its administrative and financial autonomy. The Board of Trustees chaired by
Minister of :ICSAR is the policy-making authority of NIPA. The day-to-day
administration of NIPA is the responsibility of the vice-dean since the dean
has officially delegated his responsibility to the vice-dean (Chart 1). A
technical committee with joint membership of NIPA and University of Sana'a
reviews and approves the curriculum, methods and evaluates NIPA's work
programs. NIPA operates from four centers: its headquarters in Sana'a and
three branches in Taiz, Hodeidah and Ibb.  Taiz and Hodeidah have been
established with IDA assistance under the Third Education project (Credit 915)
and along with the headquarters in Sana'a have received technical assistance
under the Sixth Education project (Credit 1470). NIPA currently has 167 full
time staff of which 29 are females, 14 hold a masters degree and 60 possess a
university first degree; and another 17 fellows are abroad with 16 seeking a
masters degree and 1 in a doctorate level program (Tables 1 and 2).
4610V, ppl4-15



Annex 6
-48 -                                      Page 3 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CHART 2 - NIPA'S ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Board of Trustees
1-                                               I
Academljc Board                                  ueansnin-Office
External    Curriculwm   Staff   R 8 C      Section         Section        Section       Section
Relations      Devt.      Devt.   Comm.     Statistics      Secretariat    Typing        Projects
Comn.    Cu mm.        Cotn.
II                                 I                                     I
Adininstration         Higher                                             Research &
and Finance         Education                        Training            Consultancy
Division         ODivsion                          Divi sions10n
I                  I                              II
Sections          SectionsSectionsSecsions
- Accounts     - Graduate Studies                - Public Adm.         - Research
- Personnel    - Post Secondary                  - Acctg. & Fin.       - Consultancy
Services         Studies                       - Office Adm.         - Conferences &
- Languages              Workshops
- Library &
Documentation
- Printing &
Publication
raunch             Branch                Branuch
Hodeidah             Taiz                  Ibb
4610V. p. 16



- 49 -                               Annex 6
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Staff by Divisions and Location4A
(December 31, 1987)
Division                   Sana'a        Taiz       Hodeidah       Total
Dean's Office                        12            -             -           12
Branch Offices                        -            1             1            2
Higher Studies                        7            -             -            7
Training                             23            8            10           41
Research & Consultancy                8            -             -            8
Personnel & Financial Affairs        47           20            11           80
Fellows Abroad                       11            4             4           17
TOTAL                               108           33            26          167
Ia  Staff data for Ibb Center (established in 1988) were not provided as they
are still being recruited.
SOURCE: Statistical Section, NIPA
4610V, p. 17



- 50 -                           Annex 6
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Total Staffing Position and Post-Graduate Shortages
Other    Current    Staff /a
Education           Sana'a     Centers    Total      Required    Shortages
Ph.D.                                    -         (3) /b      8           5
Masters or
Graduate Diploma        (14) /b        -         14         39          16
University Deg-.ee         35           25         60          -           -
Others                     59           34         93          -           -
Total                     108           59     167(17) /b     47          21
/a Based on mission estimates and recommendations of the Pre-Investment Study
prepared under Credit 1470-YAR in 1987.
/b Currently undertaking fellowship studies outside YAR.
SOURCE: Statistical Section, NIPA
4610V, p. 18



Annex 6
-51-                                                   Table 3
YEMEN ARAB RtPUBLIC
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Trainina and Educational Activities
(1980-1987)
Activities                         1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   Total
SeminarsoA                       Enrollment       82    225    167    626    488    351         86    276    2301
Graduates        82    225    167    626    488    351        83    276    2198
WIorkshops-A                     Enrollment         -      -    208    107    108       72      10      16     521
Graduates         -       -    189    107    108       72     10      16      502
Short-Term Programs"8            Enrollment      156    264    171       10      57     75       -      -      733
Graduates       156    246    166       10     57      74      -       -      709
Long-Term Programs-C             Enrollment         -      -       -    106    161    226    182    1S9        834
Graduates         -       -      -      SO     89    101      80      89     409
Office Mgmt. Programs/C          Enrollment      299    283    225    266    102    282    867    305    2629
Graduates       175    163    123       94     83    144    150    275    1207
Graduate Studies/D               Enrollment       21      22     41      57      60    231    210      99      741
Graduates        15      16     30      26     28    151    142       33     441
Post-Sec. School 0iploma-"E      Enrollment         -      -       -    231    367    514    667    571    2350
Graduates         -       -      -       -    112    113    123       98     447
TOTAL                            Enrollment      558    794    813   1403   1343   1751   2022   1426   10209
Graduates       428    650    675    913    965   1006    589    787    6013
SOURCE: Statistical Section. NIPA
La  The average duration is 1 2 weeks: course participants include senior officials, deputy ministers and
governors: course coverage include wide range of topics in PA; participation in on decline due to
staff shortages in NIPA.
Lb  The average duration is 1-S months; participants include specialist staff (e.g.. accountants'; course
topics vary according to NIPA's perception of needs; due to lack of promotional incentives, these
courses have been phased out since 1986.
La  Average duration 9-12 months; participants include lower- and middle-level management and
specialists; specializations include PA, business administration, accounting and auditing.
organization and methods; are considered useful; average wastage 'ate SO.
Ld  Ouration 12 months; participants include graduates in civil services and public sector;
specializations offered include PA. business administration. accounting and auditing; average wastage
rate 35.
L&  Duration 24 months; participants include high school graduates in civil service and public sector;
specializations offered include development administration and accounting; average wastage rate 7M.
4610V. p. 18



ANNEX 7
-52 -
YENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
MINISTRY OF CIVIL SERVrCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFORS
SUmnarY of the Technical Assistance Progosals
TOTAL                         FY
I. ODslam,.nt of MCSAROs Capacity
nanmower A Trainina Plannine
Cons. LT                         1    36    36         -       12     12      12      -       -      36
Cons. ST La                      6      2    12        4        2      2       2      2       -      12
FelTowship                       3    1S    45         -       12     24       9      -       -      4S
ST Training (Local)              5      6    30        -       6       6       6      6       6      30
(Int'l)             7     a    34                 6       8      6       8       6     34
Personnel Police A Administration
Cons. LT                         1    36    36         -       12     12      12      -       -      36
Cons. ST La                      2      4.5
(    3     2    1S        9        a       2      2       -       -     1S
Fellowship                  (    2    36
2    1S   102        -       36     30      36       -      -    102
ST Training (Local)              5      6    30        -       6       6       6      6       6      30
(Int'l)             7     9    36                 6       9      6       9       6     36
6avernmant Organization 8 Structure
Cons. LT                         1    36    36         -       12     12      12      -       -      36
Cons. STLa k                     2      1.5
(    3     2      9        3       2       2      2       -       -      9
Fellowship                  (    3    36
(    1    15   123         -      36      48     39       -       -    123
St Training (Local)              5      6    30        -        6      6       6      6       6      30
(Int'l)             7      8    34                8       6       8      6       6      34
YEcar,nmnt optns. A Mant.
Cons. LT                         1    42    42                 12     12      12      6       -      42
Cons. ST                         4      2     8                 2      2       2      2       -       8
Fellowship LT               (    3    36
1    15   123                36     48      39       -      -    123
Fellowships ST (Local)           S      6    30                 6      6       6      6       6      30
(Intil)          7     9    36                 9       6      9       6      6      36
Proiect Inolemantation
St Training (Intl) La    C    2         3
C    6     2    18        18       -       -      -       -       -       -
Pre-investment Study                   1     6      6                -       -      -       6       -      6
IS. ff11
Cons. LT                         3    24    72                 18     30      24       -      -      72
Cons. ST                         2      3     6                 2      2       2       -      -       6
Fellowship                       3    24    72                 36     36       -       -      -      72
ST Training (Local               5      6    30                 6      6       6      6       6      30
(Reg'l)             S      6    30                6       6       6      6       6      30
TALS
Cons. LT                                               -       66     78      72      6       -    228
Cons. ST                                              16       10     10      10      10      -      56
Fellowship                                             -      156    166    123        -      -    465
ST Training (Local)                                    -       30     30      30     30      30    150
(Int'l)                                  18       35     35      35     35      30    188
La PPF-supported studies and training.
4610V. p. 23



-53                                                     Annex 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
SuymarX of the Technical Assistance Proposals
Category                                               TOTAL
I. Strategic Planning
nevelogment of a Long-Term Plan for                                                              FY
NIPA's activities                                                              1=9B  192 1221 l911 1     i92  1994 1925
Cons.: Planning & Management                    2          2          4          2    2
Cons.: Institutional Planning                   2          3          6                    6
Fellowship: Public Relations                    1         4           4                    4
Imaroving Academic Decision-Mak1ing in NIPA
Cons.: Staff Development                        1         6           6                     3    3
Cons.: Curriculum                               2         6          12                     3    3    3    3
Cons.: Pedagogy                                 1         6           6                          3    3
Cons.: Educational Technology                   1         6           6                          3    3
Fellowship: Staff Development                   1         4           4               2    2
Fellowship: Curriculum                          2         6          12                     2    2    4    4
Fellowship: Pedagogy                            2         6          12                          6    3    3
X1. Introvement of Education 8 Trainina
Programs in NIPA
Staff Oevelopment
Fellowships: Ph.D                               3        42         126               8   28   36   36   16    2
Fellowships: Masters                           16        36         576         20   60   80  144  172  110
Fellowships: Teacher training                  12         9         108               6   25   25   25   27
Fellowships: Short course design                S         2          10               4    6
Fellowships: Induction course design            2          1          2               2
Strenathenina research A
consultancv services in NIPA
Cons.: Research methodology                     1         6           6                     3    3
Cons.: Consultancy methods          '           1         6           6                          3    3
Cons.: In Work Program to be specified          4         6          24               2    6    6    6    4
Fellowships: Ph.D (research methods)            2        42          84               4   16   24   24   14    2
Fellowships: Research methods                   1         6           6                     3    3
Fellowships: Consultancy                        1         6           6                          3    3
Fellowships: Short courses                      6          1          6               1    2    2    1
Project Imlementation Unit (NIPAI
Fellowships: Procurement and
Project management                 2          3          6          4    2
|tX. Teacher Support in NIPA
Experts: Office Kanagement                      1)        12)        12                         12
3)       48)        144              12   36   36   36   24
Experts: To be specified                       12          3         36              3      9    9    9    6
Experts: Accountancy                            1)       24)         24                         12   12
3)       48)        144             12    36   36   36   24
Experts: Economics                              2        48          96              8    24   24   24   16
Experts: Public administration                  1)        24)        24                         12   12
3)       48)        144             12    36   36   36   24
Experts: To be specified                        1         18         18              3      4    4    4    3
Experts: Change/O.D.                            4          3         12              2      3    5    2
Experts: Information Technology                 3          7         21                     4    S    6    3    3
Experts to be specified                         5          3         15                     3    3    3    3    3
Consultants                                                          76          2    4   21   24   18    7
Experts (teacher support)                                           690              52  1SS  194  180  103    6
Fellowships                                                         962         24   89  164  24S  260  168    4
4610V. p. 24



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMrNISTRATION PROJECT
Imolenientation Schedule (MCSAR)
1988    1     1989        1990         1991        1992          1993        1994         1995          1996
_______~~~~ 2                            J              2XA JW  4 1 W2             W                23412341 2W WA4WA  J2 3
Preliminary DrawingsI                       I 
Construction Drawings                       I==
Bid Documents
Bidding (LCB)
Construction                                           =1:          
Guarantee Period                                                                 ==:==
EOUIPMENT~ FURNIT_URE AND
Final Lists & Specifications             I
Bid Documents
Bidding (ICB)-=
Manufacturing & Delivery                                     -------
Installation----4
Guarantee PeriodI
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEI
Long-term Consultants                                  ---------
Short-term Consultants                                         ==
Overseas Fell owshi ps
Overseas Short-term Training                           -------
Project                                                                                         ProJect
o IDA Approval                         Effectiveness                                                                                    Closing
4610V, P. 25



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
imnlementation Schedule INIPAI
1988    T    198          1990         1991       1992          1993        1994         1995         1996
_ _ _ _  _    _    _                  JJ~~~~~~~-    2 A 3 J4 WL  4    W A2  3 W            1234123 4W   W2  3~L   4.1                34
Preli1.1nary DrawlingsI                    I =
Construction Drawings
Bid Docunents
Bidding (LCB)
Construction                          
Guarantee Period= 
EOUIPM4ENT. FURNITURE AND
VEILES
Final Lists & Specifications            1-
Bid Documtents---
Bidding (ICB)                                                -
Manufacturing & Delivery 
Installation===
Guarantee Period                                                               ------
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 
Teacher Support---------------
Short-term  Consultants                               ---
Overseas Fellowships                    I==~- =
Overseas Short-term  Training                                  =I-                               =I
Project                                                                                        Project
o IDA Approval                         Effectiveness),                                                                                Closing 
4610V, p. 26



Annex 11
- 56 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IDA Fiscal
Year and              Disbursements                  Disbursement Profile
Semester      Semester Cumulative  Balance   This Project/a  Country Average/b
(IUs$ million)                       -  (%)
1989
1            -           -         -              _
2            0.4/c       0.4      10.4            3.7               -
1990
1            0.6/d       1.0       9.8            9.2               1.0
2            0.9         1.9       8.9           17.6               4.0
1991
1            0.9         2.8       8.0           25.9               9.0
2            1.1         3.9       6.9           36.1              16.0
1992
1            1.3         5.2       5.6           48.1              25.0
2            1.5         6.7       4.1           62.0              34.0
1993
1            1.4         8.1       2.7           75,0              44.0
2            0.8         8.9       1.9           82.4              54.0
1994
1            0.7         9.6       -             88.9              64.0
2            0.4        10.0       0.8           92.6              72.0
1995
1            0.3        10.3       0.5           95.4              80.0
2            0.2        10.5       0.3           97.2              85.0
1996
1            0.2        10.7       0.1           99.1              91.0
2            0.1        10.8       0.0          100.0              95.0
NOTE:  Closing Date - June 30, 1996
/a  This profile shows cumulative disbursement percentage estimates for the
Project.
/b  This profile was constructed using historical data from 35 projects
representing all credits in YAR FY74-82.
/c  Represents amount of PPF advancement.
/d  Represents initial deposits in the Special Accounts (para. 3.23).
4610V, p. 27



Annex 12
57 -                          page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Experience With Past IDA Lending in Education and Training Sector
1.       IDA's involvement in education and training started in 1973 and has
played a central role in the sector. Out of eight education credits totalling
US$83.0 million, two are completed.
2.       The First Education Project--Credit 421-YAR, US$11.0 million-was
approved in FY73 and completed in FY80. It expanded and upgraded primary and
secondary teacher training, established training programs for skilled workers
and junior technicians, and increased non-formal training. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR), dated December 16, 1983, noted the
institutional improvements in administration, planning and curriculum
development, and the strengthening of local capabilities for implementing
school construction. The Second Education Project--Credit 611-YAR, US$8.0
million-was approved in FY76 and completed in FY82. It reinforced the thrust
of the First Education Project in teacher training, vocational training and
basic education; it also supported a basic training fund and the local
Droduction of educational materials. The PPAR, dated December 29, 1983,
commented that implementation was timely and effective and that educational
objectives were generally met; it also noted the impact of the basic training
fund on rural development and the full utilization of the primary teacher
training institutes for females. Six ongoing projects are being
satisfactorily implemented. These projects are generally meeting their
objectives and form a cohesive core of IDA-assisted projects in the sector.
The Third Education Project--Credit 915-YAR, US$10.0 million-was approved in
FY80. The project supports the Government's aim to expand agricultural
secondary education and strengthen public administration. Pre-investment
studies related to basic health-care training included in the project led to
an IDA-assisted health project. The Fourth Education Project--Credit
1203-YAR, US$12.0 million, approved in FY1983-increases the utilization of
existing PTTIs and vocational training centers; it assists in meeting
shortages of Yemeni engineers through the establishment of a Faculty of
Engineering; and it assists in improving education quality and efficiency
through the establishment of the Education Research and Development Center.
The Fifth Education Project--Credit 1340-YAR, US$10.0 million, approved in
FY1984--supports the establishment of PTTIs in rural areas; it also provides
further support to the d'strict training centers in rural areas.  The Sixth
Education Project-Credit 1470-YAR, US$10.0 million, approved in
FY1985-further supports teacher training by the provision of further PTTIs in
rural areas; helps strengthen teacher quality through the establishment of a
senior PTTI; and provides further assistance for the expansion of district
training centers. The Technical Training Project--Credit 1645-YAR, US$12.7
million, approved in FY1986-supports the Government in implementing priority



Annex 12
-58 -                           page 2 of 2
technical and vocational education programs to alleviate shortages of
technical manpower and develops its capacity to train technical/vocational
instructors locally. The Teacher Training Project (Credit 1773-YAR, US$10.4
million), approved in FY88, helps strengthen teacher training for both primary
and secondary education and support establishment of a trainer-training
program for PTTI teachers.
4610V, pp.28-29



Annex 13
- 59 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
General Reports and Studies Relating to Public Administration
1. Yemen Arab Republic, The Third Five-Year Plan. 1987-91
2. Manpower Development in the Yemen Arab Republic, World Bank Report No.
3181-YAR, dated March 2, 1981.
Report and Studies Related to the Project
3. YAR - Laws and Regulations of the Civil Services, June 1986
4. YAR - NIPA's Submissions to Third Five-Year Plan (1987-91)
5. YAR - Statistical Analysis of University Graduates Allocation (1982-84),
February 1986
6. YAR - Statistics of Employment in the Civil Service, 1968-84
7. YAR - Education Special Study, NIPA, World Bank Report No. 4470-YAR, May
1983
8. YAR - Budget of Jobs in YAR, MCSAR Report, 1987
9. YAR - Pre-investment Study Report on NIPA, Sixth Education Project,
January 1987
10. Project Proposal Submitted by MCSAR & NIPA, March 1988
Selected Working and Implementation Papers
11. NIPA - Project of Enrollments
- Annual Statistics
- Budget 1987-88
12. MCSAR - Budget 1987-88
13. Technical Assistance Strategy and TORs
4610V, p. 30



,            ~~MAP SECTION
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



