Page  1
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2015 YAR
                  Development Credit Agreement
              (Institutional Development for Public
                     Administration Project)
                             between
                       YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
                               and
              INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 3, 1990
                                         CREDIT NUMBER  2015  YAR
                  DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 3, 1990, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                General Conditions.; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
     (a)  "MCSAR"' means the Ministry of Civil Service and Adminis-
trative Reform established and operating under the Borrower's Law
No. 4 of 1981, authorized by the Borrower to execute Part A of the
Page  2
Project;
     (b)  "NIPA" means the National Institute of Public
Administration established under the Borrower's Law No. 32 of 1974
and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 131 of 1981, authorized
by the Borrower to execute Part B of the Project;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated June 14, July 2 and July 22, 1988,
between the Borrower and the Association;
     (d)  "Public Sector" means all government institutions at
central, regional and local levels, including parastatal companies;
and
     (e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                           ARTICLE II
                           The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in-Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special account in the
Central Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate set
as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Page  3
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 1999 and ending May 15, 2029.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on May 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product  per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded  $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii)  the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid.  If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of
some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments,
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                           ARTICLE III
                    Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
through MCSAR and shall carry out Part B of the Project through
NIPA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and management practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
Page  4
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                           ARTICLE IV
                       Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)   The Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to:
            (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                    for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the
                    Association;
           (ii)     furnish to the Association, as soon as
                    available, but in any case not later than nine
                    months after the end of each such year, a
                    certified copy of the report of such audit by
                    said auditors, of such scope and in such
                    detail as the Association shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
          (iii)     furnish to the Association such other
                    information concerning said records, accounts
                    and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                    from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                    accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                    records and accounts reflecting such
                    expenditures;
           (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the
                    Association has received the audit for the
                    fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                    the Credit Account was made, all records
                    (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                    and other documents) evidencing such
                    expenditures;
          (iii)     enable the Association's representatives to
                    examine such records; and
           (iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are
                    included in the annual audit referred to in
                    paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                    report of such audit contains a separate
                    opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                    statements of expenditure submitted during
                    such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                    and internal controls involved in their pre-
                    paration, can be relied upon to support the
                    related withdrawals.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE V
                           Termination
     Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VI
            Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of the
Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Central Planning Organization
          P.O. Box 175
          Sana'a
          Yeman Arab Republic
               Cable address:                Telex:
               CENPLAN                            2266 CENPLAN YE
               Sana'a
          For the Association:
               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                        248423 (RCA)
or
                                                  64145  (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                       YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
                         By/s/ Mohsin Alaimi
                                        Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By/s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                                   Acting Regional Vice President
                             Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Page  6
                           SCHEDULE 1
            Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                     Amount of the
                                   Credit Allocated             %
of
                                     (Expressed in
Expenditures
     Category                        SDR Equivalent         to be
Financed
(1)  (a)  Civil works                        380,000        51%
          for MCSAR
          under Part A
          of the Project
     (b)  Civil works                       1,140,000       51%
          for NIPA
          under Part B
          of the
          Project
(2)  (a)  Equipment,                         575,000        100% of
foreign
          furniture
expenditures,
          vehicles                                     100% of
local
          and materials                                expenditures
          for MCSAR                                    (ex-factory
          under Part A                                 cost) and
85%
          of the Project                               of local ex-
                                                       penditures
for
                                                       other items
                                                       procured
                                                       locally
     (b)  Equipment                     810,000        100% of
foreign
          furniture
expenditures,
          vehicles and                                 100% of
local
          materials for                                expenditures
          NIPA under                                        (ex-
factory
          Part B of                                    cost) and
85%
          the Project                                       of
local ex-
                                                       penditures
for
                                                       other items
                                                       procured
                                                       locally
(3)  (a)  Consultants'                 1,060,000       100% of
foreign
          services                                     expenditures
          for MCSAR under                                   and 90%
of
          Part A of the                                local
          Project                                      expenditures
Page  7
     (b)  Consultants'                 1,880,000       100% of
foreign
          services                                     expenditures
          for NIPA                                     and 90% of
          under Part B                                 local ex-
          of the Project                               penditures
(4)  (a)  Training and                  700,000        100%
          fellowships
          for MCSAR under
          Part A of the
          Project
     (b)  Training and                 1,045,000       100%
          fellowships
          for NIPA under
          Part B of the
          Project
(5)  Refunding of                       305,000        Amount due
pur-
     Project Preparation                               suant to
     Advance                                           Section 2.02
                                                       (c) of this
                                                       Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                             305,000
                                      ____________
               TOTAL                         8,200,000
                                      ============
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) expenditures under
any of Categories l(a), 2(a) and 3(a) until the Borrower shall have
submitted an action program for 1990-1994 with a timetable for the
carrying out of Parts A (1), A (2) and A (3) of the Project, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (c)
expenditures under any of Categories l(b), 2(b) and 3(b) until the
Borrower shall have submitted an action program for 1990-1991 with
a time table for the carrying out of Parts B (1), B (2) and B (3)
of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                   Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve MCSAR's
capabilities for planning and implementing the structural and
managerial development of the public civil service; and (ii) to
improve NIPA's capabilities for identification, design and delivery
of training programs to develop a qualified, professional civil
service.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  8
Part A:   Assistance to MCSAR
     This component provides for the strengthening of MCSAR's
institutional and human resources, through:
1.   Manpower development planning.  This includes assessment and
programming of training needs for the public sector, development of
a manpower and training plan, and development of staff capabilities
in manpower statistics.
2.   Personnel policy and administration.  This includes the
assessment, development and implementation of personnel policies
and development of staff capabilities in job classification and
grading, staff evaluation and development, and employee statistics.
3.   Government organization and operations.  This includes the
assessment and strengthening of administrative procedures through
development of staff capabilities in performance evaluation, work
classification, public systems analysis, Public Sector management
and Public Sector economics, accounting, financial management, and
work organization and methods.
4.   Management information capacity.  This includes the
establishment and operation of a computer processing unit for
operation of an integrated civil service management information
system.
Part B:   Assistance to NIPA
     This component provides for the strengthening of NIPA's
institutional and human resources, through:
1.   Development of staff capabilities.  This includes the
development of staff capabilities for planning and conducting
training in such areas as information technology, public finance,
office management, public administration, organization of
preservice programs, project accounting, procurement, and
secretarial practice.
2.   Research and consultancy services.  This includes the
development of staff capabilities in research methodology and
consultancy methods.
3.   Long-term plan.  Development of a long term plan for NIPA's
education and training activities and for the development of NIPA's
internal organization for implementation of those activities,
including the identification of long-range objectives, methods, and
training programs.
4.   Teacher support.  Provision of teacher support in courses for
skills development and management, including office management,
accountancy, economics, public administration and information
technology.
5.   Expansion of NIPA's Sana'a headquarters, and construction of
Ibb branch facilities.
                          *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                           SCHEDULE 3
              Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
Page  9
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guideline$).
Part  B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part  C:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Yemen Arab
Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part  D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local shopping:
     Contracts for equipment, furniture and vehicles estimated to
cost not more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of  $400,000, may be
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part  E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract for civil works and for
each contract for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A (1),
Page  10
A (2), A (3), A (4), B (1), B (2), B (3) and B (4), the Borrower
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                           SCHEDULE 4
                     Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to establish the
following selection criteria for the award of fellowships:
     (a)  with respect to fellowships to be awarded by MCSAR,
selection criteria shall include prior academic qualifications,
language proficiency and a minimum of one year of relevant
experience; and
     (b)  with respect to fellowships to be awarded by NIPA,
selection criteria shall include prior academic qualifications,
language proficiency and a minimum of two years of relevant
training experience.
2.   The Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to assign persons to
designated positions prior to receiving training under the Project
and shall require such persons to agree to complete a stipulated
number of years of service in such assignments prior to
commencement of training.
3.    The Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to assign at least
one duly qualified counterpart to each consultant under the
Project, such counterpart to provide full-time assistance and to
receive on-the-job training from such consultant under the Project.
4.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by September 30 of each year or such later date as the
          Association may agree, furnish to the Association for its
          concurrence, MCSAR's and NIPA's proposed annual work
          programs for the Project and proposed budgetary
          allocations for the carrying out of said programs during
          the following year; and
     (b)  by December 31 of each year or such later date as the
          Association may agree, ensure that annual budgetary
          allocations required for the carrying out of the said
          programs during the following year are made.
5.   The Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to carry out their
operations and conduct their affairs under the management of
qualified and experienced government officials assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers, including the establishment
and maintenance of project implementation teams to assist in
implementation of the Project.  MCSAR's and NIPA's project
implementation teams shall each include a project manager,
accountant, bilingual secretary and part-time engineer and
procurement specialist.
6.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause MCSAR and NIPA to
provide to the Association, by March 31 of each year, annual
progress reports on implementation of the Project, including a
review of fellowships and training, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association.  Promptly thereafter, NIPA, MCSAR,
the Central Planning Organization and the Association shall
exchange views thereon.
7.   The Borrower shall cause MCSAR to carry out a personnel
administration study under Part A (2) of the Project, by November
30, 1989, and following completion of such study, the Borrower
Page  11
shall exchange views with the Association on the findings and
recommendations thereof.  Thereafter, the Borrower shall cause
MCSAR to carry out, on the basis of such recommendations and
exchange of views, an action plan for modification of the
administration of the personnel system.
8.   The Borrower shall cause MCSAR to carry out, by December 31,
1989, an organization study of MCSAR under Part A (3) of the
Project and following completion of such organization study,   the
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on the findings
and recommendations thereof.  Thereafter, the Borrower shall cause
MCSAR to implement such recommendations, taking the Association's
comments thereon into account.
9.   The Borrower shall cause NIPA to furnish to the Association by
July 31, 1990, a long-term plan under Part B (3) of the Project for
NIPA's education and training activities and for the development of
NIPA's internal organization for implementation of those
activities.  Promptly upon completion of such long-term plan, NIPA,
MCSAR, the Central Planning Organization and the Association shall
exchange views thereon, and the Borrower shall thereafter cause
NIPA to implement a long-term plan agreed to among NIPA, MCSAR, the
Central Planning Organization and the Association.
10.  The Borrower shall cause NIPA to provide to the Association by
September 30, 1990, for its review and comments, a five-year work
program for NIPA's research and consultancy activities under Part
B (2) of the, Project.  Thereafter, the Borrower shall cause NIPA,
to implement such work program, taking into account the
Association's comments thereon.  The Borrower shall cause NIPA to
furnish to the Association, by December 31, 1995, a review of the
results of such work program.
                           SCHEDULE 5
                         Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3
and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule I to this
Agreement;
     (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)   the term Authorized Allocation n means an amount equiva-
lent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Page  12
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
               for deposits into the Special Account at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
               documents and other evidence required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
               payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
               Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
               the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown
               by said documents and other evidence to have been
               made out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
Page  13
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
