Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9341
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
(LOAN 1412T-SE AND 1413-SE)
FEBRUARY 8, 1991
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency       CFAF
At Appraisal - US$1 = CFAF 245
1978  -  226
1979  -  213
1980  -  211
1981  -  272
1982  -  329
1983  -  381
1984  -  437
1985  -  449
1986  -  346
1987  -  301
1988  -  298
1989  -  319
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAMH            Bureau de l'Architecture et des Monuments Historiques
DGT             Deligation Generale au Tourisme
DUH             Direction de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
EAPU            Economic Analysis and Planning Unit
HTC             Hotel Training Center
MOT             Ministere du Tourisme
MPC             Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation
MTPUT           Ministere  des Travaux Publics, de  l'Urbanisme et des
Transports
OPT             Office des Postes et Tklicommunications
SAPCO           Societe d'Am.nagement de la Petite Cote
SENELEC         Societe Senegalaise de Distribution d'Energie Electrique
SOFISEDIT       Socite Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de
l'Industrie et du Tourisme
SONEES          Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux dui Senegal
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO          United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC. 20.433
U.S A.
Olie of 01exoqCt.WaI~&
Operataois EvakaItUiN
February 8, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report - Senegal
Petite C8te Tourism Project
(Loans 1412T-SE and 1413-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report - Senegal Petite C8te Tcurism Projrct (Loans
1412T-SE and 1413-SE)", prepared by the Africa Regional Office.  No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
9>2>
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributioo and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
LOANS 1412T & 1413-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface              ...............................................                i
Basic Data Sheet                  ...................................     .  ..   iii
Evaluation Summary                      .      .      .     . ............ .        v
I.    INTRODUCTION                ........................................     1
II.    PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  ...                   2
Identification    ......................................                 2
Preparation .........           ................................         3
Appraisal   .......................................... .                 4
III.    THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS  .............              ...      9
Project Startup 1977/78 ......              .......................      9
Project Renegotiation 1979/80  .......................    11
Project Completion 1980-87  .....             .....................    14
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE              ...........................    18
V.    PROJECT REEVALUATION          ................................    18
VI.   ROLE OF THE BANK ....................................    20
VII.    CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .              ....................   21
ATTACHMENTS
1.    Comments from Ministry of Economy and Finance
2.    Comments from Ministry of Internal Affairs
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
PETITE _OTE TOURISM PROJECT
(LOANS 1412T & 1413-SE)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petite
C8te Tourism Project in Senegal, for which a Loan in the amount of
US$5.6 million and a third window loan of US$8.0 million were approved
on June 7, 1977.  The Loan Agreements were substantially amended on
May 12, 1980, as explained in the text. US$.3 million was cancelled
from Loan 1412T and US$.4 million was cancelled from Loan 1413-SE on
October 12, 1989. The loans were closed on June 30, 1987, two years
behind the amended schedule. They were fully disbursed and the last
disbursement took place on February 25, 1988.
2.       The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Sahel Department, Africa Regional Office. It is based
on  the  Staff  Appraisal  Report,  supervision  reports,  Bank
correspondence files, and interviews with staff associated with the
Project.
3.       The PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they
are attached (Attachments 1 and 2).



-iii -
SENEGAL
PET!! COMT TOU SiU PROJECT
(Go)n wa. L412        4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
se si Data Sheet
Kev Prolect Data
Appraisal            Amndedl              Actual or
ite_                                               Exmeatation          Expectation       Current Estimate
Total project coat (USE million) sJ                    17.4               17.4                  16.5
Cost over/unde.run (3)
IBMR Loae *smunt (USE eIII on)                         5.6                 5.6                  6.3
tURD third sindoe  (US1 million)                       6.9                 6.0                  7.6
Disbursed                                                                                    13.1
Cancl led10.
Repaid ca of 1/i1/96                                                                        (5.2) J
Outatonding as of 1/31/96                                                                   (6.7)
Dote pheylci compenent  completed ci0/36/6                              12/31/64              12/31/67
ProPortIo*. completed by above date (6)                IN                  1IN                  95.6  dJ
ProportIon of time overrun (S)                           --9
Economi rate of return (S)                              11                                     pars. 6.06)
Institutional performance                                                   -              usatisfactory
Cumulative Estimte  and Actual Olabureoments
item             FY73    FY79      FT"6     FMY3     FYM2      FT33    FY34    FY6O       FY36    FY37    FYB6
Appr.
Estimate          1.5      7.9    12.0      13.6
Actual            6.5      1.6      4.9      7.5      6.8       9.5     ll.4    .11.     U11.6    12.3    13.1
Actual as
3 of
estimate           U        28       41       35       61        79       70                67      9g        96
Other Prolect ODat
Itm                                        Oriolnel Plan              R  gelene       /            Actual
F!rst mention In fllre                                                                           6,1371?2
Negotiations                                       $1/76                                             37
Board approval of the Ioan                         11/70                                         04/26/7
Loan AgrsntwS date                                                                               6/7/7?
Effectiveness date                                                     91/63/76                 *,695/76
Closing Dotes                                   66/3/61               9"/"6/Is
eorroee Reewublic of Seme/al
Executing Ageele-             D616atien   mrale l- so Tourim
S ec4h dl'Am6nagsmst de Is Petite Clte (SAPCO)
Follow-on project             None
Fiscal year of 8orroeer       Janury 1 to  cember 11,
a/  Net of taxs.
/  US530,1C0 9  was cancelled from Loam 1412 and US3396,111M.93 s*  cancel led frm  Loan 1413 on
October 12, 196.
I  Total of US3S3.9 aillion differet frm amount dlbursd becuam of *xchan   adjustments.
V/   One project compoent remIne incomplete
S/   The project a*e  renegotlated In 1979-61



SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
(Loan Nos. 1412- and 1413 SE)
PROJECT COMPLET.ON REPORT
Eve uation Sunm-ary
Background
1.        By the early 1970s, Senegal had begun to realize the possibilities
for growth in the tourism sector.   However, tourism potential remained
largely untapped.  By 1975, the Governuent had taken a number of measures to
expand tourism, and as a result, development had been rapid but haphazard.
A coordinated effort was envisioned undar the Project to ntrengthen and
promote the sector and to develop an integra..ad tourist resort in the Petite
Cate.   The Project also included the restoration of Goree, an important
historic site (paras. 102, 105 and 106).
2.        On the basis of a feasibility study, a resort site was selected at
Sali Portugal. This component comprised the provision of infrastructure and
common facilities for a resort of about 2,500 beds on about 12 lots.  A
second phase was to be developed later but only after the first phase had
proven  the market.    An  implementing  organization  (SAPCO)  was  to be
established to develop and manage the site (paras. 2.03 and 2.04).
3.        The Project also included technical assistance to provide better
coordination and plar-ning in the tourism sector, to establish an Economic
Analysis and Planning Unit in the Government Tourist agency, and to help
prepare and implement a marketing program for the entire country (para.
2.12).
Obiectives
4.        The Project had two main objectives: (a) to develop an integrated
tourist resort as a guide to future development so as to reduce the cost of
providing infrastructure and avoid environmental deterioration which would
be inevitable if development was haphazard; and (b) to strengthen the
management of the tourism sector with appropriate technical assistance. An
additional objective was to develop Goree Island, which was of historic
importance as a tourist site (para. 2.17)
Results
5.        The original project concept was that SAPCO would build a pilot
hotel on the site which would attract promoters to build additional hotels.
This concept was changed in 1979/80 when the project was renegotiated to
reallocate the funds for the pilot hotel and other unused items, to provide



- vi -
lines of credit to developers wishing to build hotels on the site
(para. 3.16).
6.        Implementation of the project took several years  longer than
originally foreseen, because of indecisiveness on the part of the Government.
The infrastructure at Sali was completed and eight hotels were built,
providing about 1762 beds which is about 30% below the number originally
foreseen.   The Goree component was successfully completed except for the
renovation of an existing hotel which is still unfinished. The institutional
accomplishments were mixed; SAPCO was successfully established but
coordination and development of sector institutions was less than originally
expected (paras. 4.01 and 4.03).
Bank Performance
7.        Project supervision was thorough at the beginning of the project
but with the closure of the Bank's Tourism Department in 1980, responsibility
for the project was shifted to various Bank entities, which were not able to
provide the frequent and thorough coverage which the project needed
(para. 7.05).
Borrower Performance
8.        The performance of the Borrower was mixe4.  Ten years after loan
effectiveness, the development of the Sali resort was slow and the Gorse
Hotel  still  remains  incomplete.    SAPCO's  performance  was  generally
satisfactory (paras. 4.01 and 4.04).
Sustainability
9.        The Sali component appears to be profitable given the expansion
in the number of hotels over a several-year period, and the reasonable
occupancy rates achieved. From the Government's point of view as a revenue
earner,  Sali may  be  deemed  successful.    It  is unfortunate  that  the
restoration of the Goree Hotel is still unfinished (paras. 5.06-5.08).
Findinas and Lessons Learned
10.       Bank files on the project are incomplete, and steps should be taken
in the future to ensure that appropriate records are kept and that
supervision missions submit adequate reports on their discussions and
findings (para. 6.01).
11.       By withdrawing from lenAing to the tourism sector, the Bank lost
leverage with the Government's tourism agencies, and fell short in achieving
the institution building objectives of the project (para. 7.01).
12.       The practicability of the original and revised project concepts of
developing a resort as a means of attracting promoters and developers of
tourism hotels is questioned. Sali did not develop as envisioned. However,
the resort is attractive; it is considered profitable, a good revenue corner
from the point of view of taxes and it generated substantial employment
(paras. 7.02 and 7.03).



SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
(Loans Nos. 1412T and 1413 SE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Senegal has much to offer tourists and visitors.   Its tourism
assets include a pleasant climate for most of the year, particularly during
the European winter, attractive beaches on the Atlantic Ocean, monuments from
its colonial past, an interesting cultural life in Dakar, colorful national
parks and a rich folklore. It has an excellent international airport at the
capital city of Dakar, which is strategically located on the crossroads of
air routes service Europe, Africa, and the Americas.
1.02      By  the  early  1970s,  the  country  had  begun  to  realize  the
possibilities for growth in the tourism sector. However, tourism potential
remained largely untapped. Hotel capacity was c3ncentrated in the Dakar area
and to a lesser degree, in other urban centers.   Accommodations which
totalled about 1,400 beds consisted iaainly of small establishments catering
almost exclusively to business traffic. Between 1973-1975, in response to
vigorous Government policies to develop facilities for vacation tourism,
hotel capacity tripled. Two-thirds cf the additional capacity was in large
hotels in Dakar with the remaining in vacation villages on the Petite Cate
and Casamance Beach areas to the south.  Most of the hotels were of high
standard, and luxury establishments accounted for over half of the total
capacity.
1.03      The rapid growth in visitor arrivals during 1972-75 was reflected
in increased gross foreign exchange receipts which more than tripled during
the period.  Tourism had become Senegal's third largest source of foreign
exchange,  aftXr groundnuts and phosphates.   About 2,800 Senegalese were
employed in the hotel industry and a further 5,500 jobs were indirectly
attributed to the sector.   Tourism was considered one of the few modern
sectora in which Senegal, with few natural resources, could hope to expand
in the future. The Government had, however, only recently started to give
consideration to the potential benefits of tourism, and the 1973-77 Five Year
Plan, for the first time, accorded high priority to the development of this
sector. Manifestation of the new priority included:
(a)  active Government participation in financing hotel construction;
(b) the creation in 1971 of a special agency, the Delegation Genirale
au Tourisme (DGT) reporting directly to the Prime Minister, to be
responsible for planning, promotion and training in the sector; and
(c) restructuring of the Investment Code in 1972 to pro-ide a number
of incentives to investors.



1.04      As regards public investment in the sector, separate corporations
had been established for each of the four existing hotels and four hotel
projects in which the Government had an interest.  As tourism development
continued, however, the number of autonomous hotel companies had diluted
Government control of its investmen.  and permitted indiscriminate investment
whenever foreign funds were available. The Goiertment was now committed to
coordinate its existing tourism holdings in the framework of a proposed
general reorgenization of public sector investments. Also, it was planning
to establish a single hotel holding company which would allow effective
control and rational allocation of resources. The precise steps to be taken
to improve Government control of its existing tourism portfolio were to be
defined during preparation and appraisal of a proposed technical assistance
project for restructuring and strengthen .ig of the para-public sector.
1.05      As noted above, the Government had taken a number of measures to
expand tourism, and as a result, development had been rapid. However, this
grewth had been somewhat haphazard and the Government had committed itself
to strengthening management of the sector.  Under the proposed project, a
coordinated effort was envisioned to strengthen and promote the sector and
to develop an integrated tourist resort on the Petite Cote. This area was
selected because of its proximity to existing infrastruc.ure particularly to
Dakar Airport, and to its natural attractions.
1.06      The project also included the restoration of the sn-'. island of
Gorse in Dakar Harbor, which had become an important tourism attraction.
From the 17th century on, Goree was one of the hubs of the slave trade from
West Africa to the West Indies and the Americas.  In the 19th century, it
became the staging point for French colonization of Senegal.  It boasts a
number of architecturally interesting buildings, and had become an invaluable
historic landmark and a national cultural symbol.
1.07      The DGT, which oversaw the tourism sector, was responsible for the
overall execution of the project.  The Societe d'Amenagement et la Petite
Cote (SAPCO) was given primary responsibility for implementing the Petite
Cote works, while the Direction de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat (DUH) within
the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Urbanisme et des Transports (MTPUT),
was responsible for the restoration of Goree.  The Societe Senegalaise de
Distribution et Energie Electrique (SENELEC), Offi-e des Postes et
Telecommunications (OPT) and Societo Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du
Senegal (SONEES) were responsible for operating and maintaining the
electricity,   telecommunications,   and  water   and   sewerage   systems,
respectively.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND 4PPRAISAL
Identification
2.01      The tourism sector in Senegal was considered important enough by
the Bank to justify including a tourism expert on its economic mission to
the  country  in  late 1968.    However,  it  was  not  until 1971  that  a
reconna'.ssance mission was sent out to examine the sector in more detail.
This led to a project   3ntification mission early in 1973 to assess the
prospects of a tourism infrastructure project on the Petite Cote, about 80 km



-3-
south of Dakar.  A feasibility study wis then commissioned to identify a
specific site.
2.02      The feasibility study of the Pet'ce CZte was carried out by U.S.
consultants with financing from the Uni ed Nations Development Program
(UNDP); with the Bank as executing agency.   Regional  mAanagement  took
objection to the terms of reference proposed by the Bank's Tourism Department
as being too global in approach and without regard to whether any particular
item was timely and necessary. It was noted that the terms of reference were
"a continuing demonstration of the lack of experience in the Tourism
Department staff".    The region believed that there was no need, at this
early stage, for doing detailed engineering design on the infrastructure
elements such as water supply, power, telecommunications, etc.  What was
needed was the usual feasibility approach, conceptual design and cost
estimates, and anything further would be "a waste of time and certainly
money'. The terms of reference were subsequently revised.
2.03      The zonsultants recommended that tourism development be carried
out at a site along the beach near the village of Sali Portugal, about 4 km
north of the town of M'Bour. The physical characteristics of the site and
its proximity to M'Bour and existing infrastructure made it a logical first
phase for the long term development program of tl'e Petite Cote.   TIle
development plan proposed two hotel zones, of about 2,500 beds each, on
either side of the village of Sali Portugal.   The hotels were to be
constructed on a landscaped area where administration, commercial,
recreational and sports facilities would be located. An area was reserved
for extension of the village where some hotel employees were to live. The
project was to provide the infr%structure for the development of the first
hotel zone and for the village extension. The decision to develop the second
zone was to be taker. only after the development of the first zone had proved
the market.
Preparation
2.04      Ei a result of the feasibility study, a master plan for the Petite
Cate  was  :umpletei  in 1974.    It  identified  five  areas  suitable  for
internatio.al tourism development and proposed a land use plan on the basis
of which  the  project was  prepared.    In August 1974,  the  Government
established SAPCO, a mixed company (owned 90% by the Government and 10% by
the Societe Financilre Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et
du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) ), for the purpose of preparing and implementing
tourism projects on the Petite Cote.
2.05      The Sali land was to be made available by the Government to SAPCO
uncier a "convention g;n;rale".   The proclamation of a decree initiating
procedures for registration of the Sali Portugal land and signing of the
"convention gin;rale' with provisions satisfactory to the Bank were
conditions of effectiveness. The land was to be leased to SAPCO on a long
term basis. Thus SAPCO had the use of the land for developing and leasing
purposes under the project.
2.06      The proposed project included the restoration of the island of
Goree and its development as a tourist site. A study of the restoration was
sponsored by UNESCO in 1975.  The study identified a program of works to



-4-
preserve its buildings and enhance the island's unique atmosphere.   The
proposed project also included studies for the building of a museum of black
civilization, which the President of Senegal had asked the Bank to finance.
Appraisal
2.07      The project was appraised in November 1975 by a five/man team.
The Issues Paper was distributed on January 8, 1976; unfortunately there is
no copy in the files.  The Decision Meeting was held on January 20, 1976.
The main components of the project were accepted with the exception of
studies for the museum.  Due to uncertainty about the scope of the museum
and the failure of the Governrient to provide the promised preliminary
feasibility study, it was decided not to include the museum studies in the
project. Total project costs were estimated at US$18.0 millior, net of
taxes. A loan of US$14.3 million was recommended by the Tourism Department,
which would finance 100% of foreign costs and 25% of local costs.
2.08      The meeting agreed that the appraisal report should go into detail
on the social impact of the project and measures the Government would take
to ensure that this impact would be positive.  There were three areas of
immediate concern. The village of Sali Portugal with 300 to 400 inhabitants
would be extended and provided with site and setvice facilities under the
project, while the second village of 60 people would be mo%ed only if there
was a second stage project. A number of beach bungalows, mostly owned by
expatriates, would have to be moved. They had been built with the permission
of local authorities on the understanding that they would have to be removed
at the owne:'s expense if and when the Government needed the land. Lastly,
the project would occupy some agricultural land but this was expected to be
compensated for by provision of irrigation on about 20 ha.  The irrigated
land would be used to supply the reaort with fruit and vegetables and would
provide employment for some -f the villagers.
2.09      The mission identified four key issues in tne sector:  inadequate
planning capability in the DGT; lack of coordination and supervision by the
Government of its hotel investments; & tendency by the Government to approve
new tourism investments without adequate attention to their need and economic
merit; and a possible shortage of long-term capital in the sector.   The
Government had agreed to set up a working party to look into sector
coordination.   A Bank post-appraisal mission was  to visit  Senegal to
investigate this sector issue further and to make recotmendations to be
discussed with the Government before negotiations, so that a program of
sector coordination could be discussed at negotiations. The meeting agreed
to recomnend retroactive financing of up to US$300,000 so that final
engineering and design and some high priority infrastructure could be started
at Sa.i Partugal immediately.   It was also agreed that the project would
include technical assistance for tourism sector planning and coordination.
2.10      Regiona' management had two comments on the Decision Memorandum.
First, it suggested that the Bank should stay clear of the museum, even if
the Government did provide the Bank with the requested information, or
applied pressure to get it involved. Secondly, it opposed including part of
the local costs of the project in the proposed loan. Attempts were made by
the Bank to interest co-lenders in the projec- but with no success.  The
Government "was disappointed but resigned to the decision by the Bank not to



finance 252 of local costs", as at the time it was experiencing some economic
difficulties.
2.11      During the appraisal, the Bank staff became aware of restrictions
on charter flights to Senegal from France, which was probably the greatest
potential source of tourists. These restrictions were apparently agreed to
by Senegal in connection with its involvement in Air Afrique and UTA. The
SAR stated that the commercial success of the Sali Portugal Project would be
enhanced if tour operators from all originating countries could use charter
flights to bring tourists to Senegal. At the time, only charter flights from
Switzerland and Germany were allowed on a regular basis. At negotiations,
the government was asked to broaden the use of charter flights.
2.12      The post-appraisal mission of May 1976 was primarily for the
purpose of agreeing with the DGT and Ministries of Planning and Cooperation
(MPC), and Finance and Economic Affairs on a program for improving sectorial
coordination (para. 2.09).   In its analysis of the tourism sector, the
appraisal mission concluded that the weakness of the sector stemmed from:
(a) DGT's inadeque.te capacity to plan, carry out appraisals of tourism
projects and define sectorial policies;
(b) lack of coordination between DGT and SOFISEDIT, the main source
of long-term credit to hotels; and
(c)  proliferation of autonomous Government owned hotel companies.  The
mission discussed the creation of an Economic Analysis and Planning
Unit (EAPU) in DGT, the setting up of a working party on tourism
and an outline for reorganizing Government investment in the sector
with representatives oL DGT and the Ministries of Planning and
Finances.
2.13      About  15 months were needed  following appraisal to complete
preparation of the project and for the Government to meet the conditions of
negotiations which required it to take action on a large number of issues to
improve coordination in the sector. Also, specific legal steps had to be
taken to ensure that the Government owned land at Sali would be made
available on suitable terms and that the various infrastructure services
would be provided by the respective Government agencies involved. All this
required considerable effort on the part of both the Bank and ihe Government.
2.14      Negotiations were held in Washington early in March 1977.  The
Senegalese delegation consisted of nine officials who repiesented most of
the many agencies involved in the project. There is no record on files of
the negotiations, but judging by the invitation to negotiation and the SAR,
the following were the principal matters agreed on:
(a)  to  complete  registration  of  Sali  Portugal's  land  before
November 1, 1977, and to lease it to SAPCO before January 1, 1978;
(b) to prepare a critical path network of all project works before
April 1, 1978, and to review it every six months with the Bank;



-6-
(c) to suspend authorization of any hotel investment in sites on the
Petite Cate other than Sali Portugal until completion of the
accommodations buildup under the program, not to grant hotel
investors more favorable incentives than those granted to Sali
Portugal and to set lease rents for hotel sites elsewhere in
Senegal at levels comparable to those of Sali Portugal;
(d) to take steps to ensure that a minimum of 1,500 beds be in
operation by 1985;
(e) to use its best efforts to permit before June 30, 1980, air charter
traffic to Dakar to the extent needed by full scale operations at
Sali Portugal (para. 2.11); and
(f) not to grant incentives to any new hotel development which would
jeopardize the financial viability of the Sali component.
2.15      The Board approved two loans for the project total US$13.6 million
on April 26, 1977.  The first was a Bank loan for US$5.6 million and the
second was a "third window' loan for US$8.0 million. The loans financed the
foreign exchange cost of the project (US$12.3 million) as well as the
estimated interest during construction (US$1.3 million). Regional management
made an effort to persuade senior management to include the financing of some
local costs but the request was turned down. The loans included US$300,000
in retroactive financing to cover foreign costs of SAPCO's expatriate staff
after February 1, 1975, as well as of detailed pl'anning and engineering
studies and some preliminary infrastructure (e.g., a borehole and
landscaping) expected to be undertaken before signing.
2.16      The Loan Agreements were signed on June 7, 1977, but they did not
become effectivo until January 5, 1978, because of the time required by the
Government to meet some conditions, including:
(a) enactment of Sali Portugal's development plan;
(b) the transfer of the resort site to SAPCO;
(c) selection of suitable management for the pilot hotel and this
condition was later dropped when it became evident serious
discussions with a potential manager were underway;
(d) signing of inter-agency agreements;
(e) an increase in SAPCO's subscribed equity and the payout of the
first tranche;
(f) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between SAPCO and the
Government; and
(g) approval of a lease arrangement acceptable to the Bank for the
Sali site.
Conditions of disbursement were:



-7-
(11     Bank approval of a marketing program for the Government-
owned hotel on Goree and appointment of an architect in
charge of the Gorie works; and
(ii)     conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between OPT
and the Government for telephone service to the resort
site.
2.17      The project had two main objectives:
(a)  to develop an integrated touriFt resort as a guide to future
development, so as to reduce the cost of providing infrastructure
and avoid onvironmental deterioration which would be inevitable if
development was haphazard; and
(b)  to strengthen the management of the tourism sector with appropriate
technical assistance. An additional objective was to develop Goree
Island, which was of historic importance as a tourist site.
2.18      The project consisted of three major components:
(a)  infrastructure and common facilities for development of the first
hotel zone at Sali Portugal;
(b)  renovation of Goree Island; and
(c)  project administration, technical assistance and studies.
2.19      The Sali Portugal component included:
(a)  an access road linking the project site to the Dakar H'Bour
highway, plus secondary roads and streets in the project areas,
parking facilities and public street lighting;
(b)  a sewerage system to service the resort and the village extension,
consisting  of  a  collection  system,  pumping  station  and
stabilization ponds, as well as a stormwater drainage system;
(c)  a water supply network to pump water from two boreholes to the
resort and four villages nearby;
(d)  a power system linked to M'Bour to supply the resort and the
village of Sali Portugal, a standby power system to provide
emergency service;
(e)  a telecommunications system in the resort linked to the telephone
exchange in M'Bour;
(f)  extensive landscaping and reforestation;
(g)  a sanitary landfill for collecting and treating solid waste;
(h)  provision of common facilities including commercial, sports and
recreational   facilities   and   buildings   for   maintenance,



- 8 -
administration  (including  post  office,  police  and  first aid
services) and for the use of SAPCO staff and equipment;
(1) construction of a 250 bed, three-star category pilot hotel,
intended to demonstrate to the private sector the potential for
hotel development and to set architectural and design standards
for other hotels in the Petite Cote development;
(j) an irrigated area of 20 ha which will use the effluent of the
stabilization ponds to grow fruit and vegetables for the resort and
will provide employment for about 40 families; and
(k) a new 500 line telephone exchange at M'Bour.
2.20      The Goree component included:
(a) upgrading the street system and public aress;
(b)  rehabilitation of the harbor to accommodate 10 to 15 pleasure boats
fitted for deep sea fishing; and
(c) extension and renovation of the Government-owned Hotel Relais de
1*Espadon.
2.21      The technical assistance component included:
(a) project administration to cover the foreign exchange cost of
personnel, equipment and materials required for SAPCO's operations
during project implementationi; and to help SAPCO finance a campaign
for promotion of hotel investments;
(b) technical assistance to support DGT in establishment of the
proposed EAPU, including funds for four fellowships to allow
overseas training of counterpart staff; to help preparation and
implementation of a marketing program for the entire country,
including proposals for prumoting the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon;
and to design and develop appropriate training programs for the
Hotel Training Center (HTC) at Dakar, including nine fellowships
for overseas training of counterpart staff; and
(c)  consulting services to monitor the socio-economic impact of tourism
development on the Petite Cote and to prepare a Second Tourism
Project.
2.22      The project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.  This
date was subsequently revised to December 31, 1984 when the project was
amended (para. 3.20).



- 9 -
'11. THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
Prolect Startup 1977/78
3.01      Bank supervision missions visited Senegal in May, July, September,
and November 1977, to review progress made by SAPCO and the Government in
fulfilling the conditions of effectiveness and in implementing the project.
Satisfactory progress was noted in fulfilling these conditions, although some
delay in paying a quarter of SAPCO's equity (CFRF 87.5 million) was
anticipated "because of the Governme-t's tight fiscal situation"
3.02      The consulting firm, which had conducted the feasibility study of
the Sali component (para. 2.02), was selected to do the final design of the
resort site and mobilized early in 1977. Local contractors for landscaping
the Sali site and drilling a borehole had been selected.   Preliminary
drawings of the common facilities were submitted by SAPCO at the end of
September 1977. The design of the roads and the water and sewerage system
had been completed and by the end of November 1977, all bidding documents for
the infrastructure facilities were ready for review by SAPCO and the public
utility companies. The only problem to emerge was that OPT indicated that
it could not install the new telephone exchange at M'Bour until 1980. It
proposed to make a temporary connection to Thies where a cable already
existed to connect 70 to 80 new lines for the Sali site.
3.03      SAPCO had started to negotiate a contract for the management of
the common facilities at Sali with Club Mediterranee (Club Med) which was
already operating a beach village at Casamance.   SAPCO and Club Med's
technical staff had already held discussions on the program and layout of
the common facilities. Also, since February 1977, SAPCO had been discussing
the management of the -   t hotel with Club Med.  By September, the two
parties had reached an   -eement that:
(a) Club Med would finance a 600 bed village at Sali Portugal with its
own banks and perhaps IFC and would not ask for financing of the
pilot hotel from SAPCO;
(b) Club Med would be associatk I with the planning and management of
the common facilities, and since successful operations of the
comon facilities would require the operation of about 1,200 beds,
SAPCO would step up its investmen  promotion efforts. To increase
the interest of investors in tlh  Petite Cote, SAPCO started to
explore the possibility of using loan funds allocated for the
construction of the pilot hotel (US$4.0 million) instead of
subloans to promoters to assist in 'tnancing several hotel
projects.
3.04      Concerning the Goree component, the Government agreed to hire an
architect/renovator recommended by UNESCO for the positicn within DUH. He
was to be supervised by an expert from the French Monuments Historiques. In
the fall of 1977, the Government changed the arrangements for the Gorse
component. It would no longer be implemented by DUH, but by a new Bureau de
l'Architecture et des Monuments Historiques (BAMH) reporting directly to the
Minister of Public Works. The advantage of the new arrangement was that the
new unit would report directly to the Minister and devoted only to the Gor;e



- 10 -
renovation.   The disadvantage was that the new directorate had little
experience in project work.   On balance,  since the new work would be
supervised by UNESCO, the Bank agreed to the Government's proposal.
3.05      As regards the technical assistance component, the Bank had earlier
reviewed the proposed terms of reference for the EAPU which included the
services of three expatriate consultants an economist, a financial analyst
and a marketing specialist who would be ised for training counterparts.
Originally, the EAPU was to have included a plannerlarchitect but a marketing
specialist was substituted in order to combine the planning and marketing
function under the aegis of the EAPU. Three proposals were received by DGT
for this work, one was considered technically acceptable but DGT considered
it too costly, and proposed instead to hire individual oxperts. The Bank
concurred but urged the DGT to avoid further delays in setting up EAPU.
3.06      The loans were made effective on January 5, 1978, three months
after the date originally scheduled.  The Bank sent out three supervision
missions during 1978. As regards the Sali component, design of the Portugal
infrastructure facilities proceeded satisfactorily and SAPCO called for bids
in May for this work.   The final design and cost estimate of the common
facilities was 701 higher than originally estimated. The consultants were
requested to review the design, correct certain deficiencies and reduce
investment costs.
3.07      The Government presented  the May 1978 mission with a formal
proposal to reallocate the funds for the pilot hotel. It suggested that this
would enable SAPCO to provide equity participation in several hotel projects,
thereby stimulating hotel investments and expediting tourism development at
Sali.   SAPCO's investment promotion campaign in Europe has aroused the
interest of several well known groups.   SAPCO expected that by the end
of 1978, two companies would formAlly commit themselves of invest; both were
interested in SAPCO equity participation. At about this time, negotiations
with Club Med apparently were broken off. The supervision reports give no
explanation for this development although negotiations had proceeded to the
stage of discussing the terms of a contract. The files do indicate, however,
that Club Med linked any discussion of its proposed 600 bed vacation village
to its participation in the 'launching' of the resort, and in particular, in
the management of the common facilities.  In fact, Club Med made it clear
that it would go ahead with the village only if it could participate in the
planning and management of the common facilities.  Club Med also insisted
that about 1,200 beds should be in operation in Sali Portugal to make the
common facilities financially viable.
3.08      BAHR was preparing final design and bidding documents for the Gorse
component with the assistance of the UNESCO architect restorer. A contract
for the renovation of the Relais de l'Espadon, as well as upgrading of
Goree's public spaces and harbor, was to be awarded by the end of 1979.
Construction was expected to take about eight to ten months. The Bank and
DGT agreed that the selection of a management company to operate the hotel
was not urgent, in order to allow the latter to participate in designing the
physical facilities and in preparing specifications for hotel furniture and
equipment.



- 11 -
3.09      During project appraisal, it was proposed that the HTC in Dakar
would be financed under a credit for the Second Educhtion Project.
Construction of the center was expected to be completed and operations
started during 1979.   Since the UNDP was unable to finance the required
technical assistance as had been expected, the Government agreed that the
loan for the project should include 120 man-months of technical assistance
for training in the major departments of the HTC, as well as nine fellowships
for overseas training of counterpart staff.  Late in 1978, it was learned
that delays within the Government in resolving the problem of the architect's
contract for the HTC had continued for well over two years and that final
drawings would not be completed until mid-1979. Because of these delays and
other reasons, estimated construction costs had increased from US$1.0 million
at appraisal to almost US$3.0 million. Government was not able to finance
the overrun, nor could the Association. Furthermore, as training funds in
the education project credit were urgently needed for other works now
underway, the Education Department proposed to drop the HTC from its project
and had suggested that the government seek other external financing for the
HTC. Various options were considered as to how Senegal should proceed to
assure an adequate flow of trained hotel staff, but no further action on this
matter was ever taken under the project.
Prolect Renegotiation 1979180
3.10      According to the April 1979 supervision report, the Sali Portugal
component was progressing satisfactorily.   Most infrastructure was under
construction and construction of the common facilities was to start in the
fall after receipt of the ongoing call for bids. As regards the change in
the concept of hotel financing, the mission recommended that the Bank should
'begin the procedure to effect appropriate amendment to the Loan Agr- ment".
This amendment should also provide for the reallocation of:
(a) the funds for the construction of the new telephone exchange at
M'Bour which was no longer needed because of the establishment of
long line telephone connections serving Sali Portugal via the city
of Thies; and
(b) the funds earmarked for the preparation of a Second Tourism Project
and for technical assistance for hotel training which, due to the
cancellation of these subcomponents, would otherwise go unused.
These funds, which totalled approximately US$1.3 million, could
also be redirected to the financing of private hotels on the Petite
Cote.   As a result of SAPCO's extensive investment promotion
campaign, several hotel investors showed interest in developing
accommodations in the Sali Area. Thus far, two investors had made
firm commitments, each for the construction of a 100-room hotel.
Both investors were interested in obtaining equity and loan
financing from SAPCO.
3.11      As regards the Goree component,  progress was also considered
satisfactory. Architectural design for the Relais de l'Espadon was completed
and the engineering studies and bidding documents for all construction works
were expected to be finished later in the year.



- 12 -
3.12      Concerning technical assistance, EAPU had been established in the
DGT within its directorate of planning and studies. EAPU was in charge of
processing hotel investment projects and defining the country's tourism
development policies. It was also assisting DGT in selecting the management
company for the Relais de l'Espadon and in carrying out the study on tourism
marketing for the hotel.
3.13      In a Back-to-Office Report dated June 6, 1979, the supervision
mission elaborated on its earlier proposal to modify the Loan Agreement to
permit SAPCO to use the funds from the pilot hotel for several hotel projects
in Sali Portugal, as discussed in para. 3.10. Objections were raised by the
IDF Division to the arrangement proposed by the Tourism Department allowing
SAPCO to make loans, in addition to equity participation. It believed that
it was unlikely that the proposed advance on current account would be repaid
until all other loans had been totally repaid.   Either type of financing
(equity or loans) would "inevitably result in turning SAPCO into a financial
institution. This was opposed for the following reasons:
(a)  Senegal was  already  served  by  a  large  number  of  financial
institutions and there was no justification for creating a new
one;
(b)  as  a  financial  institution,  SAPCO's  project  appraisal  and
supervision  capabilities  would  have  to  be  substantially
strengthened; and
(c)  SAPCO would be competing directly with SOFISEDIT."
The September 1979 mission, the first from Urban Projects following the
abolition of the Bank's Tourism Department, was instructed to study the
issue. It included a representative of the IDF Division.
3.14      The  mission  reported  that  for  the  Sali  component,  major
infrastructure works were nearing completion and areas designated for hotel
construction should be ready early in 1980. For the common areas, bids had
been evaluated, but the mission requested SAPCO to eliminate from the bids
all decorations and furniture, leaving these elements to the discretion (and
cost) of individuals renting space.   For Goree, renovation bids would be
called shortly for the management of the hotel and bidding documents were
completed for the port works. Engineering studies and bidding documents for
all remaining civil works were being completed.
3.15      The mission noted that by letter of August 19, 1979, MPC had
requested that about US$4.8 million originally set aside for the construction
of a pilot hotel be used to participate in the financing of hotels
constructed by private investors on the Petite Cote. The mission recommended
that the Bank initiate procedures to amend the Loan Agreements.   It also
noted that the Minister of Tourism requested a reallocation in the use of
funds for technical assistance and studies to permit short term consultant
assignments.   These studies would be carried out by the EAPU.   These
remaining funds would be used to extend technical assistance to SAPCO and
strengthen SOFISEDIT to improve the financial appraisal of hotel projects.
In view of the above, the mission recommended that the amendment to the Loan
Agreement should also provide for the reallocation of funds, as noted in



- 13 -
para. 3.10, which could also be redirected to the financing of private hotels
on the Petite Cote.
3.16      The IDF Division representative on the mission pointed out that
SAPCO would never be in a position to repay the loans it obtained from the
Bank and the Government since moa. of its activities, land development and
promotion were .lot cash generating. Thus, the project could claim a positive
economic contribution for Senegal only if hotels were developed on the site.
He noted that it was essential to provide adequate incentives to hotel
promoters.  He concluded that the provision of equity and long-term loans
would be more attractive than the original pilot hotel provided for under the
project.   Any required assistance to SOFISEDIT would be included in the
Bank's proposed third line of credit to SOFISEDIT which was to be appraised
shortly.
3.17      Amendments to the project, plus some minor changes, were approved
by the Bank in January 1980 and renegotiated in Washington from January 25
to February 1. At negotiations, the DFC Division again raised the problem
of SAPCO taking equity participation in the hotel projects with loan funds.
The Senegalese claimed that SAPCO's shares would be bought back by the hotel
investors. But the DFC Division still believed that this was not feasible
and that it was "almost certain that the Government loan to SAPCO will have
to be converted into a grant further down the road". DFC noted that "the
patchup work done at the negotiations should ease somewhat the administration
of this complex project. Our division's contribution will remain marginal
but our responsibility will be essential in the proper appraisal of the hotel
subprojects since SOFISEDIT' role in the financing plan of these hotels will
be important, both under our regular lines of credit and this new facility".
3.18      The revised project was presented to the Board in a President's
Memorandum dated April 17, 1980, on a no objection basis.  The memorandum
noted that the modifications in the description of the project were "in
accordance with a request from the Government to reallocate US$3.5 million
originally intended for construction of a pilot hotel and to provide instead
long-term financing to private investors for hotel construction on the same
site'. Some 'minor changes in the project description were also agreed on
to reflect the present status of project implementation and changed
circumstances. None of the proposed modifications represented a departure
from the original objectives of the project ... on the contrary, they would
make it possible to fulfill the objectives faster and more efficiently. In
particular, the provision of long-term financing for hotel construction would
accelerate hotel development of the resort area at a time when infrastructure
works are nearing completion, preventing any drop in the project's overall
rate of return, which would otherwise result from delayed occupation of the
site".
3.19      Other relatively minor modifications were made to the project
description to reflect the status of project implementation at the time.
They consisted essentially of the following deletions:
(a) the construction, equipping and installation of a new telephone
and telex exchange at M'Bour because the Government had already
used its own resources to finance the extension of the existing
exchange;



- 14 -
(b) the construction of a sanitary landfill for treating refuse and
provision of collecting trucks and trailers since refuse was
collected by the Municipality of M'Bour; and
(c)  studies and the design of training courses and equipment for a
tourism center in Dakar since these components were being handled
under other arrangements.
3.20      The project description was accordingly amended.   Appropriate
adjustments made in the allocation of proceeds under the two Bank loans and
several provisions of the Loan Agreements were also amended.  The Project
Agreement between the Bank, SAPCO and OPC was cancelled. All of this was
reflected in a letter of amendment sent to the Borrower on May 12, 1980.
The original project completion date of June 30, 1980, was extended to
December 31, 1984.
Prolect Completion 1980-87
3.21      The renegotiations were completed just in time to assist the
promoter of the Palm Beach Hotel, the first hotel to be built at Sali, wh.ch
was running into financial problems. The hotel was designed to four star
standard with a capacity of 200 rooms, however, only 100 rooms were being
built in the first phase. A supervision mission reported that the promoter
was well experienced in the construction of hotels in Africa but "a firm
reading of his financial position was not possible: as there was uncertainty
over the promoters' effective contribution to the project". The hotel was
scheduled to be completed in time for the 1980/81 winter season.
3.22      According to a memorandum dated July 11, 1980, discussions in
Senegal by a Bank official indicated that the project faced "some severe
problems requiring the immediate attention of Bank staff". This included:
(a) dissatisfaction with the performance of the consultant supervising
the water and sewerage systems and lack of experience of the
contractor;
(b)  the  contractor  who  was  building  the  recreation  center  was
encountering financial difficulties;
(c) slow progress in resolving the financial difficulties of the Palm
Beach Hotel;
(d) the contract for the works at Goree included items that bore little
resemblance to the project description; and
(e) the arrangements for the renovation and management of the Relais
de l'Espadon were proceeding very slowly. The official concluded
that "it is imperative and urgent to undertake a full and thorough
supervision of the project  ... before the situation becomes
uncontrollable".   In regards to item (d), the Bank cabled the
Government that it would not approve the contract until it had been
examined by a forthcoming supervision mission.



- 15 -
3.23      A supervision mission was sent out in November 1980.  It reported
that all infrastructure work at Sali had been completed and work on the
common lacilities was under way.  The Palm Beach Hotel was expected to be
opened in December. An extension of 100 additional rooms was envisaged by
the promoter. Construction of two new hotels was expected to begin in 1981
although the mobilization of private funds could delay execution. Corrective
measures concerning landscaping had been taken and arrangements were
discussed for better maintenance of the grounds. The master plan for Sali
made provision for ten other hotel sites. As of October 31, 1980, possible
projects had been discussed with promoters for seven of these sites. A site
had also been reserved for Novotel which had agreed in principle, during
negotiations, to build a hotel in Dakar, and to also construct and manage a
hotel at Sali.
3.24      Agreement was reached on the financing arrangements for the Gor;e
renovation.   Club Med had been designated as manager of the Relais de
l'Espadon but no contract had been signed. The mission withheld approval of
the improvement works until remodelling costs of the hotel were available.
3.25      With regard to the technical assistance, the report noted that
EAPU was to be reorganized and strengthened and an expatriate technical
assistant was to be in charge of economic and financial analysis until
December 1981. The inputs for architecture, engineering and promotion would
be  provided  when  required  by  external  consultants.    EAPU  had  made
considerable  progress  in  statistical  work  which  was  essential  to
understanding the economic impact of the tourism sector and as a guide to
policy formation. However, it had only limited impact on the evaluation of
specific hotel subprojects. The Unit Chief, provided by LBI, was the only
full time expatriate technical advisor.  Assistance on financial analysis
had been intermittently provided by the advisor to SAPCO. Architecture and
planning assistance had been obtained on an ad hoc basis. No assistance had
yet been received for marketing research.  The counterpart positions were
fully manned with four competent but inexperienced staff covering economics,
financial analysis, architectureiplanning and market analysis.
3.26      As  far  as marketing was  concerned,  it was  agreed  that  the
counterpart should be transferred from DGT's Directorate of Studies and
Planning in which EAPU was located, to its Directorate of Promotion and
Tourism Service within the same ministry. Technical assistance for marketing
studies would be sought as soon as possible. This was all the more important
because the 1981 budget would include a 3% tourist tax, the yield on which
was to be devoted to market promotion programs. For the effective use of
such funds, informed analysis of market potential was essential.
3.27      The next supervision was in May 1981, and was sent out by the
Western Africa Urban Division.   At Sali, all remaining construction was
expected to be completed in December 1981. This work was expected to overrun
the cost estimate by US$750,000. As far as the hotels were concerned, the
ground had been cleared for the extension of the Palm Beach Hotel. It was
expected that construction of the Savana Komba (Bok Waar) Hotel would begin
before the end of 1981 and construction of two more hotels, for which
preliminary designs were complete, could also begin by early 1982.



- 16 -
3.28      Regarding the Goree component, previous difficulties concerning
the design of a package which would remain within the project budget of
CFAF 450 million, had been resolved. The mission approved the contract for
the renovation of the port and streets. Club Med's estimate of the cost to
renovate the hotel was almost double the budget and necessitated some
reduction in the scope of the work, which was agreed. A contract with Club
Med to manage the hotel was still under discussion (in July 1981, the
Government  decided to drop Club Med because of opposition from Gorse
inhabitants). Agreement was also reacned on the scope of the remaining tasks
to be done by EAPU, and works to be completed with the undisbursed amount
allocated for Goree.
3.29      The December 1981 mission found little change.  Approval of the
extension of the Palm Beach Hotel at Sali had been held up pending receipt
of additional information on financing.  The Goree renovation work to the
port and harbor had been completed but the scope of the renovation to the
hotel was still under discussion. The technical assistance work of EAPU was
gradually coming to an end.
3.30      By July 1982, the financing of the Novotel and Palm Beach extension
at Sali was in the process of approval. Preparation of the Savana Koumba
(Bok Waar) hotel scheme was nearing completion.   In December 1981, the
Government designated SOFITEL as manager of the Goree Hotel.  The mission
urged the Government to consider a phased program for renovating the hotel
which would respond to the counterpart funding restraint, but at the same
time provide better service to the majority of the visitors to Gorse
(74,000 annually).
3.31      The March 1983 mission found that the Palm Beach Hotel extension
had been completed and would begin operations in the fall.   A loan for
Novotel had been approved and documenta_s.ion for the Savana Koumba Hotel was
under review.   A contractor had been selected for the renovation of the
Relais de l'Espadon. By December 1983, four hotel operations, including a
second extension of the Palm Beach Hotel had besn funded under the project
(totalling about 1,000 beds) and three hotels were opened.  This committed
about two-thirds of the line of credit.  Financing for a fifth hotel was
under consideration. The renovation of the Gorie Hotel had been redefined,
resulting in an estimated financing gap of US$400,000.
3.32      In mid-1984, the Bank was informed that two additional hotel
projects at Sali would be submitted for financing under the line of credit
component.  Work on the Goree Hotel had been suspended pending resolution of
disagreements between the various parties involved. These matters had still
not been resolved by the time of the November 1984 mission.
3.33      By April 1985, there had been no further financial comnitments for
hotels at Sali, although a new hotel had been built without Bank financing.
The disagreements on the remodelling of the Relais de l'Espadon had been
resolved, but work was slow in getting under way.
3.34      In early 1987, a mission carried out a detailed review of progress
and costs to complete the Relais de l'Espadon. It concluded that the work
could not be finished by the latest Closing Date of June 30, 1987, and that
its cost under current design could not be recovered through the operation



- 17 -
of tio hctel.  The mission recommended that the CGovernment seek an operator
who wcald rent the hotel in its present condition.   It proposed that the
operator would redesign the project, finance its completion and subsequently
operate the hotel at his own risk. Funds remaining in the category would be
used to help finance the above arrangement.   In June 1987, a preliminary
agreement was signed between the Government and the Savana chain whereby the
latter undertook to rent the hotel, complete the remodelling works and
ope-tate it at its own risk. The Bank approved this arrangement.
3.35      The mission proposed that most of the remaining funds in the line
of credit for hotel construction be used to finance the recently completed
Savana Saly H.. rel,  a 100-room four star facility.   While  financing a
completed hotel was not usual practice, the mission concluded it made sense
in this case to use the remaining funds for this purpose. The mission noted,
that financially, the Savana Saly Hotel was only marginally viable. It was
"actually neither better nor worse than other similar hotel subprojects
already financed under ... the project, none of which had up to now (mid-
1987) proven profitable. However, Savana Saly is already constructed and is
in line with Senegal's policy in the tourism sector .*.." The mission also
recommended that US$450,000 of project funds be used to help cover expenses
of a donors' meeting to consider tourism projects.
3.36      According to the report of a consultant engaged to review the
project finances in late 1988, four of the hotels at Sali received subloans
under the project as shown below, along with the global cost of the fixed
assets of three hotels.
Subloans
Global    Disbursed   Not Disbursed
Cost
----------- in CFAF Million-----
Palm Beach                      3719            357
Novotel                         1635            160             -
Savana Koumba                   1442            225             20
Savana Saly                     n.a.             90             60
As indicated above, the amount of the subloans relative to the global costs
of the first three hotels was about 10% or less.
3.37      The Palm Beech, Novetel and Savana Koumba together had a total of
480 rooms.  Taking the globa, and fixed asset cost of these three hotels at
5,796 CIAF million, that gives a per room cost of about CFAF 12 million or
about US$43,000, assuming a rate of exchange of 276 CFAF to the US dollar,
the average rate of the 1980-83 prices during the period when the hotels were
1built. While perhaps on the high side, the cost per room is not considered
unreasonable for Sali.
3.38      Disbursements were oririnally to have been completed in 1981, but
when the project was renegotiated, the Closing Date was extended to
June 30, 1985. The Closing Date was extended twice more to June 30, 1987.
Disbursements were slow throughout the executing period because of the slow
progress of the work at Goree, and in finding promoters to build hotels at
Sali. Funds were held back for the renovation of the Goree Hotel but as this



- 18 -
work was not done, about US$0.7 million was left undisbursed and were
eventually cancelled. Project finances benefitted from the strong US dollar
in relation to the CFAF during much of the project period.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
4.01      The performance of the Borrower was mixed.  The Government moved
promptly to establish the basis of the projeet, provide the Sali site,
establish SAPCO and take action necessary to ensure a reasonably prompt
startup of the project. It was slow, however, in staffing the EAPU. After
the project was renegotiated, the Governmen; failed to act promptly on such
matters as the award of contracts for port/street renovation in Gorse, the
restoration of the Relais de l'Espadon, the easing of air charter
restrictions and the training of hotel staff.  It is not altogether clear
from the supervision reports why the Government was so indccisive on these
matters. What is clear is that ten years after Loan effectiveness, the
development of the Sali resort was very slow and the Gorie Hotel still
remains incomplete.
4.02      Most of the consulting work for the project was carried out by one
firm. The work was satisfactorily carried out for the most part; the one
instance where performance was less than satisfactory is noted in para. 3.06.
4.03      The Sali resort has expanded slower than anticipated but the site
is attractive and becoming increasingly popular with tourists. Only eight
hotels were built with a total of 1762 beds in the first hotel zone, or only
70% of the number originally estimated to make the project viable. It is not
known why 'several well known groups' (para. 3.07), which had showed interest
in Sali, did not follow up that interest
4.04      SAPCO's performance was  generally satisfactor'.    It promptly
engaged a consultant to design the infrastructure and common facilities and
oversee its execution. This work, for the most part, was well done. SAPCO
was less successful in attracting promoters and developers for the Sali site.
Nevertheless, in about a 10-year period, eight hotels were built at Sali.
SAPCO's progress reports were submitted on a regular basis, and it submitted
a final report early in 1987.
V. PROJECT REEVALUATION
5.A1      The 1987 supervision mission reported that the Sali component was
only marginally viable.   It is unclear whether this was  a result of
inadequacies in the concept and formulation of the project, or indicative of
other problems, such a3 cost overruns in building the hotels.  The original
plan of financing a pilot hotel under the project was to encourage other
developers to build, but that was abandoned because of concern that other
developers might not be attracted.  The project was then renegotiated to
provide lines of s;redit to hotel promoters. The project did not seem to have
attracted the big tour operators like Club Med, although it was interested
in participating at one stage.   Surprisingly, no specific explanation is
given in the files for the withdrawal of Club Med from participation in the
Sali resort.



- 19 -
5.02      One reason for Club Med's withdrawal may have been its wish to own
rather than lease the land on which it would build a hotel. Given the range
of policies and management styles of hotel and tour operators and types of
packages offered, it seems reasonable to question the viability of the
original project concept of attracting a variety of operators and promoters
to a resort site, complete with infrastructure and common facilities. It is
hardly surprising that they might have had reservations over the design, cost
and control of a resort site in which they were not involved or consulted.
In this respect, it would appear that the original project concept was not
fully viable.
5.03      In as much as large operators, such as Club Med, were willing to
finance their hotel facilities without calling for Government support
credits, it also seems reasonable to question the renegotiated project with
the line of credit concept to encourage the building of hotels.   The
Government's risk could have been reduced if it had left the design and
financing of the hotels to foreign investors, and instead concentrated on
providing the site and services, and the guidelines under i- h the resort
was to be managed and operated.
5.04      The Sali site eventually attracted a number of small operators
presumably because of the availability of credit.   The number of hotels
expanded from one in 1980 to eight in 1988, and the numbsr of guest nights
increased from 19,500 in 1980 to 132,400 in 1988.              This represents
an annual growth rate in guest nights of about 40S be,"v.an 1981 and 1987.
The occupancy rate of about 301 during the last full yea-. ;f operation (1987)
appears good for a resort which would mainly attract Euri peans during the
winter months.
5.05      Only  eight  of  the  ele'ven  hotel  lots  are  oecupied.    The
accommodation provided, as measured by the beds availab; -s about one-
third below the original target of 2,500 beds for the firsc xiotel zone. No
information is available as to what plans, if any, are be4 n, considered by
the Government to complete occupancy of the remaining lots IL the first zone
or to encourage development of the second hotel zone.
5.06      While the cost of the fixed asuets of three of the hotels is known
(para. 3.36), no information is available on their revenues or cost of
operation. Thus, it is not possible to assess the return on investment on
the Sali resort either from the point of view of the owners or the
Government.  However, given the fact that private enterprise with a small
amount of Government assistance built eight hotels at Sali in all, and the
occupancy rates appear reasonable for resort properties, these hotels may
have been somewhat more profitable than the 1987 supervision mission
concluded (para. 3.35). On balance, while the project did not achieve the
ERR estimated at appraisal (162), it is still believed to be satisfactory.
5.07      Indeed, the Sali component provided employment, brought visitors
and foreign exchange to Senegal and broadened the tourism tax base.   In
addition to the direct earnings of SAPCO, the Government received sales taxes
on the expenditures of tourists for accommodations, food and beverages, and
souvenirs; indirect taxes and duties on items purchased by the tourism
industry; as well as income taxes on firms and individuals engaged directly
in the tourism sector. Also, substantial employment was generated. On this



- 20 -
basis, the component is deemed successful. Whether it might have been more
successful under a different concept, making use of incentives, is a more
difficult question, given the present lack of data on the recent performance
of the Sali project and the tourism sector in Senegal.
5.08      The civil works at Goree were satisfactorily completed and resulted
in the preservation of an attractive landmark. However, as the Goree Hotel
is still unfinished, it is not possible to judge its success. It would seem
evident from the supervision reports that an opportunity for profitable
operation of the hotel was lost by long delays in executing the restoration
works and by their high costs. This is most unfortunate as C.oree has much
to offer visitors.
VI. ROLE OF THE BANK
6.01      Preparation, appraisal and early supervision of the project by the
Bank's Tourism Department was vigorously pursued, but not always in line with
Bank procedures.   The criticism of the department's lack of experience
(para. 2.02) was probably justified.   Bank's files are incomplete as the
issues paper is missing, no record is available of the first negotiations,
staff did not always write reports on their return from missions, and despite
active participation of Bank staff in the negotiations with Club Med, there
is no indication as to why they fell through.   However, what the Tourism
Department lacked in experience, it made up in drive and enthusiasm.
6.02      Tourism projects involve many more disciplines than most Bank
projects.   The Tourism Department  frequently called on other regional
departments (transport, power, agriculture, finance, etc. for assistance and
this seemed to have been willingly and ably given.   The Bank's resident
mission in Dakar was also most helpful in pursuing project matters with the
Government.   However, it should be recognized that the many disciplines
involved must have made it more difficult to properly supervise a tourism
project than say a road project involving mainly one discipline.
6.03      Given the unusually long period of 15 months from appraisal to
negotiations, it would appear that more preparatory work before appraisal
would have reduced the processing time somewhat and possibly permitted the
Bank Loans to become effective more quickly.   It should be recognized,
however, that as a first project in the sector, a large amount of preparatory
work was required and the early Bank appraisal probably encouraged the
Government to take the many steps needed to establish the basis of the
project.
6.04      Project execution started reasonably well but problems began to
appear when attempts were made to interest promoters and developers in the
Sali resort. This eventually led to a renegotiation of the Loans, but this
did not really resolve the problem of identifying and attracting established
hotel and tour operators.
6.05      It is difficult not to conclude that following the abolition of
the Bank's Tourism Department, project supervision began to suffer from
frequent changes in management at headquarters, high turnover of supervision
staff and much longer intervals between visits. The project was supervised
by four different Bank divisions involving approximately 12 staff members and



- 21 -
several consultants. The project dragged on for years for lack of Government
decisions concerning relatively simple matters such as the Goree port and
street works, and the renovation of the Relais de l'Espadon.   The same
applies to other project subcomponents that were held up by Government
inaction.   A more forceful attitude on the part of the Bank might have
persuaded the Government to promptly resolve these difficulties.   In some
cases, the Bank appeared too willing to approve changes in the project
requested by the Government, or to accept delays without registering strong
objections.
6.06      Undoubtedly, by withdrawing from the tourism sector, the Bank lost
some leverage with the Government's tourism agencies. It must also have been
evident to the staff that there was no future in the sector.
6.07      Recent supervision missions seem only to have focussed on the
uncompleted components rather than performance of the tourism sector as a
whole. Thus, there is little current statistical data available on which to
judge the overall performance of the project, development of sector
institutions and the benefits of the project to Senegal.
6.08      As noted in para. 2.02, the Bank acted as agent for the UNDP
financial feasibility study.  The UNDP press release announcing the study
noted that consultants interested in being considered for the study should
direct  enquiries  to  the  Bank.    Unfortunately,  by  the  time  of  the
announcement, firms had been shortlisted, the proposals evaluated and a
consultant selected. The announcement resulted in a flood of enquiries to
the Bank. In some cases, it provoked unnecessary irritation when respondents
learned that a consultant had already been selected prior to the
announcement.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      Project execution got off to a good start, but the decision of the
Bank to withdraw from further lending for tourism obviously had a serious
impact on subsequent progress. Following the closure of the Bank's Tourism
Department in 1980, the project was supervised by several Bank entities, none
of which was able to provide the frequent or thorough attention which the
project needed. Furthermore, by withdrawing from the financing of tourism
projects, the Bank lost the leverage it would have had with the Government's
tourism agencies by foreclosing the possibility of a follow-up project which
was to be prepared under the project.
7.02      As a result, the Government seemed to lose interest in completing
the project.  The Goree hotel has been gutted but little or no effort was
ever made to complete its renovation.   While the Sali component has not
worked out as originally envisioned at appraisal or at the time of the
renegotiations, the first phase (para. 2) has been substantially completed
and would appear to be profitable (para. 5.06).   Sali is an attractive
addition to the tourist facilities of Senegal; it is a good revenue producer
from the point of view of taxes collected, directly and indirectly; and it
generated   substantial   employment.      Undoubtedly,   Senegal's   tourism
institutions were strengthened by the project but perhaps not to the extent
expected.



- 22 -
7.03      The viability of the original and revised project concepts of
providing infrastructure and building common facilities on a multiple
occupancy resort site as a means of attracting promoters and developers of
tourist hotels,  is questioned.   The larger and well established tour
operators apparently prefer to own and operate their own facilities which
are designed specifically for their needs. It may have been more appropriate
for Senegal to have provided sites to well established promoters, assisted
them as needed with services and utilities, and established the guidelines
under which they were to be operated.



- 23 -
ATTACHMENT 1
Page 1 of 1 page
Translation (French)
DTB.mnd                                                No. 10443/MEF/DDI
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL                            Dakar, November 30, 1990
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
AND FINANCE                                   Office of The Minister
Direction of Expenses
and Investments
SUBJECT: Tourism Project of Petite Cote
(Loans 1412T-SE and 1413-SE)
Reference: Your Letter of November 6, 1990
Dear Sir:
I hereby acknowledge receipt of your referenced letter with
which you sent me the draft version of the above project completion
report.
The document was reviewed by the staff of my department as
well as ministries of Tourism and Ecology.
I will provide you with the comments of the government as
soon as possible.
Sincerely yours.
(Stamp)
For the Minister
of Economy, Finance and Planning
as directed
The Secretary
s/Antoine Sarr
ANTOINE SARR
World Bank
Operations Evaluation Department
ATTN: Mr. Graham Donaldson
1818 H. Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20433
USA



- 24 -
ATTACHMENT 2
Page 1 of I page
Translation (French)
TELEX
WORLD BANK
ATTN: MR. GRAHAM DONALDSON
DIVISION CHIEF
AGRICULTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE
AND HUMAN RESOURCES
WASHINGTON DC
SUBJECT: PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PLEASED TO INFORM YOU THAT WE HAVE RECEIVED THE ABOVE REPORT AND DO
NOT HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL COMMENTS. CONGRATULATIONS FOR A GOOD REPORT.
SINCERELY YOURS
FAMARA IBRAHIM SAGNA
MINISTRY OF INTERNAL AFFAIRS
DAKAR, SENEGAL
28DEC90
248423 WORLDBANK
61196 MINTCAB SG
END



