Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPPY                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP-1995a-SE
~ =
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED LOANS
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
April 12, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their official duties. IBs contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoul World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency tTnit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 - CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million - US$4,080
SYSTEM OF WEI(IHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                           US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               -     3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (i2)       -    10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)        -    35.29 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)          -     0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  -     0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)            -     2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGT                   D6l6gation Generale au Tourisme
DUR                   Direction de l'Urbanisme et de lHabitat
MDRR                  Ministere du Developpement Rural et de
1l'Hydraulique
OPT                   Office des Postes et Telecommunications
SAPCO                 Societe d'Amenagement de la Petite Cote
SENELEC               Societe Senegalaise de Distribution
d'Energie Electrique
SOFISEDIT             Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le
Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme
SONEES                Socigt6 Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux
du Senegal
Fiscal Year
Republic of Senegal: July 1 - June 30
SAPCO: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON PROPOSED LOANS TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
THE PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
Loans to the Republic of Senegal in the total amount of US$13.6 million
equivalent, to help finance the Petite Cote Tourism Project. A Loan of $5.6
million would have a term of 20 years including 4-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8.20 percent per annum. A second Loan of $8.0 million would be on
standard Third Window terms, with the first repayment date on January 15,
1983, and the final maturity date on January 15, 2001. The weighted average
grant element for the two loans would be 30.70 percent.
PART I: THE ECONOMY*
2.         A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series
of preparatory sector missions and a basic economic mission visited Senegal
to update the macroeconomic data base and to review the country's development
strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings of these missions,
whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic report now being
prepared. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African con-
tinent. In the interior, the mainstay of the economy is millet cultivation
and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and groundnut cultiva-
tion for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in rainfall
periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them
fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the.economy is concentrated in Dakar,
a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic base of
Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is turning
gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1975 was estimated at $370, but average in-
come in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the countryside.
* The entire text of this Section is reprinted from the President's Report
for the Dakar Fishing Port Project which was circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 7, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population, and per capita
GNP declined. Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with
independence, Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French
West Africa, and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative
and political circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade,
groundnut production fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export
prices. In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose to
8 percent during the period 1970-75. Until 1972, public investments stayed
at around 5.5 percent of GDP, but increased to 7 percent in 1975.
5.        While t'he 1970's saw a rise in the rate of investment, output
and incomes were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought
in over a century, which brought a decline in GDP in real terms.    After
1973, when weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural
population was restored, both agricultural and industrial production shot up.
The long-standing Government program to modernize rainfed agriculture proved
to be very successful in years with better rains. In 1975/76 the groundnut
crop reached a historical record of 1.45 million tons (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), followed by a crop of 1.2 million tons in
1976/77; manufacturing industry grew by about 11 percent per year between 1973
and 1975. Total production increased in real terms by 5 percent in 1974 and 7
percent in 1975, and continued at about the same rate in 1976.
6.        Strong price increases for Senegal's major exports helped to bring
about the economic recovery. The prices of both groundnuts and phosphates
quadrupled over the period 1969-74, providing strong incentives to production.
However, since prices of imported oil and food also increased at high rates,
the gains in real income from the rise in export prices were limited. More-
over, in 1975 international prices for Senegal's exports again began to fall,
almost offsetting the growth in real output.    These wide international price
fluctuations had serious consequences on domestic prices, public finance, and
balance of payments.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
7.        The Government responded with considerable flexibility in the
adoption of economic policies. In 1974, the Government initially tried to
maintain stable domestic prices in the face of the skyrocketing food import
prices. By end-1974, it became clear that the costs of this policy were
becoming excessive and that changes would need to be made, even though trans-
fers to the public sector resulting from improved groundnut production and
prices were much higher than in the preceding year. To reduce subsidies
and put public finances on a sounder footing, the Government raised the
prices for rice, sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. To compen-
sate for the rapid increase in basic food prices, Government salaries were
raised on average by 16 percent, with actual increases ranging from 60 per-
cent for the lower grades to 3 percent for the higher ones. Average consumer



- 3 -
prices rose by some 28 percent in six months' time, but the Government managed
to stabilize prices almost completely thereafter. At the time consumer prices
were raised, the Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to
bring them closer to world prices which were particularly high. The cost to
the Treasury of this latter step was expected to be compensated in large part
by additional revenues from the profitable phosphate mine in which the Govern-
ment increased its participation while levying an 80 percent tax on the excess
profits accruing from the price rise on the world market. In recent years,
Government revenues from phosphates have amounted to roughly $45 million a
year.
8.        These steps led to an increase in public savings from a yearly
average of US$27 million during fiscal years 1970 through 1973, to US$58
million during fiscal years 1974 through 1976. The higher level of public
savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating the Government to
increase its expenditure on new investments from a yearly average of US$25
million to US$59 million during the same two periods. In addition to the
rise in investment, purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
by the Government increased from an annual average of US$5 million to US$42
million, mainly because of the participation in the phosphate mine and the
acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined
capital outlays of the Government were thus substantially in excess of public
savings, and were financed in large part through foreign bank loans. As a
consequence, foteign debt service carried by the Central Government increased
from $8 million in FY73 to $28 million in fiscal year 1976, representing about
7 percent of Central Government revenues.
9.        The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves fell to minus US$32 million. In the following
years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but the outflows of
private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enterprises continued,
and net foreign reserves reached a level of minus US$66 million at the end of
1975. This was financed by US$30 million in IMF oil facilities, and the rest
by increasing indebtedness of the mostly foreign-owned commercial banks with
their parent companies. Senegal's membership in the West African Monetary
Union lessens the risks usually associated with such low foreign reserves.
10.       During 1976, the balance of payments remained under pressure.     The
state marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop from the farmers at
the favorable prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power
into the economy. Investments and economic activity are therefore likely to
continue their fast growth, and have substantially increased the demand for
imports. However, export revenues stagnated since groundnut prices were 45
percent below the 1974 peak, and phosphate prices were down by 40 percent.
Price declines of the same order of magnitude took place in some of Senegal's
food imports, but the net effect on the terms of trade was heavily negative.
11.       The drop in export prices also created a considerable problem for
public finance. The losses on groundnut transactions in the stabilization
fund were, to a large extent, compensated by gains on the domestic sales of



- 4 -
rice and sugar imports, but budgeted revenues from excess profits on phos-
phate operations did not materialize, rreating tinexpected deficits duiring
1976/77. Moreover, the decline of phosphate revenues diminished Government's
ability to cover its financial deficits on the Eurodollar market. In January
1977, the Government decided to adjust its fiscal policies. It postponed all
new current and capital expenditure programs, increased duties on imports
from the EEC, ancl is considering an increase in the sales tax. It also
abolished subsidiLes on wheat flour, and reduced fertilizer subsidies by
50 percent. The whole package should improve Government finances by $32
million on an annual basis which will, to a large extent, compensate for the
loss of phosphate revenues.   Finally, very recently there has been a recovery
of groundnut prices, which will eliminate the losses on groundnut transac-
tions in the stabilization fund, and one can conclude that the Government
has successfully restored a balance in its current operations.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
12.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based
on promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricultural
program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall fluctua-
tions (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than ground-
nuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the
arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This policy
will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its climate
and world market prices; but since the majority of the rural poor are involved
in groundnut farming, the Government is continuing its efforts to promote
animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer use, and crop rotation to raise the
productivity of farmers. The Government also aims at long-term improvement of
the balance of payments mainly through tripling of phosphate mining capacity,
promotion of local cereal production to reduce the heavy burden of food
imports, and development of light export industries and of tourism. The
Government is actively preparing projects in these fields, but because costs
are relatively high in mining and other export sectors, progress in developing
efficient investments may be slow, and a cautious view of the long-term
outlook is warranted. In particular, the expansion of phosphate mining is
uncertain owing to capacity increases in other parts of the world and falling
world market prices. With chances for export growth limited, and substitution
of locally produced cereals for imports critically dependent on very large
investments in irrigation, the trade deficit may stay high, even if the growth
objectives is cut back to well below 4.5 percent a year, as compared to an
official objective of 5.8 percent. Foreign capital aid and some commercial
loans are expected to be available up to a potential of $214 million a year
during the 1977/78-1980/81 Plan period in order to finance a widening gap in
the balance of payments.
13.       Because of its public finance and balance of payments situation,
Senegal needs a h:igh percentage of foreign aid in the financing of new proj-
ects. To replace the dwindling savings from the phosphate operation, the
Government raised indirect taxes and reduced subsidies, which is the most
it can be expected to do without excessive pressure on input costs and
consumer prices. Moreover, hardly any other source of finance is open to
the Government. As a member of a monetary union, Government borrowing
from the Central Bank is subject to a statutory ceiling which has almost



-5-
been reached, and access to private savings in Senegal and abroad is also
very limited. To avoid cutbacks in the investment program below a level
necessary to realize only modest economic growth, foreign donors should be
prepared to raise their share in financing investment from 75 percent to about
85 percent, which implies substantial financing of local costs in appropriate
cases.
14.       Senegal is considered eligible for Bank lending on Third Window
terms on the basis of the following criteria: (i) Per Capita Income: In
1975 Senegal's GNP per capita was US$370. (ii) Performance. The Government
has demonstrated its commitment to development by increasing public invest-
ments since 1970 by 19 percent per year in current prices. The development
strategy continues to be based on agricultural production and rural devel-
opment to which 27 percent of the new investment program is allocated. In
recent years, price policies have become more favorable to farmers who, as a
group, are the poorest segment of the population. (iii) Ability to Repay:
The Government has demonstrated its capacity to respond adequately to the
problems which this vulnerable economy is bound to encounter periodically, and
there are reasonable prospects for long-term diversification and growth. In
view of these factors and Senegal's access to short-term financing facilities
and membership in the West African Monetary Union which reduce the risks
associated with economic fluctuations, the country is creditworthy for addi-
tional Bank lending. However, lenders (including the Bank) should provide a
large part of their assistance on concessionary terms in order to avoid a
rapid build-up of debt service. Assuming the continuation of responsive and
sensible policies, public debt service is expected to increase from 7 percent
of export earnings in 1975 to roughly 11 percent in 1980, and to be kept
between 10 and 15 percent in the long run. (iv) Access to Alternative
Sources of Finance: Since prices of Senegal's major exports on the world
market fell dramatically, the country's ability to borrow from private banks
on the Eurocurrency market has been reduced considerably, while at the same
time it has no special access to new sources of concessionary finance.
Financing development therefore depends heavily on developing good projects
particularly in the production sectors, and attracting financing from the Bank
and other sources, in order to cover foreseeable needs for capital inflows at
concessionary terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
15.       The Bank Group has had 30 operations in Senegal to date.    Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$138.5 million, including eighteen IDA
credits, ten Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC opera-
tions, and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of February 28,
1977, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these
projects, apart from the railway Project, is progressing without exceptional
delays. The procurement for the Railway Project has been slow due to time-
consuming contract approval procedures, but most components have now been
received or ordered. Two agricultural credits (140-SE and 404-SE) provided
for technical assistance designed to facilitate reorganization of the Office
National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD), the national



- 6 -
marketing agency, but the programs did not achieve the anticipated results.
The Government took steps in early 1975 to strengthen ONCAD's management and
financial operations, but its overall performance has not improved.
16.       The Bank  Group's share in total disbursements to Senegal over
1976-81 will stay at around 15 percent, of which roughly 40 percent IDA.
The Bank Group's share in outstanding debt was 19 percent in 1975, and will
slowly start to surpass that level after 1981. The Bank Group's share in
public debt service is expected to increase from 2.7 percent in 1975 to about
8 percent in 1981, a rise which is mainly due to the increase in Bank loans
from 16 percent of Senegal's outstanding debt to the Bank Group in 1975 to
43 percent by 1981.
17.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under four
main headings. Priority is being given to rural development, including
development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region (e.g., the
ongoing River Polders project, and the proposed Debi Lampsar Irrigation
Development project), intensification of groundnut production and diver-
sification into new crops and new regions (e.g., the Sine Saloum, Terres
Neuves and Livestcck projects, and the Second Sedhiou project in Casamance);
as in the past, we would expect our agricultural lending over the next few
years to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have supported diver-
sification of the economy by lending to the growing industrial sector
through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Indus-
trie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance company established
with Bank Group assistance in 1974;    this diversification objective is
being further assisted by the second SOFISEDIT project approved by the Board
in September 1976, and by the proposed project for development of tourism
infrastructure on the Petite Cote presented in this report. Thirdly, we
have encouraged modernization and expansion of the country's infrastructure
through lending for highways, feeder roads, railways, and the Port of Dakar;
ve are pursuing this effort through a proposed project for extension of the
Dakar fishing port which we shall present for Board approval later in April
1977. Finally, Government has asked us to help re-orient and expand the
country's education system, and we are in the process of identifying a follow-
up operation to our Second Education Project.
PART III: THE TOURISM SECTOR
18.       Senegal's tourism assets include a pleasant climate for most of
the year, particularly during the European winter; attractive beaches on the
Atlantic Ocean south of the Cap Vert peninsula; well preserved monuments
from its colonial past at the town of St. Louis, as well as on the island of
Goree in Dakar harbor which from the 17th century was a center of slave
trade from West Africa to the Americas; an interesting cultural life in the
capital city of Dakar; colorful national parks; and a rich folklore. With
its excellent international airport at Dakar (recently modernized under a
Bank-financed project), and strategic location on the Europe-North Africa-
America air routes, the country has begun to realize the possibilities for
growth in the sector. Nevertheless, the multi-faceted tourism potential
remains largely untapped.



- 7 -
19.       Prior to 1973, hotel capacity was concentrated in the Dakar area and
other urban centers, and accommodation (totalling about 1,400 beds) consisted
chiefly of small establishments catering almost exclusively to business
traffic. Since then, however, in response to vigorous Government policies to
develop facilities for vacation tourism, hotel capacity tripled over 1973-75;
two-thirds of the additional capacity was in large hotels in Dakar, with the
remainder in vacation villages on the Petite Cote and Casamance beach areas to
the south. Most of the hotels are of high standard, and luxury establishments
account for over half of total capacity.
20.       About one-half of the new hotel capacity added since 1973 has
been financed by the Government, and the remainder about equally by local
and foreign private investors. Privately-owned hotels have been financed
by short- and medium-term loans which were readily available from local
commercial banks, and long-term credit from abroad. The supply of long- and
medium-term hotel credit is improving following the establishment in late
1974 of the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Indus-
trie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) with Bank Group support (Loan 987-SE, US$3
million). Larger hotel construction projects can also obtain long-term funds
locally from the newly established affiliate of Citibank (US) and from the
Banque Senegalo-Koweitienne, though on terms slightly less attractive than
those of SOFISEDIT. Additionally, following changes in the regulations of
the West African Central Bank in January 1976, medium-term funds for projects
in priority sectors (including tourism) are now available from local commer-
cial banks using the Central Bank's rediscounting facilities.
21.       Concurrent with the expansion and diversification of hotel capa-
city, visitor arrivals more than doubled and registered bed-nights almost
tripled over the period 1972-75. Almost three-quarters of total arrivals
(about 129,000 in 1975) come from Western European countries, and a large
proportion belong to higher-income segments of the population. W{hile an
increasing number of visitors are attracted by the country's climate, culture,
and wildlife, business still remains a major motivation for travel to Senegal.
Because of the continuing importance of business travel, traffic shows little
seasonal fluctuation.
22.       It is significant that tourist arrivals in Senegal increased
14% in 1975 compared with a 3% decrease worldwide. Arrivals are projected to
continue increasing by 6% annually, a forecast which is considered reasonable
in relation to past growth trends for world tourism (7% per year from 1965-75),
for tourism in all of Africa (11% per year from 1966-75), and in West Africa
(16% per year from 1972-75). Like most French-speaking countries in West
Africa, however, Senegal is a relatively high-priced destination which depends
largely on the French market (almost 40% of total arrivals); but at present
only charter flights from Switzerland and Germany are allowed on a regular
basis. In an attempt to diversify the tourist market and enhance price
competitiveness, the Government has agreed to follow as liberal a policy as
possible within the limitations of its existing international agreements on
air transport, so as to permit before June 30, 1980, air charter traffic
to Dakar to the extent needed by full-scale operations at the site of the
proposed project at Sali Portudal. (Section 4.06 of Loan Agreement).



- 8 -
23.       The rapid growth in visitor arrivals during 1972-75 is reflected
in increased gross foreign exchange receipts from tourism which more than
tripled over the period, reaching in 1975 CFAF 6 billion (US$26 million),
equivalent to about 6% of the country's foreign exchange earnings from
commodity exports in that year; present forecasts indicate that by 1980 this
proportion would increase to almost 10%. Tourism is now Senegal's third
source of foreign exchange, after groundnuts and phosphates. Net foreign
exchange revenues from tourism are estimated at about 60-65% of gross
receipts. About 2,800 Senegalese are employed directly in the hotel industry;
a further 5,500 jobs indirectly attributable to the tourism sector involve
the production and sale of handicrafts, as well as services in agriculture,
construction, and transport.
24.       Tourism is one of the few modern sectors in which a country like
Senegal with relatively few natural resources can hope to expand in the
future. The Government has however only recently started to give consider-
ation to the potential benefits of tourism, and the 1973-77 Five-Year Plan
for the first time accorded high priority to development of the sector.
Manifestations of this new priority included: (i) active Government parti-
cipation in financing hotel construction; (ii) the creation in 1971 of a
special agency, the Delegation Generale au Tourisme (DGT) reporting directly
to the Prime Minister, to be responsible for planning, promotion, and train-
ing in the sector; and (iii) restructuring of -he Investment Code in 1972
to provide a number of incentives which may be granted to investors in all
sectors (e.g. exemptions from customs duties and taxes), and special incen-
tives available to hotel investors in certain circumstances (e.g. exemptions
from income taxes up to eight years and from sales taxes up to five years;
use of Government land at no cost; power and water at preferential rates; and
Government participation in infrastructure financing). In practice, however,
incentives have been granted sparingly. While investors usually obtain
most forms of fiscal relief, no other incentive specific to private tourism
investment has ever been granted.
25.       Although primarily as a result of the above measures tourism
development has been rapid, the growth has been somewhat haphazard, and the
Government is now committed to strengthening managemen.t of the sector.
Under the proposed project, an Economic Analysis and Planning Unit will be
established within DGT to carry out in-depth analyses of projects for which
incentives are sought, and the Government will then limit its incentives to
those projects which have been recommended by the Unit as being economically,
financially, and technically viable. (Section 4.02 (e) of Loan Agreement).
The Government also plans to increase DGT's budget allocation for overseas
promotion, and the proposed project provides for preparation and implementa-
tion, in consultation with the Bank, of a marketing program designed to
consolidate Senegal's existing tourist markets and to develop new ones.
26.       Organization and supervision of hotel training is the responsibility
of DGT. Middle-level courses are provided at the Ecole Nationale de Formation
Hoteliere in Dakar which graduates about 100 students annually. This level of
output is inadequate to meet the staffing needs of newly constructed and



planned hotels, but improvement is expected following construction of the
hotel training center under the Bank's Second Education Project which would
provide additional middle-level training, as well as refresher courses and
seminars for management personnel. The proposed project includes provision
for the technical assistance required to design and develop appropriate
training programs.
27.       As regards public investment in the sector, separate corporations
had been established for each of the four existing hotels and four hotel
projects in which the Government has an interest. As tourism development
continues, however, the number of autonomous hotel companies has diluted
Government control of its investments and permitted indiscriminate investment
whenever foreign funds are available. The Government is now committed to
coordinate its existing tourism holdings in the framework of a proposed
general reorganization of public sector investments, and is planning to
establish a single hotel holding company which would allow effective control
and rational allocation of resources. The precise steps to be taken to
improve Government control of its existing tourism portfolio will be defined
during preparation and appraisal of a proposed technical assistance project
for restructuring and strengthening of the para-public sector.
28.       As far as the physical alternatives for tourism development in
Senegal are concerned, investors' interest is strongest in beach areas on
the Petite Cote and in Casamance, where lack of infrastructure has so far
limited activity. The Government now proposes to develop integrated tourist
resorts so as to reduce the costs of providing infrastructure, as well as to
avoid the environmental deterioration which would be inevitable if development
were haphazard. The Petite Cote is being given first priority primarily
because of its proximity to existing infrastructure, particularly the Dakar
Airport, and its natural attractiveness. A master plan for the Petite Cote
completed in 1974 identified five areas suitable for international tourism
development, and proposed a land-use plan on the basis of which the present
project has been prepared, and which can also serve as a master plan for
further development.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background
29.        In 1973, the Senegalese Government requested Bank assistance to help
finance infrastructure for the development of tourism on the Petite Cote;
in December 1974, the Sali Portudal area was selected as the site for a
first project. The related feasibility study was carried out by consultants
Louis Berger International with financing from the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (UNDP) and with the Bank as executing agency. In August 1975,
the Government established the Societe Nationale d'Amenagement de la Petite
Cote (SAPCO), a mixed company (owned 90% by the Government and 10% by



- 10 -
SOFISEDIT) for the purpose of preparing and implementing tourism projects
on the Petite Cote.
30.       The proposed project was appraised in November/December 1975.     Since
then, there have been extensive and continuing discussions with the Government
to reach agreement on several important issues (particularly finalization of
the land-use plan, land registration, draft agreements with agencies for the
construction and operation of the project's revenue earning infrastructure
components, and sector coordination). Once these issues were satisfactorily
resolved, negotiations for the proposed Loan were held in Washington in
March 1977 with a Senegalese delegation headed by Mr. Ousmane Seck, Ministry
of Planning and Cooperation. The Staff Project Report (No.1266a-SE) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary
is given in Annex III, and the project layout is shown in Maps IBRD 12033 and
12034R.
31.       The Petite Cote is a beach area dotted with picturesque fishing
villages stretching over 100 km south of Dakar. The major town is M'Bour, a
trading and fishing center of about 30,000 inhabitants, located about 80 km
from Dakar. The area enjoys a mild semi-tropical climate, with warm days and
cool nights during most of the year. The surf is mild, and swimming conditions
are generally excellent, although the water is relatively cool in the late
winter months. The coastal waters provide good opportunities for deep-sea
fishing.
32.       Two vacation villages already established in the Petite Cote
area have been successful and achieved high occupancy rates. The consultants'
study recommended that tourism development continue with a site along the
beach near the village of Sali Portudal, about 4 km north of M'Bour. The
physical characteristics of the site and its proximity to M'Bour and to
existing infrastructure make it a logical first phase for the long-term
development program of the Petite Cote. The development plan for the resort
proposes two hotel zones, of about 2,500 beds each, on either side of the
village of Sali Portudal. The hotels are centered in a landscaped area
where administration, commercial, recreational and sports facilities would
also be located. An area would be reserved for extension of the village
where some hotel employees would live. The proposed project will provide
infrastructure for development of the first hotel zone and for the village
extension. The dLecision to develop the second zone will be taken only
after development of the first zone has proved the market, and additional
financing has been obtained. Development of the entire Sali Portudal area
will be based on a land-use plan (plan d'amenagement) now being considered by
the Senegalese authorities; enactment of this plan is a condition of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Loan. (Section 6.01 (i) of Loan Agreement).
33.       The Sali land will be made available to the Government by SAPCO, and
then leased - except for the village site - to SAPCO under a "convention
generale", the terms and conditions of which have been discussed and agreed in
principle with the Bank. The promulgation of a decree initiating procedures
for registration of the Sali Portudal land, and signing of the "convention



- 11 -
generale" with provisions satisfactory to the Bank, are conditions of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Loan. (Section 6.01 (c) and (h) of Loan Agreement).
Once the land is registered, it will be leased to SAPCO under a long-term
lease; in the meantime, SAPCO will have the use of the land for project
construction and for making it available to developers of tourism investments
(Section 3.08 of Loan Agreement).
34.       An important tourist attraction for which improvements are
provided under the proposed project is the small island of Goree in Dakar
Bay which, since the 15th century, has been occupied successively by the
Portuguese, Dutch, English, and French, and was a center for slave trade to
the Americas. Goree has retained the atmosphere of an 18th century colonial
town, boasts a number of architecturally interesting buildings (including
slave houses), and has become both an invaluable historic landmark and a
cultural symbol. However, many of the buildings are deteriorating rapidly.
A study for the renovation of Goree, sponsored by Unesco in 1975, identified
a program of works to preserve the buildings and enhance the island's unique
atmosphere. The proposed project component will contribute to the Govern-
ment's ongoing program for preservation of Goree Island and its development
as a tourist site.
Project Description
35.       The proposed project consists of three major components:     (i) in-
frastructure and common facilities for development of the first hotel zone
at Sali Portudal, including construction of a 250 bed pilot hotel, and a new
telephone exchange at M'Bour; (ii) renovation on Goree Island; and (iii) funds
for project administration, technical assistance, and studies.
36.       The Sali Portudal component includes:
-   an access road linking the project site to the Dakar-
M'Bour highway, plus secondary roads and streets in
the project area, parking facilities, and public
street lighting;
-   a sewerage system to serve the resort and the village
extension, consisting of a collection system, pumping
station and stabilization ponds, as well as a stormwater
drainage system;
-   a water supply network to pump water from two bore-
holes to the resort and four villages nearby;
-   a power system linked to M'Bour to supply the resort and
the village of Sali Portudal. A standby power system
will provide emergency service;
-   a telecommunications system in the resort linked to the
telephone exchange in M'Bour;
-   extensive landscaping and reforestation;



- 12 -
a sanitary landfill for collecting and treating solid waste;
provision of common facilities including commercial, sports,
and recreational facilities, and buildings for maintenance,
administration (including post office, police, and first aid
services), and for the use of SAPCO staff and equipment;
construction of a 250-bed, three-star category pilot hotel,
intended to demonstrate to the private sector the potential
for hotel development, and to set architectural and design
standards for other hotels in the Petite Cote development.
an irrigated area of 20 ha which will use the
effluent of the stabilization ponds to grow fruit and
vegetables for the resort, and will provide employment
for about 40 families;
a new 500-line telephone exchange at M'Bour.
The Goree component includes:
-   upgrading the street system and public areas;
-   rehabilitation of the harbor to accommodate 10-15
pleasure boats fitted for deep-sea fishing;
-   extension and renovation of the Government-owned
Hotel R(elais de L'Espadon.
The proposed Loans also provide funds for:
-   project: administration, to cover the foreign exchange
cost of' personne]L, equipment, and materials required for
SAPCO's operations during project implementation; and
to help SAPCO finance a campaign for promotion of hotel
investments;
-   technical assistance to support DGT in establishment
of the proposed Economic Analysis and Planning Unit,
including funds for four fellowships to allow overseas
trainirLg of counterpart staff; to help prepare and
implement a marketing program for the entire country,
including proposals for promoting the Hotel Relais de
l'Espadon; and to design and develop appropriate training
programis for the Hotel/Tourism Training Center at Dakar,
including nine fellowships for overseas training of
counterpart staff.
-   consulting services to monitor the socio-economic impact
of tourism development on the Petite Cote, and to prepare
a second tourism project.



- 13 -
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
37.       The total estimated cost of the project (net of taxes and duties
and including contingencies) is US$17.3 million equivalent; foreign exchange
costs are estimated at US$12.3 million (about 71%).   Cost estimates are
summarized below:
-------US$ Million---------      % of Total
Local     Foreign     Total      Expenditure
Sali Portudal
Infrastructure                1,213.2    3,611.3    4,824.5       27.8
Common Facilities               420.0      845.9    1,265.9        7.2
Pilot Hotel                     893.3    1,902.9    2,796.2       16.2
Irrigated Area                   40.0      110.8      150.8        0.9
M'Bour Telephone Exchange         101.8      238.0      339.8        2.1
Goree Renovation                  586.8      933.0    1,519.8        8.7
Project Administration            206.9      297.5      504.4        2.9
Technical Assistance & Studies    163.3    1,160.0    1,323.3        7.6
Base Line Cost                3,625.3    9,099.4   12,724.7       72.3
Contingencies
Physical                        314.2      692.6    1,005.8        5.8
Prices                        1,088.2    2,536.5    3,624.7       20.9
1,401.4    3,229.1    4,630.5        26.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST              5,026.7   12,328.5   17,355.2      100.0
38.       The above costs are derived from consultants' estimates (adjusted
to account for price changes since June 1975) and revised by the appraisal
mission. Physical contingencies averaging 10% have been allowed for civil
works and equipment in Sali Portudal, since most of the cost estimates are
based on advanced engineering; physical contingencies for the Goree works
have been assumed at 15% since it is more difficult to give precise estimates
for renovation. Price contingencies have been applied at an average of
12-13% annually for civil works, and 8-9% annually for equipment. Costs
for consulting and technical assistance services totalling about 50 man-years
have been estimated at an average of approximately US$5,500 per man-month.
39.       The proposed Loans will finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project (US$12.3 million) as well as estimated interest during construction
(US$1.3 million); provision for the latter has been included because SAPCO



- 14 -
mill not begin earning substantial revenues until about three years after
completion of the infrastructure works. The Loans also include up to
US$300,000 in retroactive financing to cover foreign costs of SAPCO's ex-
patriate staff after February 1, 1976, as well as of detailed planning and
engineering studies and some preliminary infrastructure (e.g. a borehole and
landscaping) expected to be undertaken before signing. The estimated foreign
exchange costs required to continue the above works and services until the
expected date of Loan effectiveness (October 1977) will be financed by an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility of up to $300,000.     The Govern-
ment will finance all local costs.
40.       The Loans will be made to the Senegalese Government.     Funds ear-
marked for the Sali Portudal infrastructure, (except for the water and
sewerage component, para 53), common facilities, pilot hotel, and project
administration (US$8.2 million) will be re-lent to SAPCO on the same terms as
the conventional Bank Loan under a subsidiary Loan Agreement between SAPCO
and the Government satisfactory to the Bank; the Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk.    Signing of this agreement, the provisions of which
have been discussed and agreed with the Bank, will be a condition of Loan
effectiveness (Sections 3.02 and 6.01(b) of Loan Agreement). The remainder of
SAPCO's financing will be provided by an equity contribution of CFAF 350
million and a complementary subordinated Government loan of CFAF 600 million.
A condition of Loan effectiveness is the increase of SAPCO's subscribed
equity by CFAF 350 million, and the paying in of the first installment
of CFAF 87.5 million. (Section 6.01(e) of Loan Agreement.) Further install-
ments will be paid in successive years according to an agreed time-table.
41.       Since the investment in replacement of the M'Bour telephone exchange
will upgrade the national netowrk and benefit the M'Bour region in general,
the financial responsibility for this component of the project rests with the
Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT). Funds needed for the proposed
works (US$0.3 million) will be re-lent to OPT on the same terms as the con-
ventional Bank Loan, under a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and OPT satisfactory to the Bank; conclusion of the agreement, the provisions
of which have been discussed and agreed with the Bank, will be a condition of
disbursement of fundls for this project component.   (Paragraph 4(iv) of Schedule
1 to the Loan Agreement). OPT will finance the related local costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       Major civil works and equipment contracts will be awarded follow-
ing international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. In order to encourage such competitive bidding, project items
will be grouped to the extent possible. In order to permit smaller local
contractors to tender for work of a size within their capacity and at the
same time to attract foreign bidders, civil works contracts will be tendered
either individually or combined into bidding groups at the bidder's option.
In evaluating international bids for purchasing equipment and some building
materials, Senegalese manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of
15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports, or the prevailing level of
customs duties, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts up to US$200,000
equivalent, and equ.ipment and materials contracts up to US$50,000 equivalent,



- 15 -
will be advertised locally and awarded in accordance with procedures for
competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$1
million (Section 2.03 of Loan Agreement, Schedule 4 to Loan Agreement, and
Section 2.03 of Project Agreement). All consultants and technical assistance
experts will be employed in agreement with, and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. (Section 3.06 of Loan Agreement and Section 2.02 of
Project Agreement).
43.       The proposed Loans will be disbursed pari passu in a 6:4 ratio,
and will meet the following costs: (i) 65% of total expenditures (net of
taxes) for civil works; (ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of
the ex-factory cost of locally produced goods procured through international
competitive bidding, and 75% of the cost of other locally procured items;
(iii) 100% of foreign costs of consulting and technical assistance services;
and (iv) 100% of interest during construction payable on each Loan.
Project Implementation
Sali Portudal
44.       SAPCO will have primary responsibility for implementing the Sali
Portudal works. SAPCO is a corporation subject to commercial law, and it
enjoys the flexibility needed for timely completion of the project. All
infrastructure and building works will be carried out by contractors. SAPCO
will conduct the detailed planning studies, supervise final engineering,
and coordinate the implementation of all construction work in Sali Portudal.
In particular, SAPCO will implement the water component on behalf of the
Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Hydraulique (MDRH), and the sewerage
component on behalf of the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Urbanisme,
et des Transports; the conditions under which SAPCO will implement the water/
sewerage component on behalf of the Government will be spelled out in the
convention generale. SAPCO will employ engineering consultants and architects
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
to prepare the final design and supervise the work at Sali Portudal (Section
2.02 of Project Agreement). SAPCO has agreed to prepare a critical path
network of all project works by April 1, 1978, and to review this network
every six months in consultation and agreement with the Bank (Section 2.09 of
Project Agreement).
45.       For design and construction of the water and sewerage systems,
SAPCO will be assisted by the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux
du Senegal (SONEES); for electric power by the Societe Senegalaise d'Electri-
cite (SENELEC); for telecommunications systems by OPT; and for irrigation by
MDRH. Drafts of agreements between SAPCO and each of the above agencies
defining the latter's respective financial and technical responsibilities have
been discussed and agreed in principle with the Bank. A condition of Loan
effectiveness will be the signing of these agreements with provisions satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 6.01(d) of Loan Agreement). Once the above
facilities are implemented, the ownership and responsibility for operation and
maintenance of the electricity and telecommunications components will be
transferred at no cost to SENELEC and OPT respectively; SONEES will run the



- 16 -
water and sewerage systems which will be the property of the Government
(para. 53). These agencies are all adequately organized and managed to carry
out their tasks. SAPCO's management of the irrigated area will be supervised
by MDRH.
46.       On completion of the Sali Portudal development, the land and common
facilities will be leased by SAPCO to private investors at market prices
(see para. 53). Leases will be subject to regulations (cahier des charges)
reflecting provisions of the development plan regarding architectural and
landscaping norms, and spelling out investors' obligations on service and
maintenance standards (Section 3.03 of Project Agreement). Approval by SAPCO
of regulations incorporating these provisions is a condition of Loan effecti-
veness (Section 6.01(f) of   Loan Agreement). The question of management of the
pilot hotel has been discussed with the Government, and several alternatives
are possible. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loans is the
selection of suitable management on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 6.01(g) of Loan Agreement).
47.       SAPCO's responsibilities wi:Ll evolve over the period of project
implementation. During the initial years, its functions will be primarily
those of a builder; on completion of the infrastructure, its commercial
functions will become predominant, and its staffing pattern will be modified
to reflect this shift in emphasis. SAPCO's Technical Department, will be
responsible for implementation of project works, and for the operation and
maintenance of common facilities and of components which will not be turned
over to the utility companies. The Technical Department is headed by an
experienced engineer assisted by an architect advisor, both of whom have been
appointed in consultation and agreement with the Bank. SAPCO's Commercial
Department would gradually assume wider responsibilities in promoting and
administering the leasing of hotel sites and common faciilities. The Director
of the Commercial Department is the former team leader of the UNDP-financed
feasibility study wIo was selected for this post in agreement with the Bank.
All the senior staf:E of SAPCO are considered to have the qualifications and
experience necessary to assure efficient implementation of the proposed
project.  The Government and SAPCO have agreed to consult with the Bank on
any proposals to replace SAPCO's President, to change its organization, or to
fill its top-level positions should they become vacant (Section 4.11 of
Loan Agreement and Section 3.01 (b) of Project Agreement).
Other Project Components
48.       Implementation of project items outside Sali Portudal will be the
responsibility of separate agencies as follows:    (i) construction, operation,
and maintenance of the M'Bour telephone exchange will be undertaken by OPT.
(ii) the Goree works will be executed by the Direction de l'Urbanisme et de
1'Habitat (DUH) within the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Urbanisme, et
des Transports.   DUE will establish a special unit to supervise the final
studies, issue tender documents, evaluate bids, and supervise imnlementation



- 17 -
of the works. A condition of disbursing Loan funds earmarked for the Goree
renovation is the appointment to this special unit of an architect acceptable
to the Bank. A condition of disbursement of funds for work on the Hotel
Relais de l'Espadon is Bank approval of a marketing program for the hotel
which will be prepared by DGT under the present project as part of a larger
program for the entire country (Paragraph 4(ii) and (iii) of Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement). (iii) Technical assistance and studies financed under the
project (except for the investment promotion study to be carried out by SAPCO)
will be the responsibility of the Delegation Generale au Tourisme which will
employ the necessary expert staff acceptable to and in consultation with the
Bank.
49.       The entire project will take about three years to implement. Final
design for the infrastructure, common facilities, and the pilot hotel will be
completed by December 1977. Construction is planned to start by March 1978
and be completed by June 1980.
Market Prospects for Sali Portudal Development
50.       Under the planned construction schedule, the first hotel beds
will come into operation in 1978/79, and it is hoped that the full complement of
2,500 beds will be available by 1983. There is strong investor interest in
the area, and SAPCO has already received requests from both local and foreign
hotel promoters. The project is expected to be attractive to investors who
will be provided with long-term leases at reasonable terms, and who can count
on efficient utilities and on the availability of common facilities. In order
to help ensure an adequate supply of long-term loan funds, the Government has
agreed to make available the necessary complementary debt financing should
funds for hotel credit from SOFISEDIT and other national and foreign institu-
tions fall short of requirements. (Section 4.05 of Loan Agreement). The
"convention generale" will spell out the incentives guaranteed to investors in
Sali Portudal. In order to ensure that the development remains attractive
vis-a-vis other tourism areas in the country, the Government has agreed (a) to
suspend authorizations of new hotel investments on the Petite Cote outside of
Sali Portudal until the planned accommodation build-up under the proposed
project is completed; (b) not to grant hotel investors elsewhere in Senegal
more favorable incentives than those included in the "convention generale";
and (c) to set lease rents for hotel sites elsewhere in the country at levels
comparable to those in Sali Portudal. (Sections 4.02(e) and 4.13 of Loan
Agreement).
51.       To guarantee completion of the Sali Portudal development after
the infrastructure investment has been made, the Government has provided
assurances that it will take appropriate measures to ensure that sufficient
hotel beds will be in operation by 1985 to attain an acceptable rate of
return on infrastructure outlays, unless the Bank and the Government agree
otherwise because of inadequacy of the potential market. (Section 4.07 of
Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Envirormental Impact
52.       Development of the resort has been designed to avoid environmental
deterioration. The natural features of the site will be protected by conditions
in the development plan which impose limits on the density and height of
buildings. The proposed reforestation of wide areas around the site will
enhance the existing landscape and protect the hotel sites from prevailing
winds. The resort area will be supplied with all infrastructure (e.g. sewage
collection and treatment system, solid waste collection and disposal) required
to avoid detrimental effects of large numbers of people on the environment.
Financial Justification
53.       As the developer of the proposed tourist facilities at Sali Portudal,
SAPCO will be financially responsible for the investments there except for
water supply and sewerage systems which will be the responsibility of the
Government.  The water and sewerage component    will yield a financial rate of
return of at least 9% starting in FY 84; the return reflects the fact that the
hotels subsidize use by the villagers who account for about 35% of total
consumption. The Government has agreed that the operating agency Societe
Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal (SONEES) will set water and
sewerage charges at levels which will allow it to earn a return of 8% on
net water and sewerage project assets in operation starting in FY86 (Section
4.14 of Loan Agreement). The extensions to the power supply and. telecommuni-
cations systems will be transfered at no cost to the respective utility
companies for operation, and SAPCO wil recoup investment costs of these
components by incorporating such costs in the charges for leasing land.
SAPCO will prepare and discuss with the Bank by December 31, 1978 the method-
ology for calculating leases and service charges (Section 4.03(a) of     Project
Agreement).   For analytical purposes, land leases are assumed at CFAF 40,000 or
US$163 per bed per year, and the service charge at CFAF 250 or US$1.0 per
bednight; these rates are comparable to those prevailing in competing desti-
nations.
54.       SAPCO's financial objectives will be to recover its investment
costs in infrastructure and common facilities, to earn a satisfactory rate
of return on its investments, and to maintain adequate debt service coverage.
The Government has agreed that, from FY 86, SAPCO will earn a rate of return
on properly valued net assets in operation of not less than 8% in order to
have sufficient debt service and interest coverages. (Section 4.03(b) of
Project Agreement) . In fact, income projections show that these objectives
would be achieved by 1983 when the project would be fully operational, at
which time the return on net assets would be about 11%. Projected balance
sheets show a satisfactory position in 1985 when it will be possible to start
reimbursing the complementary Government loan (para. 40). The Government has
agreed that SAPCO will not pay dividends if such payment would reduce its
working capital to less than 1.5 times its debt due the following year (Section
4.04(a) of Project Agreement). SAPCO has provided assurances that, in order
to preserve a good financial position, it will not incur further debt without



- 19 -
Bank approval unless its current revenues are sufficient to cover future debt
service at least 1.5 times. (Section 4.04(a) of Project Agreement).
55.       A detailed financial analysis was carried out for the pilot hotel
whose operations are expected to be representative of superstructure operations
at Sali Portudal. Income projections show that the pilot hotel will reach a
steady gross operating profit of 23% of gross revenues after the second year
of operation. The financial rate of return on the investment in the pilot
hotel will be 9%. The return on equity will vary between 7.6% and 14.8%
depending on whether management of the hotel is entrusted to an individual or
to a company. These figures are indicative of the returns which can be
expected by investors, whose return on equity will also depend on the terms on
which they get long-term financing. A sensitivity analysis shows that financial
returns in constant terms both on the overall investment and on equity are
particularly sensitive to changes in hotel occupancy rates and tariffs. Thus
a significant decrease in either of these determinants of hotel revenues could
lead to returns unattractive to investors, a situation which might occur if
demand did not keep pace with the proposed development of accommodation
capacity. In order to reduce the risk that this situation occurs, the Govern-
ment has agreed not to grant incentives to any competing new hotel development
which might jeopardize the financial viability of the proposed development in
Sali Portudal. (Section 4.02(e) of Loan Agreement). As its initial task, the
Economic Analysis and Planning Unit will, in consultation with the Bank,
establish the criteria that will be used to determine whether competing
projects jeopardize the viability of the Sali development.
Economic Justification
56.       The proposed project has been designed to provide basic infrastruc-
ture and other facilities required to support a major tourism development.
The investment program analyzed includes items to be financed under the
project (infrastructure, common facilities, pilot hotel, irrigation, and
renovation on Goree island), as well as related superstructure facilities
(e.g. hotels, shops) which are expected to be developed by the private
sector to serve visitors to Sali Portudal. The total cost of the investment
package is estimated at US$48.2 million in 1976 prices.
57.       The gross benefits to the economy resulting from the project
would be the expenditures of tourists attracted to the Sali Portudal resort.
The project is expected to attract new beach-motivated traffic without
diverting customers from existing hotel capacity. Consequently, the gross
benefits would be incremental to Senegal as a whole. Benefits expected to
be generated by the investment in Goree have been taken into account only to
the extent that they appear in the projected expenditures of Sali Portudal
visitors; even using this conservative approach, the proposed investment
would yield a satisfactory rate of return. Nonetheless, the major justi-
fication for the investment in Goree is the preservation of an area of
cultural and historical importance which plays a significant role in en-
hancing Senegal's attractiveness as a tourist destination. Benefits asso-
ciated with the irrigation component and the provision of utilities to



- 20 -
neighboring villages are minor and have not been quantified. Given the
extent of unemployment and underemployment existing on the Petite Cote, the
shadow wage rate of labor has been assumed at 50% of wages received by the
unskilled labor force in the project hotels.
58.       On the basis of an estimated 30-year life for the project, the
economic return is expected to be almost 16%. This return is sensitive to
changes in investment costs, gross operating profits, the timing of hotel
development, the level of hotel receipts, and shadow pricing of foreign
exchange. A sensitivity analysis shows that under assumptions where invest-
ment costs increased by 20% or hotel developmert takes 15 years rather than
the 5 years forecast, the economic return on the project declines to about
13% which remains satisfactory.
59.       The principal beneficiaries of the project are expected to be:
(i) the Government, which would receive direct earnings through SAPCO, sales
taxes on tourist expenditures, as well as income taxes from firms and indivi-
duals engaged directly in the sector; (ii) the workers employed in tourism
activities who would benefit primarily from the higher wage levels offered in
the tourist sector; (iii) the residents of nearby villages, including people
not directly involved in tourism activities, who would benefit from improved
public utilities to be provided as well as from the irrigation component; and
(iv) private investors in hotels and related tourism facilities (e.g. shops,
and restaurants). Distribution of the benefits directly generated by tne
Sali Portudal development are estimated to be approximately as follows:
Government (either directly or through SAPCO), 43%; hotels, 37%; other private
(including common facilities in the resort area, plus other facilities
outside such as shops, taxis, etc), 20%.
60.       Direct employment generated by proJect hotels and commercial
tourist activities is expected to total over 1,200 by 1986 when all planned
accommodation would be fully operational. Indirect employment in construc-
tion works, handicrafts, agriculture, and other services is likely to
account for an additional 2,000 jobs.   Net incremental foreign exchange
earnings generated by the project are estimated at about US$15 million per
year in 1986.
61.       Additionally, the project is expected to provide major benefits
in institution-building which, although extremely important, cannot be
quantified. These benefits include: (i) a more rational development of the
tourism sector through establishment of the Economic Analysis and Planning
Unit (EAPU); (ii) improved organization and operation of existing tourism
investments through management advice to be provided by EAPU; and (iii) the
assurance of orderly development of tourism on the Petite Cote (especially
with regard to design, layout, and environmental standards) which will be the
responsibility of SAPCO following completion of the project infrastructure
works.



- 21 -
Social Impact
62.       The proposed project includes a number of works which are specifi-
cally directed to improving living conditions of the population in the Sali
Portudal area; these include free water supply for neighboring villages,
sites and services for expansion of Sali Portudal, and irrigation of 20 ha of
land for cultivation of fruit and vegetables which would provide employment
opportunities for about 40 farm families.
63.       The project is not expected to have any significant psychological
or social cost. Experience derived from the operation of existing tourist
villages suggests that the influx of foreign visitors would be welcomed
by the Senegalese who have a reputation for hospitality and friendliness.
Local workers would live in M'Bour, a spontaneously growing city, rather
than being restricted to a 'company town'. Since M'Bour is within easy
reach of the resort area (about 4 km), it is expected to provide a popular
excursion for visitors who would have an opportunity to participate in some
aspects of Senegalese life. Tourism development in Sali Portudal, far from
disrupting traditional activities in the area, is expected to improve living
opportunities for the village population by providing an expanding market
for food and fish production. SAPCO would promote food cultivation near the
project site, and would assist local farmers and fishermen in marketing
their products.
64.        Since it is considered important that the Government be alert
to any possible social problems which could arise around the resort area,
the proposed project provides for the services of a sociologist who would
monitor the project's impact on the social fabric of the M'Bour area, and
advise DGT and SAPCO on measures required to ensure that, to the extent
possible, contacts between the local population and the tourists would be
based on understanding and mutual respect.
Project Risks
65.       The project is economically justified under a wide range of
assumptions regarding the rate of accommodation buildup and tourist expendi-
tures. However, although the proposed works have been designed to make the
project area attractive to hotel investors, and although SAPCO will under-
take strong investment promotion efforts, there is still a risk that inves-
tors might not be forthcoming in the numbers expected unless they have
expectations of reasonable financial returns on the Petite Cote as compared
with investments elsewhere. This risk will be reduced by proposed Govern-
ment measures directed toward: (a) stimulating tourist demand; and (b)
preventing hotel over-capacity in Senegal generally and on the Petite Cote
in particular.
66.       As regards the former, the marketing program proposed under
the project would be aimed at consolidating existing tourist markets and



- 22 -
developing new ones; also, the Government has agreed to use its best efforts
to permit the development of air charter traffic to Dakar, and this is expected
to reduce the cost of packages to Senegal and make them attractive to larger
segments of the tourist market.
67.       The Government is prepared to take appropriate measures to protect
its investment in the proposed project by refusing incentives to any competing
new hotel development which might jeopardize the financial viability of the
investment in Sali Portudal; by not granting to hotel investors elsewhere in
Senegal incentives which are any more favorable than those offered for Sali
Portudal; by not authorizing new hotel investment on the Petite Cote outside
of Sali Portudal until the planned accommodation build-up under the proposed
project is completed; and by setting lease rents for hotel sites elsewhere in
the country at levels comparable to those in Sali Portudal.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreements between the Bank and the Republic of
Senegal, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, SAPCO, and the Office
des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT), the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed Loans, are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex IV, Section
III. Conditions of Loan effectiveness concern: (a) enactment of a land-use
plan for development of the Sali Portudal area; (b) approval by SAPCO of
regulations incorporating provisions of the development plan; (c) promulgation
of a decree initiating procedures for registration of Sali Portudal land, and
signing of a convention generale describing conditions under which land is to
be made available to SAPCO and to developers of tourism investments by SAPCO;
(d) increase of SAPCO's subscribed equity, and paying in of the first install-
ment; (e) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between SAPCO ard the Govern-
ment; (f) signing of interagency agreements between SAPCO and the agencies
responsible for construction and management of the water and sewerage, elec-
tricity, and telecommunicatiorns components; and (g) selection of suitable
management for the pilot hotel. Conditions of disbursement from the Loan
Account of the related funds are: (a) conclusion of a subsidiary loan agree-
ment between OPT and the Government; (b) appointment of an architect in charge
of the Goree works; and (c) Bank approval of a marketing program for the Hotel
Relais de l'Espadon.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and with the established criteria for Third
Window Loans.



- 23 -
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
April 12, 1977



CSENEGAL            -   Xl*L X"lC^fltS 34t *      f;r
LAND ANRA (THOU XN2)                   -
-.............                            SENEGAL                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
rOYAL       196.2                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.         ..960                              1970   ESTINATE          CHANA          IVORY COAST    TUNISIA
........._^e**-- .......................................... . ..._* ................ ......,,_...... ..... .............. -
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      220.0      240.0       370.0              340.0       360.0      s70.0
....... ........... ..-"
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
._._...___......................
POPULATION tNIO-YR. MILLION1             3.6         4.4         5.0                8.6         5.4        5.1
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUAR9 KM.                        I7.o        22.0        25.0               S*.O        16.0       31.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           ..        39.0          ..                63.0       30.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE 9IRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         6S.0        *7.6        47.6               49.8        66.1       44.T
CRUDE DEArH RATE PER THOUSAND         27.5        24.4        23.9               24.4        23.3        16.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..       156.0      150.0               156.0          *-      125.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)        35.9        40.0        40.0               4t.5        41.0       51.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..         3.0         3.0                3.2         3.1         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                  z.l         2.6          .                 2.6                     20
URBAN                                  3.5         6.0                            45           :?        3S.
JRBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)            Z2.7       29.0          ..               20.4        28.0        60.0
AGE STNUCTURE (PERCENT)
3 TO 14 YEARS                        62.6        41.2          ..               46.9        *2.5       46.3
15 TJ 64 YEARS                        53.6        S4.9          ..               69.5        54.8       50.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.8         3.9          '-                3.6         2.7         3.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.9         0.8          .                 1.0         0.8         1.0
E:ONOMIC OEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.z        1.2                            1.4 ..9&                1.8
FAMILY PLAN4ING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)            ..          ..          ..               tO.S          .-       112.2
USERS (t OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..         ..          ..                2.0          ..        12.0
EHPLDYMENT
.......... ........ 
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          130O.o      1600.0          ..             3300.0      2600.0      1300.0 ^
LABOR rORCE IN AGRICULTURE cz)             ..       73.0          ..               54.0        82.0        57.0 A
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)              ..         7.0         ..                s.e         6.0        12.0
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
... .. ___.___.....
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST   SZ OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.e 8       ..          ..                 ..          ..        23.5  d
HIGHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS             62.5 5        ..          ..                 ..          ..        55.5 d
LOWEST   201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              .2                                         ..          ..          .2
LOWEST   401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              .                       ..                 ..          ..        11.4
OISTRIUTION OF LANO OWNERSHIP
............ .....................^_...... 
I OWNEO BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS               ..         ..          ..                  ..         ..        5
I OW4E) BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS             ..         ..          ..                  ..         ..         O.SE
HEALTH AND NUrRITION
.__.._._..............
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2210D.0 /   16640.0     16540o.L          12950.0     12140.0      5950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              ..      2680.0     2260.0 ^           1070.0      2480.0       710.0
PIPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             830.0 Ld   810.0 b     8140.0 a           760.0       680.0 j     610.0
PER CAITY SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)          97.0        97.0       1oa.0A              96.0       108.0        86.0
PROTrIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               6.0         6i4.0       65.04              *6.C        60.0        54.0
-O' WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..        2B.0            4 ..           10.0 4      18.04       14.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                ..         ..          ..                  ..         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATID
PRIMARY SCHOOL                           ..         80:0      43.04              580          6.0       107.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                        I.1.            g        .9.4                        1.4         2.
Y E AR S O F iSCHOOLING PROVIOED                    5 0                                       Ll 0         0 Z
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              13.0        13.0        13.0               15.0        13.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(1 OP SECNONARY)                         ..        7.0          ..23.0                        7.0        34.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                             10.0         0.06              253.0       20.0-
HOJSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               1.5,
OCCUPIED DWELLI1GS WITHOUT
PIPE) WATER (1)                           06OA
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                   l2.0 L         *                                                   60.0
CS aF ALL DWELLINGS)                  96.0 72.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (t.                                            ..          ..          ..
CONSUMPTION
...........
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          47.0        69.0        67.0               78.0        17.0        77.0
PASSEN3ER CARS (PER THOU POP)            6.0         9.0         9.0                 5.0       10.0        13.0
ELECTRICITY CRAM/YR PER CAP)            41.0 i       3.0        92.0               338.0      120.0       155.0
NEWSPRINT CR6/YR PER CAP)                 D.1        0.1         0.1                 0.4        0.2         0.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANINEXI -
Pago 2o-f 4 pages
NOTES
Unesoharwiss noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bertosec 1959 tad 1961, for 1970 between 196$ and 1970, and for Moat Rentr Estimate between
1913 end 1975.
Toniois hen been talented ase       bjeotilvemcutry ba..so.. of san    sinllarity of it. econmy with the Sene.galeseonmy          including favorable
proepecta for the devIlomet of fieberiee end t-uism
SENEGAL               1964    I   RAti   of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor fort.;       /b  Population;    ic   1903;   /d   1962,
go,nromet hoepita1 setabliabnente;       It  rtota, urban and -rura;     If  1959, data -r for      -~ne of Dakar
only end refer to Enrop.an-typa dwellngs;       LI  Inside only.
1970    Ia   Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and over to total labor f.esa;       lb   Govenmet honpito1 eetabliehnoente;
-   77   1964-66;   /d   Ulnedjuated;   Iv Levr usoondary leve.
MOST RECETR ISTIMATE:      Ia  1972;    /b  Govranest hospital establisi.h.nc;       /c  1969-71 averge;     /d   1971.
0GHAfA               1970     /a  Rgistered only;      lb  Registered, not all practicing in th.e coutry;      It   1966-68;   /d   6.15 and 16-21 years of
age: rsp-ctivaly.
IVIRY COAST          1970     IaSu    to fuigi9snion, grouth rete fo higher than rote of nuurl        or...e.     lb   1965-70;   Ic   Ratio of popolation
under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;      Id   Governent only;     I    1964-66;   /f   t2-18 years of age.
TUNtISIA              19710   I   1956-66;    lb  1966-    lo  Ratio of Ppoplation under 15 end 65 and over to total labor foros;        Id   Io..-  r-ol-
__piento;    /e  covering   75 nillion hectorea of privet, land. socluding 0.6      illimm hattaree in pu.blIc ouerhip,
end 2.1 nj!.ilinh.ettare   of collootina land;    It   Pereonnel in govenmet aorvlonu only;        /a  luvrsoet
hoepita   tstbiishenstnt only;    /b   1964-66;   T?   Regietered only;    Li One. to eniEration, grouch rate in lasr
than rate of natural increase.
R6, Augunt 11, 1976
DEIIISITIONS OP SOCIAL 1N5IrA1068S
Land Area (thou hr2I                                                                 Population pot nureino psrouc - Population divided by cunbor of preei-
Total -Total   -ufa-    ano co-pr ini. land sins sod inland wtors.                      clog ..a. and fnul    graduato cur-s, "trained" or "certified"
Anric.-   Mont roo...t sotinste uf agricultural oreautod tanpocr.ily or                 cures... an d  -uilicry pornunnol with trsinici or acperionc...
Pero..ceutly for erupt, patturon, markot & bkttuhon gardens or to Iin              PopuIstioc Per hospital hod - Population divided by nuebec of hoopita1
ful iou.                                                                             bode avilable in public and private general and epncisiiond hoapite1
And rohahilitatior ucioo;      coldon nursing honen end establishente
GNP per -apita (u55) - lop pe c"apita sotiostes at c-rront -aket pnicoa,                for cou todia1 and proventivo noon.
calculated byce       noeriu- nethod an Worl     Snub Atlan. (1973-75 boals);      per capita supply of caoie       7 of rnuuirementn) - Computed from
160  19/0 aud 1975 fIn,                                                             energy eqoi-alno    of Oct food ouppliso a-alsh      ~in l  country Per .c.pits
pa  dy;aviloblo  uppIcsco-prian doceotic production, inponts lees
Pocutlatiuc end vito1 atatincc ntro                                                               n   uhugnin sol        n     pplioseoludo -nin       goofed, seed.,
'PoclaIuc(old-yr. million) -A.ouf July first:        if not snailaule,                  quacile      sd in fuod pr--eting and lunee in distribution; requir-
--anrgo of two cud-year as tioatae; 1960, 1970 and 191~5 data,                        cets unre estieoted by PAO based on phy.tologloal needs far n..-a
autivty and health --nedering etioneta             nperoture, body weighte,
Pooaicdnit'-pr       -oar  kn - Mid-your population per oquare kilo-            af  and nudineributiona of population, and al11ning 100 for .nate
me"ter   10 detre'     ofttahnn.a                                                            buunod lvl
Popolacin denlty p-Per oc-ae ho of Aunic       .lad - Computed an chu- for           Per capita oopp1y of Prot... (gmmo per day) - Prutnin cotent of per
ogrlucitura   lard oniy.                                                             capita net sopply of food Per day; not nupply of fond io defined a
abve   rquiannt   frl     cutries     atabllshe:d by USD1A itoni
litul statineics                                               feeeorob Serulocs provido fur u~~~~~~~~~~S'  nii_o alownc  of 60 gaeo
Crude birth rtaco cth c..u.nd, -ver.ge - Annual live blrtho per thousa.nd               tots1 protein per day, and 20 gr-on     f animal and poles protein, of
of old-peon population; ton-pour orithntir a-erageo ending in 1960 cod               which Ii gE_      hbuold in urinal protein; then. etandrdn era lose.r
i970, and finn-year u-orge -ndini in 1975 fur oust rooc-t ossinart.                   then th.e of 75 grace of total prutein and 23 grams f.f anica      protein
Crude  eth rata per thousand. a-Erg4- Ac....l deotho per thousa.nd of old-              00 en -00mm    fur the -ord, proposed by FAG in the Third World Poond
ynar populatin    rnyuorithnti u.....rege        ening in 1960 and 1970 sod           Survo.y
ccoyurorg    end Ingin1915' fur not roren     eatinto.                      Per u"'ita prtei    noIp Iron crie        and Puie - Protein eupply of food
.lare r_t,ity ogre (/thuo) -AnnualI dnathn uf llsota under urne yo                      derived fo-   anu      ndple      in grunt per day
of ag   Per thousan d lio births.                                                  Dnath -te ((thou) agen 1-b - Annual d1-tbo Per thoonod in age group
Lifo onp_utunc   At birth (pen) - A-ergo ounher of yeara of life remin-                 1-4 yearn, to childre    in thio age group;   ugg eoto~dcca   indi-ntur of
ing ut hirth;e onoulfp fv-70y0     --ergen coding in 1960, 1970 and                  talurition.
1975 fur developing -eunt-n..
G..u.n...r..uc-iuonrute- Avnr.. cE     oarof linduErnsuaul                             du...tion
fear in hcr   uroa1 rep-ducivo PerIodif eh eaP.r icroo        presen   age-        Adiuned erl cetrtio - cri-ar           school - Inr-IIo-t of all agen as
uPeeifi    e torrlity rarno; u..ally five-year -vergen ending ic 1960,                pneorc..atge of primary nehai-ogo population; includon ohildron aged
1970 and 19 75 for d_evnlP:ogou_trien.                                               6-li py-    but adjonted for different lengthn of pri-ary edurstion;
Population aouth rais (7) - LotalI - Coepou..dManal growth rtee. of old-                for countries   lih universa   edu-tion, erlent ap .esed 1007.
jce pupuaco,  ur- 19si-to, 1160-7     nd i9711-15.                                 no_    .eon  pae   are bic 1-or coov eo offica       ennou  age.
Population crueth rato (71) - urban - Computod like grooth ecto of total             Adiuotnd arliotratio'-seondar'y sahuol -iConputed an above;
popula.tion; diff-ervt deflocitione of urban oman nap affect ...mpara-                .n.undary edo...tiun requirco at Inset.four yeses of approved pri-ary
*  ilitt7 of data _vn   countries.                                                     'ntuto;pruvidon fe         -rivetiocal or teacher trsinif
urha  p   ultIon (7 of total) - Ratio of uI.rban to totalpopulation;                    iutrru    clue  foe Pup'  of    t  17 pests of age; --ropandenne
di7fferen't definiti-u of urhan   tee    ay affant _onprabiIity of data                oro.r       genet% rallyiocclde.d.
a   _uncotrien                                                                  Ynano of -eh-uling provided (firt snd ..e.ard levels) - Total       .eare of
sgetructur     son        ChIldren (0-14 y0005), coring-ago (15-64 yearn),            schooling; a   ....cundary Il...l, voctional instruction osy be Po--
and ret.1ireWY,d   ye,n anod ove). a  pernotagee of nil-pent popula'tion.           Vtio11y or -opletely en.nluded.
Agodydny ratio         - Ratio of populatiu   under 15 and 65 and ove    to           Voctional enrollment (% uf asnundary) - V-catiuna1 institutions
those of agen 15 thr-ogh_64.                                                          iulddote-hni-ol, industrial or othor pregram       whic.hi opoete
iEuncic do, end"eny ratio    - Stia of pupclatiia  unde   1.5 cud 65 nod 00c r          lodepend-ncy or se deparicens of secodary i-acicutlne
to rho loborfm.        nae gop of 15-64 py-r.                                      Adult liitorary rate (0) - Llteratc sd'l t    (ableto rad and'write) a
Ponilyulnnnna-annpior  (eacl=jj   ,h.b)Q - Cou1ati-e nenber uf                   percentage of total edu1t .popuLaion    ged 15 yearn and over.
auc epturn of birth-control d-eien and or .uspi..n of onationalfamily
planning program  siren inupti.-                                                    Rousing
Pa_il planning -     -rom  (0 of carrIed nsn       P.teretagno of marIed              Persons Or room (urban) - Aerage cachet of pereon. :penr.roo       in
ucuon of uhild-b-cring age v15-b4 yacosT uh. u-      birth-nuntrol device             oropted ue.....ni.nn1 d-ollings in uriso areas; doelIings e-nlde
no.1 allnuriod wucan in   -m   age group.                                             -on-,er-aneon,tructren and u--npied pane..
...upid doelilco withoot p       od atr (7.  - (-cpiod convectional
impl.y.nto                                                                              doelding   Inubnadrua           rs     ithout inside or outside pi ped
Total labor forca (thousand& - icnnca..ersp000,inidE                                     -atr fa-ilitiee an peroontogo of all -u-pied dwellings.
arodfrron and   -epleynd becr euldlu     bve-wivse, students, one.;             A.cease to e1-tricitv (0 ci all d-ellingA) - Ct..nent lanai dee11igs.
dofinitiosin varIous        tui-n are not    omp.arshl-                               with electricity in ilinig quater      se percent of total dwellings in
taho.r force in narlu-Iture (0   - Agrico1tural labor far. (in farming,                 urban and ruralcrss
footr  -butn  and fishing) asp-etg          f  tota  1sbnr force.             RuaEelia          oncerted to nleortlirit (0) - Cumputed as ohu- for
Unemplyed (7. of labo   frce) - ineplynd areuncil          defined onrra                      do    igoonly.
per..n. who.ar   abl   and oillig to tkba a joh, out of a Job o 
giver day, remained out of a job, sod ...shing -th forusypo ifiof                   Cnamut2121
olla  oid.nt.rodo        0    .eo.  nay.not ho ronpsrabin heson              Raioreoi.r       (per thau Pop) -.All rypen of rciesfoe radia broad-
coutres duo to deffaro      doSition      loeyon         n    oreo                    at    to genral pub1ic per.thoneond of population; occ ludes
daa,ng.     epomnt ofic      ottnl         aPle surep, coopulaury                  unlicensd receivers    .-outries and in pacts when -egitr-ti-nu
unolt    on   loaaanc.                                                                rdio sets waa in effect; data fur recet yoaro nay nor hecom.parsbi
Ioc...n Diotribution - Porcentage of private inc...e (both in cah and                 Panegr cao(per thnu pop) - Pos..e.ager cars cumyr iso ontor          r
hind)froenivo,d by richeet 50, iluhrst 210, pooront 200, and pno.ret                  seating less than eight pe"nenn;     -1cldesablacs         hearses and
400 o hoehldn                                                                         mi1ctsty vehioln..
iloctricltv (khuhyv per cap) - Annual    -onsuption of industriel, cc
Diutrihution of land ownership - Peruntages of land owned by oeaIthinso                 cer.I ;uhblic and privatn elettrinity in kilcu-tt hours per c.pit.;
100 ond poorost L00. of mend owner,                                                   generally base.d on production fats, withaut allawenc     for lass.es in
grids hot allwin     for imporreand ospuets of eetiiy
Health aud Nutrition                                                                  Newsprint (ha,/yr per cap) -P Per capita annual cnse-ption in bilograje
PuPu1atiun Per physiefan - Population dividod by cache      of practicing               eatiested from domestic production plus net imports of newprint.
phyuiei-n qual1ified from a nedinal ochnol at uni-rnity leve.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 44 Pages
ECONOMIC MEVI0P       DA TA
(Amsounts in miliions of7 1.. doJLlara)
1970  Actual  ~ ~~~Sftite         Projcte          19 70   -19 73                       19 70   19 75   19 80
___                                     .~~1 4  ~ 5   1  6 198- 19 73  12.75 
NATIONAL ACCOUNfTS                a   o     iDLi
Ann~sada.taa        19,,71     PTices & Echage Rate,;        Average An5nual Growthi Rates      As Percent of GDY
1. Gross Domestic Product             0.1      7.5      9176b      9804      0356  12117           0.3      5.7      473            99.7     100.5   107.2
P. Gains fromn Terms of Trade   +       2.8  - 17.0      6~,          4.    - 5.    - a1.8                                                    -:0      -.
3.Gross Domestic Income,  1   28                       9L         975.     9   3   1199       --1.1        6.6     3.010.                  100        00
4. Import (iocl. NFS)                 306.5   301.5     308.6       297.4    324.5    357.3       -0.5     - 0.7     3.7             314.5    30.5     31.6
sExports    "(import capacity)      262.0   218.14    30.         267.3    276.4      11        -6.2      10.6     1-.7            U.       27-      25.8
6.  Resource Gap     (4 - 5)          414.s    33.14       8.3       30.1     48.1     66.0                                           5.0       3.1     5.8
7. Consu~mption Expenditures          815.0   807.9     8143.9      862.4    884.2   i011.14      -0.3       3.3     3.2             91.8     88.14    89.5
P.Investment       (incl. stocks)   117.3   155.0      145.8      143.3    1142.2   184.5        4.8       3.0     5.2             13.2      14.7    16.3
9. Domestic Savings      (8-6)         72.8    51.6      137.5      113.2     94,1    118.5      -12.1     148.3     0.9              8.2      li.6    10.5
lo. National Savings                    95.0    71.1     1146.6      119.6     93.5    120.2       -9.4      29.6     0.1             10.5      12.3    i0.6
M4ERCHANDISE TRADE T                        Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Thrports
Capital goods                    43.6    77.3       90.6      108.7    1140     205         21.0      18.6    13.6             22.5      18.7    21.3
intermediate goods (~Lsae        41.1    67.7      100.3      158.8     131     210          18.1     56.3     5.7             21.2      27.3    21.8
Fuels and related materials      10.9    23.6       64.8       69.1      76     123         29.5      74.0    1-2.2             5.6      11.9    12.8
(mostly crude oil)
Con.seution goods                98.3   191k       240,7      244.8     &0      4214        24.9      13.1    11.6             5C.      .2~.Lt 
Toa Merobh Imports (cir)      193.9       0      4o1 r4     581.14    52      92                    2.2     10.6            100.0     l00.C   100.0
Exports
(Oroundnurs                     73,6     68.6     141.3       188.2    2148    230          -2.3     66.1      4.1             48.5     38.6     42.4
Phosphate                       11.9     22.2     103.7       103.7     69      84          23.2    116.o     -4.1              7.8     21.3     15.5
Petroleum products               4.2    11.14      22.1       32.4      13      10          39.7     68.5    -21.3             2.8       6.6     .1,5
Other                           62,2      4, 6    149.        16.              21           15.0     31.3      6.1            140.9     33       40.3
Total Merch. Exports (fb                   7~ 9.1   17.014076            413  5143            9.0     57.5      2.2           100.0     100.0   100.0
Tourism, and Burder TradLe
Merchanidise Trade Indices                    Average 1971       1o0(i. usA)
Export Price Index               91.6   121.5     221.3       183.7    159.8    195.5
Import Price Index              90.5    128.7     194.3       185.5    12.9    249.2
Terms of Trade Index            101.2    94.3     113.9        99.0    592.      78.4
Excports Volume Index          131.-9   103.9     122.4       155.14   191.6    202.3
VALUE ADDED NY SECTOR (at f.c.) An mual Data a,t 1971     Prices and Exchange Rates    . .     Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                    222.7    187.0     227.4       267.1    291.0    328.0       -5.7      19.5    14.2             28.5     30.3     09.8
industry and Mining            173.3    175.4     199.3       212.2    230.0   305.3         0.4      10.0     7.5              22       4.0     ?
Service                        585.5   !Lia.1     -i4         4.n1..          -4 4           1.4       0.2     3.0           4-)'       45.      4P-'
Total                          781.5    764.5     811.1       882.9    941.5   1101.2       -0.7       7.4     4.5            100.0    100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                 Fiscal Years (Jl     /ue 30)inbillions of current CPA Francs                                         As Percent of GDP
(C~entral Government)           1972/73   193/14    1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   1980/81I 72/73_to~74/75   74/75 to 80/81      197     19714   1975  1980
Current Receipts                51.1     55.4      77.3        90.7     89      11          18.4                               20.3   19.9    19.2  1 8.1
Current Expenditures            50.8     49.7      67.5        79.6     8                   15.3              10.5             15.4   17.5    16.8  17.0
Budgetary Savings T                       17       '           11.1      ~      10                                             T~"3 
Other Pablic Sector              2.4      7.2       0.3         5.5      5       7                                              1.8    1.1     0.7   1.0
Public sector investment        15.0     20.4      26.6       32.7      38      60          33.1             114.5              6.5    7.0    6.8    8.3
us   million
cuRRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS (Central Galt             Actuals                 Est.         DETAIL ON                         _____________
(As /% Total Current Expend.)            191721             1973/74  191475 195/76        PUBLIC SECTOR                     Third plan     IL of Total
Eduication and sports                      21.9    22.4      22.9      22.1    21.9     INVESTMENT PROGRAM                   (19 69/T   - 19 72 /73 )
other Social Services (Health)              8.5     8.2       7.8       7.2     7.2      Social- Sectors                       24.3            11.3
Agric-lture                                 5.7     5.6        14.9     4.1     4.6      Agriculture                            62.4           29.o
Other EconomiC Sefyices                     7.9     7.5        7.7      6.9     6.9      Industry and Mining                    15.3            7.1
General Services             ~             40.4     39.1      38.9     38.9     10.6     Water Supply                           24.8            11.5
Other                                      15.6    17.2      18.5      20.4    18.8      Transport and conmmsnications          45.14          21.1
Total Current Expenditures- -                           -        -             -         Other                                 431.1           20.C
100.0   100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0     Total Expenditures                    215.3           100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1L960-     1965-    1970-    1975        FINANCING
(calculated from 3-year averaged daLta)           1965       1970     1975     19-80PulcStoS&iS51                                                21
Average ICON                                       77i        10.'6    6.9      35Bbi                  .co    ai                   192.
Import Elasticity                                    .                0.6      10.3          Grants and Official Loans          1575.
)Mrginal Domestic Savings Rate                       .                0.5       0.0           Loans fromPrivate Sources          37_7_17
Marginal National Savings Rate                        .         .      0.3      0.0           Total Financing                   215.3           100.0
LABOR FORCE ANDT                           Total Labor Force                                    Value Added PerreWorker (171r        Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                In Millions      --Iof Total                              In U.S.Dollars      Pecn      f     ivrge
1971                19 71                                   1-9 7-1 
Agriculture                      0.5                 70                                    238.8                  36.6
Industry                         0.1                  8                                   1779.6                 273.0
Service                          0.3                 22                                  137.7                   211.3
Total                            1.2                1=03 60                                                      100.0
not applicable        - JLi or negligible         17 Registered trade only
not available        -.less than half the          ?/ Border made is not known separately, but is included in the adjustmaents maeA on the
smallest unit shovn            registered trade at the balance of payments.
3,/ Including General Administration, Defense, lustice and Police.
~JIncluading investments financed under foreign aid.



Pae. 4 of 4 9ag
RA2AL Z0   AD2,KIUL         ASSBTBIM ANEMD DM9
A,%. Amoaml
Aeto.l                          E.tir*t.d                   P-                                      IkdeZOrth Net.
19(0I      32-        1972       1975    ~   ~         ~     *    
SW5'ARY 5B15NC1 0F PAY9I0TS
E~o-t. (mi.88)                      236.8      230.8      333.4      555.5       601. 2       676.6      642.1       685        720        774        857      22.6       4.8
DV      n  1.)-276.3                          .294.6     -373.3     -483.1      -.690.3      -751.7     -740.0      -           86         q 3                 22.2       6.9
5~~sonrce Balance (0-N)  3~~~~~~~~  ~~r      -384.1F9-78                                                6.        11         .        -194       13.7      20.9
7ot=eet (net)                       -2.2       -1.7       -2.1       .4.               -11.6' 17         -1          -23        -2         -278      -3        098       2.
Itrot Lav-b-net In-m                -10,2      .10.7      -12.3      -16.4       -26.51       -35.9      -34         -30        .23         -26       .30      21.1       2.5
W-rk-oRo lemtt-a                    .16.0      .15.3      -19.8      -16.0       -19 9L       -18.7      -22         -273       -24         20        -26       3.2        6.8
7~~                                    ~~~                                                         ~~~ ;9  109 1.  4 j i ~ :  5 1 9            10.7       8.6
Carr0.ct Traantara  tat)    0~~7.0     44.9       50.:0      54.8        64.o         60.1i      54    -66                                   7fl      10.7       3.0
C-the fcto-- r, seve  -1 .7...iL-                                                                                                         ~                     12.8     2-3.4
rivate Gte-at Inea-etM               -0.2        3.2        2.3      -14.8        -2.2,       -14.0        4           8         15         20         21
Offi-cl Capital Ge-ate               11.9       18.6        8.3       20.2        19. 4        24.7       29          32         36         40         44      15.7      1-2.2
Disbar-eeto                        18.6       23.2       18.0       99.2        47.3         72.1       93         113        144         180       200      31.1       22.3
- -e  -                 ~~~~   ~   ~~~~-4.6  -7.8  .8.4  -22.4      -09.4         -20.3      -25          33        -44        -50       -5        34.6      23.8 
77 T   104       -10.1      76-.8        27.9        -51.8       68          80        000        100        141      29.9      22.2
7f.h-     L-1 mn
iOcn..rnece-ctn            11~~~     ~~.8  3.4  10. 9        -           47-                                --                     --                  -
- -- - .                  ~~~~   ~   ~~~~-4.6  -3.1  -7.9  -27.8       -28.2        -2.7        -6          -           -         -         -         -          -
capi~oi Te-nrnarttonn n.a.0.03.        .0.4      -7.9         34         22.0       -12.5       50-                                 -        -          -        -
fi-agr '0lt4nmv       lcean    -    .23.6       -0.7       ,2.       -43.:9        g19.4                 Z.1                     12         dO5       c16        --
- .0  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   *0~~~                          .0~~~.                                  1900    1930   aOle ~~~EN  MDAetoeL
35.4       4c                    5.8.a       cc.         0.d -...0(o -         .                                       11(    4949I
11.9       18.6                  19.1                    24.7                                   -           -      -       -    - 
T-I9--   and Urc-ltlake           47.3       61. 2      56.6       72.         77. 7       81.1      Oetoe-et no Pablia Dbt        1.4     4.4    6.6     7.2   13.6       17.6
1111D                               --        --         i5.6        0.6         3.0         7.0     Rapoy-nat no Puli 0.5t         4.-6   7L.8    8.4_'  02.4   13.4      20.3
-A                        ~~~~2.1     7.0       01.2       23.7         --         25.0     Total P0bli. Debt S-iale       6.0    1.2.2  13.0    29.6   03.-0      37.9
Af e-t 00-e bocd                    --          --         --        --          4.8         6.1      Otior Debt S.-eae   (not)     8.0     8.2    8.4    27.7 {03.-1        3.4
ct(.r 1altilata-a                   --         1.5        1.0        3.0         5.4         3-7      Total Debt S-eice (et)       :4.0    20.4   21.4    57.3 J66.i.       41.3
G-ver-on-an                         4.6       10.1       01.3       64.6        41.5        42.9
3tPPlle-n                           1.7        2. 2       1.0       10.0         0.9         ;-     8w-de an E.of,at Me-leeng(6
Fi,.-.icla  i-otitatto-             --        00.0        5.9       75.4         8.2        2.0
Paulo. Debt Se-vi.e            2.5    5.3     39     8.0,j 51.5        5.6
T.t.1Nbli MUTL.-          777-     -17          9-         rT         68 ____               Tnte1 Debt Swi.e               5.9    8.8     6.     61 1/  1 0.~      6.1
IcCol robilr n&e.T 10.00   80~~~  G0~~  49.1   777~    1~~9      '!3277      OflSasfreet Coanot. Paso..    10.2t  14.0.  10.8 11:1 o.8  11.6 i i   11:4
KKTERNAL DEBT  ~ ~      ~       2001Debt Ontetna20    on 2ee. 31t                            kne-ate T.em nf P9l.51   DaleW
World Back                       T03~~~~~~~~~~0 Iat. .. % Prior !.e I&DM                                                   1.6     4.0    3.6     5.2    6.7       7.3
110                                          439                     11.2                             A20t. -     ..% Prior Ywo DD05  5.2     7.6    6.7    16.1    9.6        8.4
Ot-e  Mtaaea88                                                        3.1
Go3-cnco964                                                          33.0                             ouD Deb- Ouat. & D405wbud
o-viae-n                                     14.3                     .0.                              e-a % Pbli1 Debt 06D           2.2     1.8    1.7     iI.    1i.4       3.5
F-.rc-Iao letitatloa                        109.7                    38.0                                 a. % Pabli' Debt Sea-ea      4.1    3.2     3.1    1.8     1.9       2.0
Wondo                                          .                      1.7
Totli Pabtic -OSI letM9 ~                                               0~bt PUt. &DteSo-d
T~~t-l Nbli~~~ MUT Nbt  P77F-5            T'O"                                %0.0   ob'i D.bt 000          8.5     8.4   11.4    10.2   13.0       15.2
Olther 81T Dabta                             80.o                                                      C ~% NMbIt Debt Deavie.         0.1    0.5     0.7    0.3     0.7       0.7
Shortt-to lobt (20.b. on1;,)
tat aPpli-ablo                                               Ot.f .o41imen
not a-olabla                                              -   il or mgligible
tot available eaparatoly                                   1-- e. tbeo helf the
bat iloaded i,0 44.1                                         eoealet Weit eho



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 28, 1977)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                  (US$ Million)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower     Purpose            Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans* and five credits fully disbursed          14.1   24.8
252-SE       1971    Senegal     Rice Development            3.7        0.1
253-SE       1971    Senegal     Technical and Agri-
cultural Education         2.0       0.1
254-SE       1971    Senegal     Settlement Scheme           1.4        0.2
835-SE        1972   Senegal     Railway              6.4               1.8
336-SE       1972    Senegal     Housing Site &
Services                   8.0       5.3
S-3-SE        1973   Dakarmarine Ship Repair           .5                -
866-SE        1973   OPTS        Telecommunications   6.25              3.0
366-SE       1973    Senegal     Highway Maintenance         8.0        1.6
404-SE        1973   Senegal     Agriculture Credit          8.2        1.2
446-SE        1974   Senegal     Drought Relief              3.0        0.4
987-SE        1974   SOFISEDIT   Development Finance 3.0                1.2
530-SE        1975   Senegal     Education                  15.0       14.3
S-18-SE        1975   Senegal     Irrigation Eng.             1.0        0.5
549-SE)       1975   Senegal     Agric. Diver-
1113-SE)                            sification         7.0    7.0       12.6
578-SE        1976   Senegal     Terres Neuves II            2.0        1.7
1221T-SE       1976    Senegal     Feeder Roads         6.6               6.2
1222-SE       1976    Senegal     Third Highway       15.0              13.8
633-SE**     1976    Senegal     Livestock                   4.2        4.2
647-SE       1976    Senegal     Second Sedhiou              6.3        6.3
1332-SE**     1976    SOFISEDIT   Second Development
Finance            4.2               4.2
Total,                                  63.05  94.6      78.7
of which has been repaid                8.8     .1
Total now outstanding                   54.25  94.5
Amount sold            3.0                       .1
of which has been
repaid                3.0               -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA***       53.75  94.4
Total Undisbursed                       37.20  41.5      78.7
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
**   Not yet effective.
*** Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1977)
Amount (US$ Million)
Type of                          Equity
Year     Obligor               Business               Loan    Investment     Total
1967     Societe Industri-     Fertilizer             2.45       1.01         3.46
elle d'Engrais        Plant
au Senegal
1972)    Bud Senegal           Vegetable
1973)    S.A.                  Export                  -         0.87         0.87
1976)
1974     SOFISEDII'            Development
Finance Company       -         0.21         0.21
Total Gross Commitments                      2.45       2.09         4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations,            1.99        .37         2.36
Total Commitments now held by IFC             .46       1.72         2.18
Undisbursed balance
C. Bank and IDA
Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 252           Casamance Rice Project; US$3.7 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effective January 6, 1972
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Project progress has been satisfactory, and production targets
established at appraisal have been exceeded. The project is finished, and
a completion report is being prepared. A follow-up project was approved
by the Board in June 1976.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 253        Technical and Agricultural Education Project; US$2.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1971; Effecttve November 30, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
All components have been implemented. There was a substantial
cost overrun on the project, largely attributable to inflation as a result
of delays in design, as well as to currency realignments; the Government
has financed the overrun. A Project Completion Report is being prepared.
Cr. 254       Terres Neuves Settlement Prolect; US$1.35 Million Credit of
June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The project's settlement program was completed on schedule as antici-
pated at appraisal.   The project has been successful in providing higher in-
comes than expected for settlers, and has attracted families with more adult
workers than originally anticipated.    Three hundred families have been settled
as envisaged, and there are about 2,300 people in the six settler villages.
The necessary social infrastructure is being completed.    Adequate and evenly
distributed rainfall ensured good crops during the last seasons.     Societe des
Terres Neuves (STN) (the State Corporation in charge of the project) is
taking measures to solve the problems relating to financial management, audit
and project monitoring. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed shortly.
Cr. 314/        Second Railway Project:  US$3.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835         Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
The original project was substantially modified to reduce track
renewal works in favor of making funds available to purchase spare parts for
track laying and maintenance equipment and for locomotives. Track renewal
has now been completed, as well as procurement for workshop rehabilitation
and track equipment, and orders have been placed for locomotive spare parts.
Rehabilitation of workshops is now underway and is expected to be completed
by mid-1977. All material for modernization of freight cars has been ordered,
but the delivery time for some parts is extremely high, and delays in work
execution can be expected; according to the Railway's planning schedule, the
modernization program will probably not be completed before about March 1978.
As a result of sustained efforts by the Bank, a new General Manager has been
appointed, and a highly qualified French engineer has been recruited to fill
the new position of Deputy General Manager. Much improvement is still needed,
however, in management efficiency and training, and this will be the focus of
a proposed Third Railway Project appraised in February 1977.
Cr. 336         Site and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Project execution is about six months behind schedule due to delay
in approval of contracts caused by lack of counterpart funds. However, a



ANNEX II
Page 4
first disbursement of counterpart funds took place in February 1977, allowing
work to resume. To speed up the completion of priority infrastructure, the
percentage of IDA fund disbursement has been tempoiarily increased from 45%
to 67%. This increase was made possible by the postponement of construction
of community facilities beyond June 1978; their construction according to the
October 1976 schedule was no longer justified in view of the slow pace of
plot occupancy, The percentage of IDA disbursement will be reduced after
June 1978 to a level consistent with the balance of IDA funds. Most of these
funds will then be used to help finance the construction of community facili-
ties which should be completed by June 1979. The project will continue to
receive close supervision.
Ln. 866         Telecommunications Project: US$6.25 Million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Large cost overruns have raised the cost of this project from US$8.9
million at appraisal to US$20 million according to recent estimates. A co-
financing formula was successfully worked out which included a loan from the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of US$4 million, new
French suppliers' credits of US$4 million, and an increased contribution
from the borrower, Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS).
The new financial package and conditions of the CCCE loan were accepted by
the Senegalese Government and the agreement would enable the project to be
completed as originally appraised. The impact of the additional investments
on OPT's financial position cannot yet be determined because the accounts and
financial statements have not been audited recently, and because OPT has not
introduced an analytical accounting system providing for separation of tele-
communications and postal/financial operations. The Commission des Comptes
is currently undertaking the first full-scale audit of OPT's accounts and
financial statemenits as of the end of FY 76. The Government has authorized
payment of arrears to OPT, but actual disbursement has not yet taken place
due to the weak financial position of the Treasury.    As far as the physical
execution of the project is concerned, some progress has been made, but due
to uneven timing of the execution of different components, completion is not
now expected before mid-1979.
Cr. 350        River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9, 1973;
Effective June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Procurement has been completed for the main components of the project,
and contracts have been awarded. Construction of works is progressing satis-
factorily. The Senegalese authorities requested that the Debi Lampsar com-
ponents of the proJect be dropped and reformulated within the broader framework
of integrated development of the Senegal River Basin; the proposed reformula-
tion was agreed upon by IDA, and an engineering project for Debi Lampsar was
appraised in December 1974 and approved by the Board in April 1975. The Credit
was fully disbursed by end-March 1976. The Credit proceeds were not sufficient
to complete the project, despite the deletion of the Debi Lampsar component,
because of the effects of price increases, currency fluctuations, and addi-
tional works undertaken. However, Government is channelling about US$2.0



ANNEX II
Page 5
million into the project, and the implementing agency SAED (Societe d'Amenage-
ment et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta) is presently seeking about US$1.0
million in supplementary financing from Government to complete the final 500 ha
of the project.
Cr. 366        Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9,
1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
implementation of a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies
and a review of feeder road requirements. The strengthening program was re-
duced from 109 km originally scheduled to about 35 km due to construction costs
being much higher than estimated at appraisal, the effects of inflation, and
also because all the unallocated funds under the Credit were devoted to main-
tenance operations. Construction was satisfactorily completed early in 1976,
about 15 months later than anticipated. The highway maintenance program is
progressing, but well behind schedule, primarily due to the slowness of Govern-
ment services in implementing consultants' recommendations, as well as to the
shortage of supervisory personnel. The preinvestment studies for 228 km of
primary roads, and the review of feeder road requirements, were successfully
completed in mid-1975.
Cr. 404        Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977
The 1975/76 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969. Results of the 1976/77 season are
not yet available, but fertilizer use did increase from 80,000 to about
100,000 tons. Demand for short and medium-term credit remained stronger than
anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to meet requirements.
Government is eliminating the subsidy on some farm implements, and reducing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The on-going study on fertilizer applications
financed under the Credit should provide a basis for policy review in due
course. Major organizational and financial problems still exist at ONCAD
despite technical assistance provided since 1969. Steps taken by Government
in early 1975 to remedy this serious situation--maintaining staff levels,
giving ONCAD management more financial autonomy, and strengthening it with
qualified accountants--resulted in some improvement, especially in accounting.
However, ONCAD's overall performance has not improved, and the organization
remains overstaffed. ONCAD credit requirements attained record levels partly
because of accumulating operating losses, but mainly because of the large
groundnut and millet stocks and prolonged prefinancing for Government's
account.
Ln. S-3        Ship Repair Engineering Loan:   US$0.6 Million Loan of
September 20, 1973; Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date:
September 6, 1977
The project consists of carrying out the following studies to deter-
mine the feasibility of a dry dock project:



ANNEX II
Page 6
a.   Technical studies including those of physical and
geophysical factors affecting site selection.
b.   Economic studies including a market survey, a re-
vision cf the dry dock project feasibility study
and a survey formulating a training program.
The studies have nLow been completed; they indicate low economic and financial
returns, and a relatively high market risk. The Government is exploring pos-
sible financing and ways of reducing the market risk.
Cr. 446        Drcught Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of December 7,
1973; Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date: July 31, 1977
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to rehabilitate people
in drought-affected areas by helping them redevelop and improve their farms
and lands. Equipment and operating costs financed under the Credit have
enabled some Government services to achieve efficient performance levels, and
overall, the project is progressing satisfactorily. Areas destroyed by bush
fires in 1975/76 have decreased by 50% compared with the previous year, and
animal health services have been able to visit and vaccinate an increasing
number of animals, which reflect the reconstitution of the national herd
severely affected by the 1972 drought. Government and IDA are discussing
reducing the scope of the well digging program, the last component of the
project, and rescheduling its execution, since costs proved to be higher than
expected partly because works involved remote locations and difficult terrain.
Ln. 987         SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978
SOFISEDIT was created by the Government in March 1974 for the
purpose of providing long-term financing for development enterprises in
industry and tourism. To recruit the initial staff and to find office space
took several months, and the company did not start operations until November
1974. From its inception until June 30, 1976, SOFISEDIT had approved 19 loans
totalling about US$6.2 million equivalent, and five equity investments total-
ling about US$384,000 equivalent. The loan to SOFISEDIT was expected to be
fully committed by the end of 1976, and funds from a second Loan of US$4.2
million approved by the Board in September 1976 will become available for
disbursement in early 1977.
Cr. 530         Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims to help Senegal meet its modern sector needs
through rehabilitating existing vocational training schools, and providing
new ones, for industry, fishing and the hotel trade. The project also pro-
vides practical training for the rural population through an experimental



ANNEX II
Page 7
scheme of 30 village education centers, and creates science teaching facil-
ities for lower secondary schools as well as building four new schools.
Proj'ect construction is between 12 and 24 months behind schedule. The in-
dustrial vocational training center has been constructed and equipment is
being procured; the principal technical advisers are already engaged in
planning training courses with industry. Design work on the lower secondary
schools has been completed, and bids for construction have been invited.
Architects have now been selected for the hotel training school, and design
work by Unesco for the village centers has begun. Government has now
formulated specific technical assistance requirements for strengthening
the educational planning service, and recruitment is underway.
Cr. 549/       Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million
Ln. 1113       Credit and US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective
October 31, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural
production in the Sine Saloum region through strengthening the activities
of the Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA).
Activities under the project, including the setting up of extension ser-
vices, are underway as planned.
Cr. S-18       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit, US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Effective February 13, 1976; Clos-
ing Date: December 31, 1977
The Credit finances execution of the engineering studies needed for
implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. Despite delays in
effectiveness, the studies are now well advanced, and the original schedule
for project implementation will not be substantially delayed.
Cr. 578        Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project, US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes resettlement of 600 families, and execution
of studies and surveys for a master plan for the Eastern Senegal region. The
settler recruiting campaign and initial land clearing have been undertaken as
planned.
Ln. 1221T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement and maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, and tech-
nical assistance. The project is now in the very early stages of implementa-
tion. Government is about to award contracts for equipment procurement, and
is also in the process of establishing the administrative structure for main-
tenance operations.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Ln. 1222        Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31,
1976; Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 204 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment
studies, highway maintenance, and to develop the domestic construction indus-
try. Government is now in the process of awarding construction and consult-
ants' contracts for 130 km of the pavement strengthening works, and for pre-
investment studies and technical assistance. The first 74 km phase of the
strengthening program carried over from the Second Highway Project (Credit
366-SE) is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. 633         Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
The project consists of developing and operating a controlled
grazing scheme, and providing effective animal health, extension and credit
services to some 30,000 livestock owners. Prior to project effectiveness,
Government used about US$100,000 of the Project Preparation Facility accorded
by IDA. Covernment and SODEFITEX, the parastatal company charged with project
implementation, are continuing to prefinance the Project Unit. The 1976/77
vaccination campaign financed under the Project is underway; the first pastoral
unit has been established and livestock producers appear to accept the project
enthusiastically. Loan effectiveness has been slowed due to delays in the
loans of co-financers BADEA and the Kuwait Fund being made effective, but the
new date of May 15 is expected to be met.
Cr. 647         Second Sedhiou Project: US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25,
1976; Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project is the second phase of the Casamance Rice Project
(Cr. 252) initiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and now completed. The
objectives of the present project are to increase and diversify agricul-
tural and livestock production, and raise the incomes of the district's
rural population. The project would be based on improved farm practices
successfully introduced under the first operation.
Ln. 1332        Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
197'6; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
US$4 million of the Loan amount would meet approximately two-thirds
of SOFISEDIT'S requirements for financing the foreign exchange component
of approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978. The
remaining US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et
de Promiotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to help develop an integrated scheme for
providing assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs. Effectiveness
has been delayed to correct a problem with designation of signatories to the
Loan Agreement.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Senegal
Amount:                US$5.6 million equivalent (conventional Bank Loan)
US$8.0 million equivalent (Third Window Loan)
Terms:                 The conventional Loan will have a term of 20 years
including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest at
8.20% per annum. The Third Window Loan will have a
first repayment date on January 15, 1983, and a
final maturity date on January 15, 2001.
Re-lending:            US$8.2 million of the proceeds will be re-lent
to the Societe d'Amenagement de la Petite Cote
(SAPCO), the proposed executing agency for the
tourism infrastructure at Sali Portudal, on the same
terms as the conventional Bank Loan. US$0.3 million
will be re-lent to the Office des Postes et Tele-
communications (OPT) for construction of the tele-
communications systems, also on the same terms as
the conventional Bank Loan. US$3.8 million will be
used directly by the Government for renovation work
on Goree Island, and for technical assistance and
studies by the Delegation Generale au Touristne
(DGT). US$1.3 million will finance interest during
construction.
Project
Description:           The major objectives of the proposed project are as
follows: (i) to provide infrastructure and common
facilities for the development of a beach-based 2,500-
bed resort on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited hotel
development; (ii) to contribute to the Government's
ongoing program to preservation of Goree Island
and its development as a tourist site by upgrading
the streets, improving the harbor, and extending and
renovating the Government-owned Hotel Relais de
l'Espadon; and (iii) to improve the sectoral planning,
promotional, and training capacities of DGT.



ANNEX III
Page 2
The main project components are as follows:
(a) Civil works (including consulting services for
final design and construction supervision) for:
(i) construction at Sali Portudal of infra-
structure and common facilities for a 2,500-bed
hotel development (including a 250-bed pilot
hotel) and a 20 ha irrigated area; (ii) con-
struction of a telephone exchange at M'Bour;
and (iii) renovation works on Goree Island.
(b) equipment for (i) the streetlighting, water, sewer-
age, power and telecommunications systems in Sali
Portudal, as well as the irrigated area; (ii) the
pilot hotel and the Relais de l'Espadon Hotel; and
(iii) the M'Bour telephone exchange.
(c) technical assistance to: (i) strengthen SAPCO,
including a campaign for promotion of hotel invest-
ments; (ii) establish an Economic Analysis and
Planning Unit (EAPU) within DGT, including four
fellowships; (iii) prepare and implement a market-
ing program for Senegal, including proposals for
promoting the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon; and (iv)
design and develop training programs for the
Hotel/Tourism Training Center at Dakar, including
nine fellowships;
(d) consulting services to: (i) monitor the socio-
economic impact of the tourism development on the
Petite Cote; (ii) prepare a second tourism project,
including possibly further work on Goree island.
Final design for the infrastructure, common facilities
and the pilot hotel will be completed by December
1977. Construction is planned to start by March 1978
and be completed by June 1980.
Estimated Cost:        The total estimated cost of the project (net of taxes
and duties, and including contingencies) is US$17.3
million equivalent, of which US$12.3 million in
foreign costs. Details of cost estimates are shown on
the following page:



ANNEX III
Page 3
(US$'000 equivalent)
Percentage
of Total
Local     Foreign      Total    Base Line Cost
- Sali Portudal
-infrastructure            1,213.2     3,611.3    4,824.5        38
-common facilities           420.0      845.9     1,265.9        10
-pilot hotel                 893.3    1,902.9     2,796.2        22
-irrigated area               40.0       110.8      150.8         1
2,566.5    6,470.9     9,037.4        71
- M'Bour Telephone exchange       101.8       238.0      339.8          3
- Goree Renovation                586.8       933.0    1,519.8         12
- Project Administration          206.9       297.5      504.4          4
- Technical Assistance
and Studies                   163.3    1,160.0     1,323.3        10
Base Line Cost                3,625.3    9,099.4    12,724.7        100
- Contingencies
physical                      313.2      692.6     1,005.8
price                       1,088.2    2,536.5     3,624.7
1,401.4    3,229.1     4,630.5
Total Project Cost          5,026.7    12,328.5   17,355.2



ANNEX III
Page 4
Estimated Disbursements
The proposed Loans will be disbursed pari passu in a 6:4 ratio to
meet the following costs: (i) 65% of total expenditures (net of taxes) for
civil works; (ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of the ex-
factory cost of locally produced goods procured through international competi-
tive bidding, and 75% of the cost of other locally procured items; (iii) 100%
of foreign costs of consulting and technical assistance services; and (iv)
100% of interest during construction payable on each Loan.
The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed Loans
is as follows:
(US$ million)
FY 78     FY 79      FY 80    FY 81
Yearly                       1.5       5.5        5.0     1.6
Cumulative                   1.5       7.0       12.0    13.6
Procurement Arrangements
Major civil works and equipment contracts will be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In
order to encourage such competitive bidding, project items will be grouped to
the extent possible. To permit smaller local contractors to tender for
works of a size within their capacity and at the same time to attract foreign
bidders, contracts for civil works will be tendered either individually
or combined into bidding groups at the bidder's option. In evaluating
international bids for purchasing equipment and some building materials,
Senegalese manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of com,peting imports, or the prevailing level of customs duties,
whichever would be lower. Civil works contracts up to US$200,000 equivalent,
and equipment and materials contracts up to US$50,000 equivalent, will be
advertised locally and awarded in accordance with procedures for competitive
bidding acceptable to the Bank provided, however, that the aggregate amount
of all contracts to be awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of US$1
million.
The proposed Loans include US$300,000 in retroactive financing
to cover foreign exchange costs of SAPCO's expatriate staff after February 1,
1976, as well as of detailed planning and engineering studies and some
preliminary infrastructure which are expected to be undertaken before Loan
signing. The estimated foreign exchange costs required to continue the
above works and services until the expected date of Loan effectiveness
(October 1977) will be financed by an advance from the Project Preparation
Facility of up to $3flO,fO.



ANNEX III
Page 5
Consulting
Services             A total of about 50.3 man years of consulting and
technical assistance services will be required
approximately as follows: (i) 8.3 man years for final
design; (ii) 12.1 man-years for construction supervi-
sion; (iii) 9.3 man-years for project administration;
(iv) 17.4 man-years for technical assistance to DGT; and
(v) 3.2 man-years for studies.
Economic
Return               The project is expected to yield an economic return
of about 16%.
Staff Project
Report               Report No. 1266a-SE dated April 12, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timet,able of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: about 14 months - September 1974
to November 1975
(b) Agency which prepared the project: DGT assisted by UNDP-financed
consultants
(c) Project first presented to Bank: during Identification Mission in
November 1972
(d) First Bank mission to review project: Project Preparation Mission
in May 1963
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission: November 1975
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: March 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1977
Section II: Spec:ial Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the Govesrnment will use its best efforts to permit
by June 30, 1980 air charter traffic to Dakar to the
extent needed by full-scale operations at Sali Portudal
(para. '22);
(b) an Economic Analysis and Planning Unit (EAPU), to be
established within DGT under the project, will carry
out in-depth economic analyses of projects for which
incentivres were sought, and Government support will
be limilted to economically justified projects as deter-
mined by EAPU (para. 25);



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(c) the Government and SAPCO will consult with the Bank on
any proposals to replace SAPCO's President, to change its
organization, or to fill its top-level positions should
they become vacant (para. 47);
(d) the Government will make available necessary complementary
debt financing for hotel investments (para. 50);
(e) the Government will (i) suspend authorizations of new hotel
investments on the Petite Cote outside of Sali Portudal
until the planned accommodation build-up under the proposed
project is completed; (ii) not grant hotel investors elsewhere
in Senegal more favorable incentives than those included in
the convention generale; and (ii) set lease rents for hotel
sites elsewhere in the country at levels comparable to those
in Sali Portudal (para. 50);
(f) the Government will ensure that sufficient hotel beds
will be in operation by 1985 to attain an acceptable
rate of return on infrastructure outlays, unless the Bank
and the Government agree otherwise because of inadequacy of
the potential market (para. 51);
(g) commencing with FY 86, SAPCO will earn a rate of return
of at least 8% on its net assets in operation (para. 54);
and
(h) SAPCO will not pay dividends if this would reduce
its working capital to less than 1.5 times its debt
due the following year; also, SAPCO would not incur
further debt without Bank approval unless its current
revenues are sufficient to cover future debt service
at least 1.5 times (para. 54).
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Loans are:
(a) enactment of a land-use plan (plan d'amenagement)
for development of the Sali Portudal area (para. 32);
(b) promulgation of a decree initiating procedures for the
registration of Sali Portudal land, and signing of a
convention generale satisfactory to the Bank describing
conditions under which land is to be made available to
SAPCO, and to developers of tourism investments by
SAPCO (para. 33);



ANNEX IV
Page 3
(c) signing of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between SAPCO and
the Government (para. 40);
(d) increase of SAPCO's subscribed equity by CFAF 350 million,
and paying in of the first installment of CFAF 87.5 million
(para. 40);
(e) signing of interagency agreements between SAPCO and SONEES,
SENELEC, and OPT, acceptable to the Bank, defining the
agencies' respective financial and technical responsibilities
in construction of the water and sewerage, electricity,
and telecommunications components (para. 45);
(f) approval by SAPCO of regulations incorporating provisions of
the development plan regarding architectural and landscaping
norms, and spelling out the investors' obligations on service
and maintenance standards (para. 46); and
(g) selection of suitable management for the pilot hotel on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 46).
Conditions of disbursement from the Loan Accounts of the related funds
are:
(a) conclusion of a subsidiary Loan Agreement between OPT
and the Government satisfactory to the Bank (para. 41);
(b)  appointment within DUH of an architect in charge of the
Goree works (para. 48); and
(c) Bank approval of a marketing program for the Hotel
Relais de l'Espadon (para. 48).



|It  , ,e  .   |  -        |                                     S E N E G A L
... .IN                                                               ETT       COTE TOURISM                 PROJECT
SALI PORTUDAL LAND USE PLAN
PROJECT    PROJECT EXTENSION
,,-  ,. / '','//'  I IOTELS
frECREATION, SPORT AND
.-                                                                                       ADMINISTRATIVE FACILITIES                           ;bA
COMMERCIAL FACILITIES
A f L  1? 1 1 1                                                s                                               VILLAGE EXTENS ION                               0
Li ct A A.
PILOT HOTEL
PROJECT ROADS                              A 
20  Er  41,  .'J  '~,rie  S  ,I,~i,t  ,                                      ..     PARKING   AREAS
il  1|. 20  l{, 4%1  S)  :,r:,- S 1le'lJlil   ,!  i                     _.__ _         ~~~~~~EXISTING VILLAGE
hILO E TER F                                                                                                  FUTURE ROADS
COASTAL ROAD
CONTOUR LINES IN m
BONJUL    .         .              I J
ihe boundaries tIeh,,? OK tit  map do not               | 
-ply  endor-e-ent .r acceptance by  the ,                         Ii
WId SRkanAand it affliatets
--                   S~~~~~~~ALI IJI.:r.I~R AL
;ALI 1.Pl:
-~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I
!lP .               L -
'.ILI  TIqc  EE
i^LI F ;,rt ,ui.#vL~~ME~~RS 



:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t'  -, F- 
|PETITE COTE TOURISM\R PROJECT
.-  EE Er C .uil
*~~~~.     / 1..l 
I~~~~~ .. :. .e 
I~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~  _  __
I..    I ... .-
I -  F   x   -  -- __   . _     d  -  *. -



