Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1266-SE
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
SENEGAL
April 12, 1977
Tourism Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SE 'EGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Senegal:  July 1 - June 30
SAPCO: January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:  Franc
US$1.00 = CFAF 245
CFAF 1.00 = US$.004
WEIGHTS A1iD MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)            =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)   =        10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)             35.29 c.ubic feet (cu ft)
1 millimeter (mm)      =        0.04 inches (in)
1 hectare (ha)         =        2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)       =        0.62 miles (mi)
ABBREVJIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGT          Délégation Géné.rale au Tourisme
DUH          Direction de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
MDRH         Minist-re du Deéveloppement Rural et de
l'Hydraulique
MTPUT        Ministère des Travaux Publics, de l'Urbanisme
et des Transports
OPT          Office des Postes et Télécommunications
SAPCO        Socie'të d'Amenagement de la Petite Cote
SENELEC      Société; Se'négalaise de Distribution d'Energie
Electrique
SOFISEDIT   Société Financiere Sénégalaise pour le
Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme
SONEES       Sociéteé Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du
Sénegal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
SENEGAL
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTION  AND  SUMMARY .....................................                                         i-xvi
I. THE TOURISM SECTOR ...........................................                                                1
II. THE PROJECT ..................................................                                                5
A.  Project Background ...................................                                           5
B.  Project Description ...................................                                          8
III. IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................    13
A.  Sali Portudal Development ............................    13
B.  M'Bour Telephone Exchange ............................    16
C.  Gorée Renovation .....................................    16
D.  Technical Assistance and Studies .....................    18
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .................................    18
A.  Project Costs ........................................                                          18
B.  Financing and Lending Arrangements ...................    23
C.  Procurement ..........................................-                                        23
D.  Disbursements ......... ...............................    25
V. ACCOMMODATION AND MARKET PROSPECTS ............................    26
A.  Accommodation Development ............................    26
B.  Market Prospects .....................................    28
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS ......................-. 31
A.  Income Statement of the Pilot Hotel ..................    32
B.  Financial Analysis of SAPCO ..........................    36
C.  Income Statement for the Water and Sewerage                                                    42
5CCmLl,,nrents ...................................                             42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk authofizasion.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION ........................................    44
A.  Benefits of Tourist Activities ........................    44
B.  Distribution of Project Benefits .......................    50
C.  Balanice of Payments ....................................    51
D. Employment Effects .......................-.--.                 52
VIII. SOCIAL IMPACT ..................................................    53
IX- AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................    54
APPENDIX - Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
MAPS
IBRD 12033
IBRD 12034
This report is based on the f indings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. Bauer, Brizzi, BenbraLhim and Coe and Kuskowski (consultants).



SENEGAL
PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY
THE TOURISM SECTOR
'.        Senegal's tourism assets include a pleasant climate for most of
the year, particularly during the European winter; attractive beaches on the
Atlantic Ocean south of the Cap Vert peninsula; well preserved monuments
from  its colonial past at the town of St. Louis, as well as on the island of
Goree in Dakar harbor which from the 17th century was a center of slave
trade from West Africa to the Americas; an interesting cultural life in the
capital city of Dakar; colorful national parks; and a rich folklore. With
its excellent international airport at Dakar (recently modernized under a
Bank-financed project), and strategic location on the Europe-North Africa-
Anerica air routes, the country has begun to realize the possibilities for
growth in the sector. Nevertheless, the multi-faceted tourism potential
reinains largely untapped.
2.         Prior to 1973, hotel capacity was concentrated in the Dakar area and
other urban centers, and accommodation (totalling about 1,400 beds) consisted
chiefly of small establishments catering almost exclusively to business
traffic. Since then, however, in response to vigorous Government policies to
develop facilities for vacation tourism, hotel capacity tripled over 1973-75;
two-thirds of the additional capacity was in large hotels in Dakar, with the
remainder in vacation villages on the Petite Cote and Casamance beach areas to
the south. Most of the hotels are of high standard, and luxury establishments
account for over half of total capacity.
3.        About one-half of the new hotel capacity added since 1973 has
been f inanced by the Government, and the remainder about equally by local
and foreign private investors. Privately-owned hotels have been financed
by short- and medium-term Ioans which were readily available from local
commercial banks, and long-term credit from abroad. The supply of long- and
medium-term hotel credit is improving following the establishment in late
1974 of the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Indus-
trie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) with Bank Group support (Loan 987-SE, US$3
million). Larger hotel construction projects can also obtain long-term funds
locally from the newly established alfiliate of Citibank (US) and from the
Banque Senegalo-Koweitienne, though on terms slightly less attractive than
those o'L- SOFISEDIT. Additionally, following changes in the regulations of
the West African Central Bank in January 1976, medium-term funds for projects
in priority sectors (including tourism) are now available from local commer-
cial banks using the Central Bank's rediscounting facilities.



-- ii -
4.         Concurrent with the expansion and diversification of hotel capa-
city, visitor arrivals more than doubled and registered bed-nights almost
tripled over the period 1972-75. Almost three-quarters of total arrivals
(about 129,000 iri 1975) come from Western European countries, and a Large
proportion belong to higher-income segments of the population. While an
increasing number of visitors are attracted by the country's climate, culture,
and wildlife, business stiLl remains a major motivation for travel to Senegal.
Because of the continuing importance of business travel, traffic shows little
seasonal fluctuat:ion.
5.         It is significant that tourist arrivals in Senegal increased
14% in 1975 compared with a 3% decrease worldwide. Arrivals are projected to
continue increasing by 6% annually, a forecast which is considered reasonable
in relation to past growth trends for world tourism (7% per year from 1965-75),
for tourism in all of Africa (11% per year from 1966-75), and in Wesit Africa
(16% per year from 1972-75). Like most French-speaking countries in West
Africa, however, Senegal is a relatively high-priced destination which depends
largely on the French market (almost 40% of total arrivals); but at present
only charter flights from ',witzerland and Germany are allowed on a regular
basis.  In an attempt to diversify the tourist market and enhance price
competitiveness, the Government has agreed to follow as liberal a policy as
possible within the limitat-ions of its existing international agreements on
air transport, so as to permit before June 30, 1980, air charter traiEfic to
Dakar to the extent needed by f ull-scale operations at the site of the proposed
project at Sali Portudal.
6.         The rapid growth in visitor arrivals during 1972-75 is reflected
in increased gross foreign exchange receipts from tourism which more than
tripled over the period, reaching in 1975 CFAF 6 billion (US$26 milliLon),
equivalent to about 6% of the country's foreign exchange earnings from
commodity exports in that year; present forecasts indicate that by 1980 this
proportion would increase to almost 10%.  Tourism is now Senegal's third
source of foreign exchange, after groundnuts and phosphates. Net foreign
exchange revenues from tourism are estimated at about 60-65% of gross
receipts. About 2,800 Senegalese are employed directly in the hotel industry;
a further 5,500 jobs indirectly attributable to the tourism sector irnvolve
the production and sale of handicrafts, as well as services in agriculture,
construction, and transport.
7.         Tourism is one of the few modern sectors in which a country like
Senegai with relatively few natural resources can hope to expand in the
future.  The Government has however only recently started to give consider-
ation to the potential 'benelFits of tourism, and the 1973-77 Five-Year Plan
;o -½ ;:.eirst ti.me accorded aigh priority to Qeve'lopment of the sector.
i'ian f Iestations of ,hi s new priority included:  (i) active Government parti-
.pation in hinancing hotel construction; (ii) the creation in 1971 of a
speciai agency, tne Delegation Generale au Tourisme (DGT) reporting directly
to che Prime Minister, to be responsible for planning, promotion, and train-
ing in the sector; and (iii) restructuring of the Investment Code in 1972
to provide a number of incentives which may be granted to investors in all



sectors (e.g. exemptions from customs duties and taxes), and special incen-
tives available to hotel investors in certain circumstances (e.g. exemptions
from income taxes up to eight years and from sales taxes up to five years;
use of Goverament land at no cost; power and water at preferential rates; and
Government participation in infrastructure financing). In practice, however,
incentives have been granted sparingly. While investors usually obtain
most forms of fiscal relief, no other incentive specific to private tourism
investment has ever been granted.
8.        Although primarily as a result of the above measures tourism
development has been rapid, the growth has been somewhat haphazard, and the
Government is now committed to strengthening management of the sector.
Under the proposed project, an Economic Analysis and Planning Unit will be
established within DGT to carry out in-depth analyses of projects for which
incentives are sought, and the Government will then limit its incentives to
those projects which have been recommended by the Unit as being economically,
financially, and technically viable. The Governnent also plans to increase
DGT's budget allocation for overseas promotion, and the proposed project
provides for preparation and implementation, in consultation with the Bank, of
a marketing program designed to consolidate Senegal's existing tourist markets
and to develop new ones.
9.        Organization and supervision of hotel training is the responsibility
of DGT. Middle-level courses are provided at the Ecole Nationale de Formation
Hoteliere in Dakar which graduates about 100 students annually.  This level of
output is inadequate to meet the staffing needs of newly constructed and
planned hotels, but improvement is expected following construction of the
hotel training center under the Bank's Second Education Project which would
provide additional middle-level training, as well as refresher courses and
seminars for management personnel. The proposed project includes provision
for the technical assistance required to design and develop appropriate
training programs.
10.       As regards public investment in the sector, separate corporations
had been established for each of the four existing hotels and four hotel
projects in which the Government has an interest. As tourism development
continues, however, the number of autonomous hotel companies has diluted
Government control of its investments and permitted indiscriminate investment
whenever foreign funds are available. The Government is now committed to
coordinate its existing tourism holdings in the framework of a proposed
generai reorganization of public sector investments, and is planning to
establish a single hotel holding company which would allow effective control
and rational allocation of resources. The precise steps to be taken to
improve Government control of its existing tourism portfolio will be defined
during preparation and appraisal of a proposed technical assistance project
for restructuring and strengthening of the para-public sector.
11.       As far as the physical alternatives for tourism development in
Senega'l are concerned, investors' interest is strongest in beach areas on
the Petite Cote and in Casamance, where lack of infrastructure has so far



- iv -
limited activity. The Government now proposes to develop integrated tourist
resorts so as to reduce the costs of providing infrastructure, as well as to
avoid the environmental deterioration which would be inevitable if development
were haphazard. The Petite Cote is being given first priority primarily
because of its proximity to existing infrastructure, particularly the Dakar
Airport, and its natural attractiveness. A master plan for the Petite Cote
completed in 1974 identified five areas suitable for international tourism
development, and proposed a land-use plan on the basis of which the present
project has been prepared, and which can also serve as a master plan for
further development.
THE PROJECT
Background
12.       In 1973, the Senegalese Government requested Bank assistance to help
finance infrastructure for the development of tourism on the Petite Cote;
in December 1974, the Sali Portudal area was selected as the site for a
first project. The related feasibility study was carried out by consultants
Louis Berger International with financing from the United Nations Develop-
ment Programme (UNDP) and with the Bank as executing agency. In August 1975,
the Government established the Societe Nationale d'Amenagement de la Petite
Cote (SAPCO), a mixed company (owned 90% by the Government and 10% by
SOFISEDIT) for the purpose of preparing and implementing tourism projects
on the Petite Cote.
13.       The Pet.ite Cote is a beach area dotted with picturesque fis'hing
villages stretching over 100 km south of Dakar.  The major town is M'Bour, a
trading and fishirig center of about 30,000 inhabitants, located about 80 km
from Dakar. The area enjoys a mild semi-tropical climate, with warm days and
cool nights during most of the year. The surf is mild, and swimming ,conditions
are generally excellent, although the water is relatively cool in the late
winter months.  The coastal waters provide good opportunities for deep-sea
fishing.
14.       Two vacation villages already established in the Petite Cotes
area have been successful and achieved high occupancy rates.  The consultants'
study recommended that tourism development continue with a site along the
beach near the village of Sali Portudal, about 4 km north of M'Bour. The
physical characteristics of the site and its proximity to M'Bour and to
existing infrastructure make it a logical first phase for the long-term
development program of the Petite Cote. The development plan for the resort
proposes two hotel zones, of about 2,500 beds each, on either side of the
village of Sali Portudal. The hoteis are centered in a landscaped area
where administration, commercial, recreational and sports facilities would
aiso be located. An area would be reserved for extension of the village
wnere some hotel employees would live.  The proposed project will provide
infrastructure for development of the first hotel zone and for the village



extension.  The decision to develop the second zone will be taken only after
development of the first zone has proved the market, and additional financing
has been obtained. Development of *he entire Sali Portudal area will be based
on a land-use plan (plan d'amenagement) now being considered by the Senegalese
authorities; enactment of this plan is a ccndition of effectiveness of the
proposed Loan.
15.       The Sali land will be made available to the Government by SAPCO, and
then leased - except for the village site - to SAPCO under a "convention
generale", the terms and conditions of which have been discussed and agreed in
principle with the Bank. The promulgation of a decree initiating procedures
for registration of the Sali Portudal land, and signing of the "convention
generale" with provisions satisfactory to the Bank, are conditions of effec-
tiveness of the proposed Loan. Once the land is registered, it will be leased
to SAPCO under a long-term lease; in the meantime, SAPCO will have the use of
the land for project construction and for making it available to developers of
tourism investments.
16.       An important tourist attraction for which improvements are provided
under the proposed project is the small island of Goree in Dakar Bay which,
since the 15th century, has been occupied successively by the Portuguese,
Dutch, English, and French, and was a center for slave trade to the Americas.
Goree has retained the atmosphere of an 18th century colonial town, boasts a
number of architecturally interesting buildings (including slave houses), and
has become both an invaluable historic landmark and a cultural symbol. How-
ever, many of the buildings are deteriorating rapidly. A study for the
renovation of Goree, sponsored by Unesco in 1975, identified a program of
works to preserve the buildings and enhance the island's unique atmosphere.
The proposed project component will contribute to the Government's ongoing
program for preservation of Goree Island and its development as a tourist
site.
Project Description
17.       The proposed project consists of three major components:  (i) in-
frastructure and common facilities for development of the first hotel zone
at Sali Portudal, including construction of a 250 bed pilot hotel, and a new
telephone exchange at M'Bour; (ii) renovation on Goree Island; and (iii) funds
for project administration, technical assistance, and studies.
18.       The Sali Portudal component includes:
-   an access road linking the project site to the Dakar-
M'Bour highway, plus secondary roads and streets in
the project area, parking facilities, and public
street lighting;
-   a sewerage system to serve the resort and the village
extension, consisting of a collection system, pumping
station and stabilization ponds, as well as a stormwater
drainage system;



a water supply network to pump water from two bore-
holes to the resort and four villages nearby;
a power system linked to M'Bour to supply the resort and
the village of SaLi Portudal. A standby power system
will provide emergency service;
a telecommunications system in the resort linked to the
telephone exchange in M'Bour;
extensive landscaping and reforestation;
a sanitary landfill for collecting and treating solid waste;
provision of common facilities including commercial, sports,
and recreational facilities, and buildings for maintenance,
administration (including post office, police, and first aid
services), and for the use of SAPCO staff and equipment;
construction of a 250-bed, three-star category pilot hotel,
intendedl to demonstrate to the private sector the potential
for hotel developmnent, and to set architectural and design
standards for other hotels in the Petite Cote development.
an irrigated area of 20 ha which will use the
effluent of the stabilization ponds to grow fruit and
vegetables for the resort, and will provide employment
for about 40 fami]Lies;
-   a new 500-line te]Lephone exchange at M'Bour.
The Goree component includes:
-   upgrading the street system and public areas;
-   rehabilitation of the harbor to accommodate 10-15
pleasure boats filtted for deep-sea fishing;
-   extension and renovation of the Goverrment-owned
Hotel Relais de l"Espadon.
The proposed Loans also provide funds for:
-   project administration, to cover the foreign exchange
cost of personnel, equipment, and materials required for
SAPCO's operations during project implementation; and
to help SAPCO finance a campaign for promotion of hotel
investments;
-   technica!l assistance to support DGT in establishment
of the proposed Economic Analysis and Planning Unit,
includin,g funds for four fellowships to allow overseas



- vii -
training of counterpart staff; to help prepare and
implement a marketing program for the entire country,
including proposals for promnoting the Hotel Relais de
l'Espadon; and to design and develop appropriate trainirg
programs for the Hotel/Tourism Trainîng Center at Dakar,
including nine fellowships for overseas training of
counterpart staff.
-   consulting services to monitor the socio-economic impact
of tourism development on the Petite Cote, and to prepare
a second tourism project.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
19.       The total estimated cost of the project (net of taxes and duties
and including contingencies) is US$17.3 million equivalent; foreign exchange
costs are estimated at US$12.3 million (about 71%). Cost estimates are summar-
ized below:
… --   US$ Million -----          % of Total
Local     Foreign      Total      Expenditure
Sali Portudal
Infrastructure                 1,213.2    3,611.3    4,824.5         27.8
Common Facilities                420.0      845.9    1,265.9          7.2
Pilot Hotel                      893.3    1,902.9    2,796.2         16.2
Irrigated Area                    40.0      110.8       150.8         0.9
M'Bour Telephone Exchange          101.8       238.0      339.8         2.1
Goree Renovation                   586.8      933.0    1,519.8          8.7
Project Administration             206.9      297.5       504.4         2.9
Technical Assistance & Studies   163.3    1,160.0    1,323.3            7.6
Base Line Cost                 3,625.3    9,099.4   12,724.7         72.3
Contingencies
Physïcal                         314.2      692.6    1,005.8          5.8
Prices                         1,088.2    2,536.5    3,624.7         20.9
1,401.4    3,229.1    4,630.5         26.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST               5,026.7   12,328.5   17,355.2        100.0
20.       Tne above costs are derived from consultants' estimates (adjusted
to account for price changes since June 1975) and revised by the appraisal
mission. Physical contingencies averaging 10% have been allowed for civil



- viii -
works and equipment in Sali Portudal, since most of the cost estimates are
based on advanced engineering; physical contingencies for the Goree works
have been assumed at 15% sirLce it is more difficult to give precise es;timates
for renovation. Price contingencies have been applied at an average of
12-13% annually for civil works, and 8-9% annually for equipment. Costs
for consulting and technical assistance services totalling about 50 man-years
have been estimated at an average of approximately US$5,500 per man-month.
21.        The proposed Loans will finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project (US$12.3 million) as well as estimated interest during construction
(US$1.3 million);  provision for the latter has been included because SAPCO
mill not begin earning substantial revenues' until about three years after
completion of the infrastruc:ture works.  The Loans also include US$300,000 in
retroactive financing to coNrer foreign costs of SAPCO's expatriate staff after
February 1, 1976, as well as of detailed planning and engineering studies and
some preliminary infrastructure (e.g. a borehole and landscaping) expected to
be undertaken before signing. The estimated foreign exchange costs required
to continue the above works and services until the expected date of Loan
effectiveness (October 1977) will be financed by an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility of up to $300,000.  The Governmnent will finance all local
costs.
22.        The Loans will be made to the Senegalese Government.  Funds ear-
marked for the Sali Portudal infrastructure, (except for the water ancd
sewerage component, para 35), common facilities, pilot hotel, and project
administration (US$8.2 milliLon) will be re-lent to SAPCO on the same t:erms as
the conventional Bank Loan tnder a subsidiary Loan Agreement between SAPCO
and the Government satisfactory to the Bank; the Government will bear the
foreign exchange risk.   Signing of this agreement, the provisions of which
have been discussed and agreed with the Bank, will be a condition of Loan
effectiveness. The remainder of SAPCO's financing will be provided b, an
equity contribution of CFAF 350 million and a complementary subordinated
Government loan of CFAF 600 million. A condition of Loan effectiveness is the
increase of SAPCO's subscribed equity by CFAF 350 million, and the paying in
of the first installment of CFAF 87.5 million. Further installments will be
paid in successive years according to an agreed time-table.
23.        Since the investment in replacement of the M'Bour telephone exchange
will upgrade the n,ational netowrk and benefit the M'Bour region in general,
the financial responsibility for this component of the project rests with the
Office des Postes et Telecoramunications (OPT).  Funds needed for the proposed
works (US$0.3 million) will be re-lent to OPT on the same terms as the con-
ventional Bank LoaLn, under a subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and OPT satisfactory to the Bank; conclusion of the agreement, the provisions
of which have beern discussed and agreed with the Bank, will be a condition of
disbursement of funrds for this project component.  OPT will finance tlhe related
local costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
24.        Major civil works and equipment contracts will be awarded follow-
ing international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank



- ixy -
guidelines. In order to encourage such competitive bidding, project items
will be grouped to the extent possible. In order to permit smaller local
contractors to tender for work of a size within their capacity and at the
same time to attract foreign bidders, civil works contracts will be tendered
either individually or combîned into bidding grcups at the bidder's option.
In evaluating international bids for purchasing equipment and some building
materials, Senegalese manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of
15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports, or the prevailing level of
customs duties, whichever is lower. Civil works contracts up to US$200,000
equivalent, and equipment and materials contracts up to US$50,000 equivalent,
will be advertised locally and awarded in accordance with procedures for
competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank, provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the equivalent of US$1
million. All consultants and technical assistance experts will be employed in
agreement with, and under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
25.       The proposed Loans will be disbursed pari passu in a 6:4 ratio,
and will meet the following costs: (i) 65% of total expenditures (net of
taxes) for civil works; (ii) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of
the ex-factory cost of locally produced goods procured through international
competitive bidding, and 75% of the cost of other locally procured items;
(iii) 100% of foreign costs of consulting and technical assistance services;
and (iv) 100% of interest during construction payable on each Loan.
Project Implementation
Sali Portudal
26.       SAPCO will have primary responsibility for implementing the Sali
Portudal works. SAPCO is a corporation subject to commercial law, and it
enjoys the flexibility needed for timely completion of the project. All
infrastructure and building works will be carried out by contractors. SAPCO
will conduct the detailed planning studies, supervise final engineering,
and coordinate the implementation of all construction work in Sali Portudal.
In particular, SAPCO will implement the water component on behalf of the
Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Hydraulique (MDRH), and the sewerage
component on behalf of the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Urbanisme,
et des Transports; the conditions under which SAPCO will implement the water/
sewerage component on behalf of the Governinent will be spelled out in the
convention generale. SAPCO will employ engineering consultants and architects
acceptable to the Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
to prepare the final design and supervise the work at Sali Portudal. SAPCO
has agreed to prepare a critical path network of all project works by April 1,
1978, and to review this network every six months in consultation and agreement
with the Bank.
27.       For design and construction of the water and sewerage systems, SAPCO
will be assisted by the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation des Eaux du Senegal
(SONEES); for electric power by the Societe Senegalaise d'Electricite (SENELEC);



-  x -
for telecommunications systems by OPT; and for irrigation by MDRH. Drafts of
agreements between SAPCO and each of the above agencies defining the latter's
respective financial and technical responsibilities have been discussed and
agreed in principle with the Bank.  A condition of Loan effectiveness will be
the signing of these agreements with provisions satisfactory to the Bîank. Once
the above facilities are implemented, the ownership and responsibility for
operation and mairLtenance of the electricity and telecommunications components
will be transferred at no ciDst to SENELEC and OPT respectively; SONEES will
run the water and sewerage systems which will be the property of the Government
(para. 35). These agencies are all adequately organized and managed to carry
out their tasks. SAPCO's management of the irrigated area will be supervised
by MDRH.
28.       On completion of the Sali Portudal development, the land and common
facilities will be leased by SAPCO to private investors at market prices
(see para. 35). Leases will be subject to regulations (cahier des charges)
reflecting provisions of the development plan regarding architectural and
landscaping norms, and spelling out investors' obligations on service and
maintenance standards. Approval by SAPCO of regulations incorporating these
provisions is a condition of Loan effectiveness. The question of management
of the pilot hotel has been discussed with the Government, and several alterna-
tives are possible. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loans is the
selection of suitable management on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
29.       SAPCO's responsibilities will evolve over the period of project
implementation. During the initial years, its functions will be primarily
those of a builder; on completion of the infrastructure, its commercial
functions will become predominant, and its staffing pattern will be modified
to reflect this shift in emphasis. SAPCO's Technical Department, will be
responsible for implementation of project works, and for the operation and
maintenance of common facilities and of components which will not be turned
over to the utility companies.  The Technical Department is headed by an
experienced engineer assisted by an architect advisor, both of whom have been
appointed in consultation and agreement with the Bank. SAPCO's Commercial
Department would gradually assume wider responsibilities in promoting and
administering the leasing of hotel sites and common faciilities. The Director
of the Commercial Department is the former team leader of the UNDP-financed
feasibility study who was sielected for this post in agreement with the Bank.
All the senior staff of SAPCO are considered to have the qualifications and
experience necessary to assure efficient implementation of the proposed
project. The Government and SAPCO have agreed to consult with the Bank on
any proposals to replace SAPCO's President, to change its organization, or to
fill its top-level positions should they become vacant.
Other Project Components
30.       Implemenitation of project items outside Sali Portudal will be the
responsibility of separate agencies as follows:  (i) construction, operation,



- xi -
and maintenance of the M'Bour telephone exchange will be undertaken by OPT.
(ii) the Goree works will be executed by the Direction de l'Urbanisme et de
l'Habitat (DUH) within the Ministere des Travaux Publics, de l'Urbanisme, et
des Transports. DUH will establish a special unit to supervise the final
studies, issue tender documents, evaluate bids, and supervise implementation
of the works. A condition of disbursing Loan funds earmarked for the Goree
renovation is the appointment to this special unit of an architect acceptable
to the Bank. A condition of disbursement of funds for work on the Hotel
Relais de l'Espadon is Bank approval of a marketing program for the hotel
which will be prepared by DGT under the present project as part of a larger
program for the entire country. (iii) Technical assistance and studies
financed under the project (except for the investment promotion study to be
carried out by SAPCO) will be the responsibility of the Delegation Generale au
Tourisme which will employ the necessary expert staff acceptable to and in
consultation with the Bank.
31.       The entire project will take about three years to implement.  Final
design for the infrastructure, common facilities, and the pilot hotel will be
completed by December 1977. Construction is planned to start by March 1978
and be completed by June 1980.
Market Prospects for Sali Portudal Development
32.       Under the planned construction schedule, the first hotel beds
will come into operation in 1978/79, and it is hoped that the full complement
of 2,500 beds will be available by 1983. There is strong investor interest in
the area, and SAPCO has already received requests from both local and foreign
hotel promoters. The project is expected to be attractive to investors who
will be provided with long-term leases at reasonable terms, and who can count
an efficient utilities and on the availability of common facilities. In order
to help ensure an adequate supply of long-term loan funds, the Government has
agreed to make available the necessary complementary debt financing should
funds for hotel credit from SOFISEDIT and other national and foreign institu-
tions fall short of requirements. The "convention generale" will spell out
the incentives guaranteed to investors in Sali Portudal. In order to ensure
that the development remains attractive vis-a-vis other tourism areas in the
country, the Government has agreed (a) to suspend authorizations of new hotel
investments on the Petite Cote outside of Sali Portudal until the planned
accommodation build-up under the proposed project is completed; (b) not to
grant hotel investors elsewhere in Senegal more favorable incentives than
those included in the "convention generale"; and (c) to set lease rents for
hotel sites elsewhere in the country at levels comparable to those in Sali
Portudal.
33.       To guarantee completion of the Sali Portudal development after
the infrastructure investment has been made, the Government has provided



- xii -
ass:uranc`es: that it will take appropriate measures to ensure that sufficient
hotel beds wil,i be in operation by 1985 to attain an acceptable.rate of
return on infrastriucture outlays, unless.the,Bank and the Government agree
otherwise because of inadequacy o,f the potential market.
Environmenta1 Impact       --
34.    .  Development of the ,resort 'has been,designed to avoid environmental
deterioration. -:The-naturalfeatures of the site would,.be.protected by condi-
tions in,the development plan which -impose limits on the deigsity and height of
buildings.- The proposed. reforestation of wide areas around th.esite vould
enhance:the existing landscape,and protect the-hotel sites from.prevaiiing
winds.  The.resort area would be suppiied with ail infrastructure (e.g.; sewage
collection. and treatment systemi soiid wvaste collection and disposal) required
to avoid detrimential effects of large numbers of people on the environnent.
Financial Justification
35.       As-.the.developér of-the proposed tourist facilities at Sali Portudal,
SAPCO will be financially responsible for the investments there.except for
water supply and sewerage systems which will be the responsibility of the
Government.  The water and sewerage component  will yield,a financial rate of
return of at least 9% starting in FY 84; the return reflects the fact that the
hotels subsidize use by the viliajgers who account for about 35% of total con-
sumption.  The Government has agre:ed thai::the operating agency Societe
Nationale d'Exploitation:des Eaux-du,Senegal (SONEES) will set water aLnd
sewerage charges at levels wrhich will allow it to earn a return of 8% on net
water and sewerage proj.ect:assets in:operation starting in FY86.. The exten-
sions to the power supply.and telecommunications systems will be transfered at
no cost to the respective utility companies for operation, and SAPC0 will
recoup investment costs of these:components by incorporating such costs in the
charges for leasing land.  SAPCO will prepare and discuss with the Bank by
December 31, 1978 the methodology for calculating leases and service charges.
For analytical purposes, iand leases are assumed at CFAF 40,000 or US$163 per
bed per year, and the service charge at CFAF 250 or US$1.0 per bednight; these
rates are comparable to those prevail.ing in competing destinations.
36.       SAPCO's financia1.objectives will be to r.ecover its investméent costs
in infrastructure.and' common ,facilities, to earn a satisfactory rate of return
on its investments, And to:maintain adequate debt service coverage.  The Gov-
ernment has -agreed ,that, from FY 86,,SAPCO will earn a rate of return on
properly'valued net .asse.ts i.n operation of not,less than 8% in order to have
sufficient debt service and interest coverages.  In fact, income projections
show that these objectives would be achieved by 1983 when the project"wou1d be
fully operationaI,;:a:t which.time the retu-rn,on-net assets,would be about 11%.
Projected: balance sheets show a satisfactory.position in 1985 when it vill be
possible to start reimbursing the complementary Government loan (para. 40).



The GovernmenE has agreed that SAPCO will not pay dividends if such payment
would reduce its working capital to less than 1.5 times its debt due the
following year. SAPCO has provided assurances that, in order to preserve a
good financial position, it will not incur further debt without Bank approval
unless its current revenues are sufficient to cover future debt service at
least 1.5 times.
37.       A detailed financial analysis was carried out for the pilot hotel
whose operations are expected to be representative of superstructure operations
at Sali Portudal. Income projections show that the pilot hotel will reach a
steady gross operating profit of 23% of gross revenues after the second year
of operation. The financial rate of return on the investment in the pilot
hotel will be 9%. The return on equity will vary between 7.6% and 14.8%
depending on whether management of the hotel is entrusted to an individual or
to a company. These figures are indicative of the returns which can be
expected by investors, whose return on equity will also depend on the terms on
which they get long-term financing. A sensitivity analysis shows that financial
returns in constant terms both on the overall investment and on equity are
particularly sensitive to changes in hotel occupancy rates and tariffs. Thus
a significant decrease in either of these determinants of hotel revenues could
lead to returns unattractive to investors, a situation which might occur if
demand did not keep pace with the proposed development of accommodation
capacity. In order to reduce the risk that this situation occurs, the Govern-
ment has agreed not to grant incentives to any competing new hotel development
which might jeopardize the financial viability of the proposed development in
Sali Portudal. As its initial task, the Economic Analysis and Planning Unit
will, in consultation with the Bank, establish the criteria that will be used
to determine whether competing projects jeopardize the viability of the Sali
development.
Economic Justification
38.       The proposed project has been designed to provide basic infrastruc-
ture and other facilities required to support a major tourism development.
The investment program analyzed includes items to be financed under the
project (infrastructure, common facilities, pilot hotel, irrigation, and
renovation on Goree island), as weîl as related superstructure facilities
(e.g. hotels, shops) which are expected to be developed by the private
sector to serve visitors to Sali Portudal. The total cost of the investment
package -s estimated at US$48.2 million in 1976 prices.
39.       The gross benefits to the economy resulting from the project
would be the expenditures of tourists attracted to the Sali Portudal resort.
The project is expected to attract new beach-motivated traffic without
diverting cuscomers from existing hotel capacity.  Consequently, the gross
benefits would be incremental to Senegal as a whole. Benefits expected ta
be generated by the investment in Goree have been taken into account only to
the extent that they appear in the projected expenditures of Sali Portudal
visitors; even using this conservative approach, the proposed investment



- xSiv -
would yield a sati'sfactory rate of return. Nonetheless, the major justi-
fication for the investment in Goree is the preservation of an area of
cultural and historical importance which plays a signiificant role in en-
hancing Senegal's attractiveness as a tourist destination. Benefits asso-
ciated with the irrigation component and the provision of utilities to
neighboring villages are minor and have not been quantified.  Given tlhe
extent of unemployment and underemployment existing on the Petite Cotes, the
shadow wage rate of labor has been assumed at 50% of wages received by the
unskilled labor force in the project hotels.
40.       On the basis of an estimated 30-year life for the project, the
economic return is expected to be almost 16%.  This return is sensitive to
changes in investment costs, gross operating profits, the timing of hotel
development, the level of hotel receipts, and shadow pricing of foreign
exchange. A sensitivity anailysis shows that under assumptions where invest-
ment costs increased by 20% or hotel development takes 15 years rather than
the 5 years forecaLst, the economic return on the project declines to about
13% which remains satisfactory.
41.       The principal beneficiaries of the project are expected to be:
(i) the Government, which would receive direct earnings through SAPCO, sales
taxes on tourist expenditures, as well as income taxes from firms and indivi-
duals engaged directly in the sector; (ii) the workers employed in tourism
activities who would benefit primarily from the higher wage levels offered in
the tourist sector; (iii) the residents of nearby villages, including people
not directly involved in tourism activities, who would benefit from iraproved
public utilities to be prov:ided as well as from the irrigation componrent; and
(iv) private investors in hotels and related tourism facilities (e.g. shops,
and restaurants). Distribution of the benefits directly generated by the
Sali Portudal development are estimated to be approximately as follows:
Government (either directly or through SAPCO), 43%; hotels, 37%; other private
(including common facilities in the resort area, plus other facilities
outside such as shops, taxis, etc), 20%.
.42.       Direct employment generated by project hotels and commercia]L
tourist activities is expected to total over 1,200 by 1986 when all planned
accommodation would be fully operational.  Indirect employment in construc-
tion works, handicrafts, agriculture, and other services is likely to
account for an additional 2,000 jobs. Net incremental foreign exchange
earnings genaratad by the project are estimated at about US$15 million per
year in 1986.
43.       Additionally, the project is expected tp provide major benefits
in institution-building which, although extremely important, cannot bta
quantified. These benefits include: (i) a more rational development of the
tourism sector through establishment of the Economic Analysis and Planning



- xv -
Unit (EAPU); (iî) improved organization and operation of existing tourism
investments through management advice to be provided by EAPU; and (iii) the
assurance of orderly development of tourism on the Petite Cote (especially
with regard to design, layout, and environmental standards) which will be the
responsibility of SAPCO following completion of the project infrastructure
works.
Social Impact
44.       The proposed project includes a number of works which are specifi-
cally directed to improving living conditions of the population in the Sali
Portudal area; these include free water supply for neighboring villages,
sites and services for expansion of Sali Portudal, and irrigation of 20 ha of
land for cultivation of fruit and vegetables which would provide employment
opportunities for about 40 farm families.
45.       The project is not expected to have any significant psychological
or social cost. Experience derived from the operation of existing tourist
villages suggests that the influx of foreign visitors would be welcomed
by the Senegalese who have a reputation for hospitality and friendliness.
Local workers would live in M'Bour, a spontaneously growing city, rather
than being restricted to a 'company town'. Since M'Bour is within easy
reach of the resort area (about 4 km), it is expected to provide a popular
excursion for visitors who would have an opportunity to participate in some
aspects of Senegalese life. Tourism development in Sali Portudal, far from
disrupting traditional activities in the area, is expected to improve living
opportunities for the village population by providing an expanding market
for food and fish production. SAPCO would promote food cultivation near the
project site, and would assist local farmers and fishermen in marketing
their products.
46.       Since it is considered important that the Government be alert
to any possible social problems which could arise around the resort area,
the proposed project provides for the services of a sociologist who would
monitor the project's impact on the social fabric of the M'Bour area, and
advise DGT and SAPCO on measures required to ensure that, to the extent
possible, contacts between the local population and the tourists would be
based on understanding and mutual respect.
Project Risks
47.       The project is economically justified under a wide range of assump-
tions regarding the rate of accommodation buildup and tourist expenditures.
However, although the proposed works have been designed to make the project
area attractive to hotel investors, and although SAPCO will under-take strong
investment promotion efforts, there is still a risk that investors might not
be forthcoming in the numbers expected unless they have expectations of reason-
able financial returns on the Petite Cote as compared with investments else-
where. Thls risk will be reduced by proposed Government measures directed
toward: (a) stimulating tourist demand; and (b) preventing hotel over-capacity
in Senegal generally and on the Petite Cote in particular.



- xvi -
48.       As regards the former, the marketing program proposed under
the project would be aimed at consolidating existing tourist markets and
developing new ones; also, the Government has agreed to use its best efforts
to permit the development of air charter traffic to Dakar, and this is
expected to reduce the cost of packages to Senegal and make them attractive
to larger segments of the tourist market.
49.       The Government :is prepared to take appropriate measures to protect
its investment in the proposed project by refusing incentives to any competing
new hotel development which might jeopardize the financial viability of the
investment in Sali Portud;al; by not granting to hotel investors elsewhere in
Senegal incentives which are any more favorable than those offered for Sali
Portudal; by not: authorizing new hotel investment on the Petite Cote outside
of Sali Portudal until the planned accommodation build-up under the proposed
project is completed; and by setting lease rents for hotel sites elsewhere in
the country at levels comjparable to those in Sali Portudal.



I.  THE TOURISM SECTOR
1.01      Within five-seven hours' flight range from Europe and North
America, Senegal's tourism assets include a pleasant climate mosi- of the
year, particularly during winter; attractive beaches on the Atlantic south
of the Cap Vert peninsula; well-preserved monuments from its colonial past
in Gorée and St. Louis; Dakar, a fascinating capital with an active cul-
tural life; colorful national parks and the warmth and friendliness of the
Senegalese people.  This multifaceted tourism potential remains largely un-
tapped.
1.02      At the end of 1972, Senegal's accommodation capacity consisted
of 1,400 beds primarily in small establishments concentrated in Dakar and
other urban centers and catering almost exclusively to business traffic.
In response to vigorous Government policies to develop facilities for
vacation tourism, hotel capacity tripled between 1973 and 1975 with the com-
pletion of 2,800 beds.  Two-thirds of this additional capacity was in large
hotels in Dakar while the remainder was located in vacation villages on the
Petite Côte and Casamance beach areas. Thus, 68% of Senegal's current
capacity is in Dakar, 19% on the Petite Côte and 11% in Casamance. Most
hotels are of high standard with luxury establishments accounting for over
50% of the capacity. Only a few smaller hotels are managed by Senegalese.
103      The Government participated in the financing of about one-half of
the capacity added since 1973, the remainder being financed equally by
local and foreign private investors. Government hotel finance from the
national budget was complemented by French and Danish bilateral loans.
Privately-owned hotels have been financed mainly by short- and medium-term
loans readily available from local commercial banks. The supply of long-
and medium-term hotel credit was recently improved:  in late 1974 the Bank-
sponsored Sociêtê Financière Sénégalaise pour le Développement de l'Industrie
et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT) was established to provide financing for up to
18 years at 12%. 1/ Since SOFISEDIT's maximum exposure is 20% of its share
capital, its financing is limited at present to CFAF 130 million (about
US$530,000) per project, an amount adequate to cover no more than the long-
term loan capital requirement of a small hotel (about 100 beds). Larger
projects can also obtain long-term funds locally from the newly established
arfîliate of Citibank and from the Banque Senegalo-Koweitienne, though at
terms slightly less attractive than SOFISEDIT's. Following changes in
Central Bank regulations in January 1976, medium-term funds (maturities
of up to ten years at interest rates of 11%-13%) for projects in priority
sectors (including tourism) are available from commercial banks using the
rediscounting facilities of the Central Bank.
1.04      While room occupancy rates in Dakar average 75% annually, bed
occupancy rates average only 55% because the average room density is
1.5 persons per room as is to be expected when busîness travel predominates.
1/ Loan 987-SE and Loan 1332-SE.



-2-
Higher bed occupancy rates are attained at the Petite Cote and Casamance
vacation villages. The Aldiana vacation village on the Petite Cote owned
by the German tour operator Neckarmann achieved an average bed occupancy
rate of 65% in 1973 and 62% in 1974.
1.05      Concurrent with the expansion and diversification of capacity,
visitor arrivals more than doubled and registered bednights almost tripled
between 1972 and 1975. In 1975, arrivals amounted to 129,000 with 'Western
Europe accounting for almost three-fourths of total arrivals; France (37%),
Germany (12%), Italy (7%) and Switzerland (6%) were the leading markets.
A large proportion belonged to higher-income groups. Over 95% of visitors
arrived by plane, mostly o,n scheduled flights; only German and Swiss tour
operators were permitted to run charter flights on a regular basis.
1.06      While business remains a major motivation, an increasing number
of visitors are attracted lby Senegal's climate, culture and wildlife.
Because of the continued importance of business tourism, all traffic shows
little seasonal fluctuation except for some peaking in December and March
during the Christ-mas and Easter holidays. In 1975, arrivals in Senegal
during the June-September :low season amounted to 32% of the yearly total.
This compares to 28% in the Ivory Coast and less than 5% in The Gambia, two
major winter destinations in West Africa competing with Senegal.
1.07      In 1975, average daily tourist expenditures were estimated at
about CFAF 10,000; 70% wenit to accommodations and meals, 13% to entertain-
ment, 4% to local transporitation and 13% to purchases of sundries. Gross
foreign exchange receipts fErom tourists more than tripled from 1972 to
1975, reaching CEAF 6.0 bi:Llion or 6% of the country's foreign exchange carnings
from commodity exports that: year.  Tourism is the countrv's third source of
foreign exchange after groundnuts and phosphates.  Net foreign exchange
revenues from tourism are estimated at 60%-65% of gross receipts. About
2,800 people are employed directly in the tourism industry; 1,600 of these
work in four-five-star hotels. Jobs indirectly attributable to the tourism
sector are estimated at 5,500 in the production and sale of handicrafts,
agriculture, construction, transport and other services.
1.08      The Government of- Senegal, which had traditionally paid little
attention to tourism, has recently recognized the potential benefits of
the sector and accorded it high priority in the 1973-77 Five-Year Plan.
This was reflected in ambitious targets set in the Plan, calling for an
investment of CFAF 13 billiLon (US$53 million) for the construction of
10,000 additional beds. 1/ With a view toward achieving this target,
special provisions for hotel investors were introduced in the Investment
Code, the Government began participating actively in the construction of
hotels and a Délégation Générale au Tourisme (DGT), reporting directly to
the Prime Minister, was created to be responsible fot promotion, training
and sector planning.
1/ The Plan's physical targets have since been revised downwards to 8,100
additional beds at an iiivestment cost of CFAF 2 3 billion (US$92 million).



1.09      The lnvestment Code (Law No. 72-43) provides a number of incentives
which may be granted to investors in all sectors:
(a)  exemption from customs duties, excise and value-added taxes
on materials, equipment and services required for construc-
tion of the project; minor forms of fiscal relief;
(b) if the investment is greater than CFAF 500 million, stabil-
ization of taxation rates for a period of up to 20 years at
levels existing at the time incentives are granted.
In addition to these incentives available to all investors, hotel investors
may also benefit from:
(c)  exemption from income taxes up to eight years and from
patent and license fees;
(d) if investment exceeds CFAF 500 million and is located
outside the Dakar area, exemption from sales taxes for
the first five years of operation;
(e) Government land at no cost;
(f) power and water at preferential prices; and
(g)  Government participation in infrastructure financing.
An interministerial Incentives Committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance
and Economic Affairs and grouping representatives of relevant ministries and
other agencies, determines the incentives to be granted to each project on
the basis of a review focusing chiefly on technical and financial aspects.
In practice, the committee has granted incentives sparingly. While investors
usually obtain most forms of fiscal relief, and when they qualify, stabil-
ization of taxation, no incentive specific to tourism (free land, subsidized
utilities and free infrastructure) has ever been granted. By 1977, about
3,400 beds or 34% of the original Plan target will have been completed at
an investment cost of CFAF 12 billion (US$9 million).  This new capacity
will be concentrated in Dakar, since lack of infrastructure is constraining
hotel construction on the Petite Cote and in Casamance, the other two priority
areas for tourism development.
1.10      During the 1972-75 period, Government-sponsored investment in the
sector amounted to CFAF 5.65 billion (US$23 million). These investments
were channeled through separate corporations established for each project
by the Government and the private foreign sponsors who arranged foreign
long-term financing and obtained management contracts. Five other companies
have been established on the same pattern to sponsor further projects for
three large hotels in Dakar (1,800 beds), a vacation village in St. Louis



- 4 -
dI  Jli ht-j          i .j i  hi-i-tr  (o- C'te.  /     .i policy which, at the early stages,
'1>>1,i » Iy ' )ri'r r! i uts.J to hbotel tdelilinpment ln Senegal, should be recon-
sidered now that Senegal's tourism sector is past its infancy. The prolifer-
ation of autonomous Government hotel companies has diluted Government con-
trol of its investments and permitted indiscriminate investment whenever
foreign funds are available. The Government has committed itself to
coordinate its ex:isting tourism holdings in the framework of the general
reorganization of public sector investments.   In particular, the Govern-
ment proposes entrusting control of its tourism portfolio to a holding
companv.
1.11      DGT was established within the Prime Minister's Office in October
1971 and reorganized in April 1973. It is responsible for general promo-
tion, tourism training and sector planning. DGT's 1976 promotional budget
of about CFAF 50 million is divided between two headings: "Internai
Animation" and "Generic Promotion."  While the funds earmarked for sponsor-
ing internal sociaLl activities (e.g., Dakar's cultural week) have tripled
since 1973, funds for promotion abroad have decreased. As a result,
Senegal is poorly promoted even in its major markets.  The following table
summarizes the evolution of the DGT's budget since 1972:
Budget of the Déldgation Générale au Tourisme
(CFAF '000)
(1972/73 - 1975/76)
Promotional Budget
Operating     Internal      Generic        Total
Fiscal Year    Budget       Animation    Promotion    Promotion        Total
1973        34,501         10,000        20,800        30,800      65>301
1974        34,501         15,000        20,800        35,800      70,301
1975        40,810         22,000        18,300        38,300      79,110
1976        75,810         30,000        18,300        48,300    124,:L10
1.12      DGT's Professional Training Department is in charge of organizing
and supervising hotel training.  Middle-level training is given at the
Ecole Nationale de Formation Hote1ière in Dakar which offers one-year courses
(including training in a 39-room practice hotel) and graduates 105 stuidents
annually. The present output of trained hotel personnel is înadequate to
meet the needs expected from newly constructed and planned hotels. This
situation should improve, however, with the implementation of the hotell
training component of the Sec-ond Education Project (Credit 530-SE), which,
in addition to training midd:Le-level personnel annually, would provide
1/ The Government is usually represented on the companies' boards by five
Ministries: Prime Minister's Office, Plan and Cooperation, Finance and
Economic Affairs, Public Works and DGT. The Ministries' representation
varies largely: 20 people represent the Government on five boards.



-5-
refresher courses for those already employed in the industry as .ell as
seminars for management-level personnel. Construction of the ho el
training center, long delayed because of difficulties in securing the land
and appointing architecs, is expected to start in late 1977.
1.13      DGT's Department for Planning and Studies is in charge of
collecting statistics, shaping sectoral policies and preparing reports
for the Incentives Committee. At present, this department is inadequately
staffed to carry out its complex tasks. Accordingly, rapid deve:Lopment,
spurred by Government investment (para. 1.10) and latterly by SOFISEDIT's
activity, has taken place without adequate physical planning and analysis
of the economic viability of hotel projects. By early 1976, SOFISEDIT had
financed four hotel projects (with a total capacity of 300 beds) and had
become the Government's junior partner in the Sociéte d'Aménagement de
la Petite Cote (SAPCO) which would be in charge of implementing the
Sali Portudal project. SOFISEDIT plans to finance other small hotels in
Dakar, St. Louis and Casamance. A further expansion of the sector on a
sound economic basis calls for strict coordination between DGT and SOFISEDIT.
The Government agreed that:
(a) an Economic Analysis and Planning Unit (EAPU) would be
established within DGT before April 1, 1978 to be stafFed
adequately and funded on a continuing basis; and
(b) benefits under Law 72-43 would be refused for projects
evaluated negatively by EAPU.
DGT has established a working party, including representatives from DGT,
SOFISEDIT, SAPCO and the Bank as an observer to supervise the work of the
EAPU and discuss tourism policies.
Il. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background
Sali Portudal Development
2.01      The Petite C0te is a beach area dotted with picturesque fishing
villages stretching over 100 km south of Dakar. M'Bour, a trading and
fishing center about 80 km from Dakar, is the major population center with
30,000 inhabitants. The area enjoys a mild semitropical climate with warm
days and cool nights for most of the year. The prevailing breezes reduce
the effect of high temperatures and humidity during the summer and provide
perfect conditions for sailing activities. The beaches are safer than most
in West Africa. The surf is mild and swimming conditions are generally
excellent, although the water is relatively cool in the late winter months.
The coastal waters provide good opportunities for deep-sea fishing.



-6-
2.02      Dakar International Airport, a major stopover point on the
Europe-South America and North America-Africa routes is served by 21.
international airlines. Its runway, which was modernized under a Bank-
financed project (Loan 867-SE), can accommodate all long-range aircraft.
The airport is about an hour's drive from M'Bour by highway RN 1. M'Bour
is linked by a 1.50-line exchange to the national telecommunications net-
work operated by the Office des Postes et Télécommunications (OPT) and
by a 30-kV line parallel to RN 1 to the national electric power network
run by the Société Sénégalaise de Distribution d'Energie Electrique
(SENELEC). The telephone exchange which is near saturation will have to
be replaced to accommodate the growing demand for telephone service in
the M'Bour region and to service the tourism area (para. 2.24).  The
existing power line is near its load capacity and SENELEC is planning to
double it by a 30-kV line along the coast to be financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency. This new line would supply the coastal
fishing villages and the tourism area and satisfy the increasing power
needs of the M'Bour region.
2.03      The Government's choice of the Petite Côte for priority tourism
development at the time of the preparation of the 1973-77 Plan was motivated
by the natural attractiveness of the area and its proximity to existing
infrastructure.  A master plan completed in 1974 identified five zones
suitable for international tourism development and proposed a land-use plan
for the whole area.  Tourism development has started on the Petite Côte
with the recent opening of two vacation villages (with a total capacity of
740 beds) near Nianing, f ive km south of M'Bour, which registered. a total
of 139,000 foreign bednights in 1974.
2.04      The consultants retained under the UNDP-financed feasibility study 1/
recommended that developmient begin with a site along the beach on each side
of the village of Sali Portudal about four km north of M'Bour.  The beach,
of fine golden sand, declines gradually and is embellished by occasional
lava rock outcroppings and by a winding coastline. The sea water is not
always clear, but beach conditions are otherwise ideal. The land is flat
except for some coastal dunes and is dominated by clusters of baobab trees.
A number of vacation cottages were built recently along the beach mainly
by expatriates living in Dakar with the understanding that they would be
removed at their ownerse expense at the Government's request. The Govern-
ment will initiate steps for their removal as soon as Sali Portudal's de-
velopment plan has been enacted (para. 2.05). The physical characte:ristics
of the site and its proximity to M'Bour and the existing infrastructure make
Sali Portudal a logical first phase for the long-term development program
of the Petite Côte.
2.05      The consultants' basic planning scheme consists of two hotel
zones located around commercial, recreational and sports facilities for the
use of hotel guests as well as day visitors from Dakar.  The two zones,
which will eventually accommodate about 2,500 hotel beds each, will be
1/ The consultants were the U.S. firm, Louis Berger, International, Inc. of
East Orange, N.J.



- 7-
linked by a landscaped pedestrian and vehicular mall. An area is reserved
for the extension of the existing village of Sali Portudal where many hotel
employees would live. The entire area would be subject to a development
plan (plan d'aménagement) which was proposed by the consultants and refined
by SAPCO. A condition of loan effectiveness is the enactment of the plan
d'aménagement.
2.06      The Sali Portudal land belongs in the national domain and as
such cannot be developed by a private or public organization. Except for
the village sites, development of this land by SAPCO would require that the
land first be registered in the Government's name and then leased to SAPCO.
SAPCO in turn would assign the leases to investors. The Government agreed to
complete registration of the land before November 1, 1977 and to lease it to
SAPCO before January 1, 1978. The Government would give SAPCO the use of the
land needed for project implementation until December 31, 1977. Terms and
conditions for the land lease and lease assignment would be described in a
convention générale which would regulate the relations between the Govern-
ment and SAPCO. A draft of this convention was discussed during negotiations.
Signing of a convention générale satisfactory to the Bank and promulgation of
a decree initiating procedures for the registration of Sali Portudal land
also satisfactory to the Bank are conditions of loan effectiveness.
2.07      The resort's development has been so conceived as to avoid
environmental deterioration. The site's natural features would be protected
by the schéma d'amé'nagement which imposes limits on building densities and
heights. The proposed reforestation of wide areas around the site would
enhance the existing landscape and protect the hotel sites from prevailing
winds. The resort would be equipped with all infrastructure (e.g., sewage
collection and treatment system, solid waste collection and disposal) re-
quired to avoid any possible detrimental impact of large numbers of visitors
on the environment.
Goree Renovation
2.08      Gorée is a small island (20 ha) in Dakar harbor which, since
the 15th century, was occupied in succession by the Portuguese, Dutch,
English and French. From the 17th century on it was the hub of the slave
trade from West Africa to the West Indies and the Americas. In the l9th
century it became the staging point for French colonization of Senegal.
Gorée, which has retained the aspects of an 18th century colonial town,
boasts a number of architecturally interesting buildings and has become
both an invaluable historic landmark and a cultural symbol. An increasing
number of tourists visit Goréee's famous slave houses and maritime museum.
2.09      Recently Gorée has seen much of its permanent population move to
Dakar or leave the country. Numerous houses have been abandoned to fall
into ruin. The deterioration of the streets has contributed to the decay
of properties. A private effort to renovate Gorée has saved a number of
buildings and lately the Government passed legislation giving fiscal and
financial incentives to landlords renovating their houses. A study for
the renovation of Goreée, sponsored by UNESCO, identifies a program of
works to preserve the buildings and enhance the island's unique atmosphere.



B. Project Description
2.10      The project would consist: of three major components, namely:
(a)  the infrastructure and common facilities needed for the
development of Sali Portudal's first hotel zone together
with a 250-bed hotel and a new telephone exchange in M'Bour;
(b)  renovation of Gorée Island; and
(c)  funds for project administration, technical assistance and
studies.
Sali Portudal Development
a. Infrastructure
2.11      This would include the primary infrastructure required by Sali
Portudal at full development (5,000 beds) as well as secondary infrastruc-
ture and public utilities distribution networks for developing the first
hotel zone of the resort with an ultimate capacity of some 2,500 beds.  The
second hotel zonet, to the north, would be implemented as soon as develop-
ment of the first: zone had demonstrated the market potential and additional
financing had been obtained. The infrastructure design will permit this
expansion at minimum cost.
- Roads and parking areas
2.12      The roaLd system would include:
(a)  a 3.3-km access road linking the project site to the
Dakar-M' Bour highway;
(b)  2.4 km of asphalt'ed secondary roads to the hotel plots
and the main cominon facilities; and
(c)  6 km of unpaved roads providing access to the boreholes
and stabilization ponds as well as circulation within
the extension of Sali Portudal village.
Three parking areas near the commercial, rgcreational and sports facilities
would accommodate a total of 120 cars. Pedestrian paths would provide
access from the hotels, beaches and common facilities. All roads would
have a 9-m wide platform and a 6-m wide carriageway.  The paved roads would
have a double surface dressing which is expected to last 10-12 years before
major repairs are needed.
- Streetlighting
2.13      Lighting would be provided by underground cables originating
,rom two MV-LV substations.  Six-m poles at 25-m intervals would illuminate



-9-
the streets; floodlights mounted on 10-m poles would be employed for the
public areas and ground lights for the pedestrian paths.
- Sewerage
2.14      A separate system would provide for sewage collection and storm
water drainage. Sewage from the hotels and the village of Sali rortudal
would be channeled by gravity through effluent pipes into a concrete main
running 2.6 km along the coast to a low point in the center of the area.
From this point the sewage would be raised by a pumping station and through
a 2-km PVC main to stabilization ponds with an initial capacity c:orres-
ponding to the needs of 2,500 beds (expandable to 5,000). The treated
water effluent would be used in the irrigated area which is included in
the project (para. 2.23). Storm water would be drained by the road system
and conveyed into the sea and absorption wells. This project component
includes funds for environmental sanitation.
- Water supply
2.15      TaTater would be produced by two boreholes each with a 150-m3/hr
capacity ar.d would be pumped and stored in a 1,000-m3 elevated tank. A 300-rm
PVC pipe 1.9 km long would connect the storage system with the resort center
and subsequently the distribution system of the first hotel zone consisting
of 8.5 km of PVC pipes (100 to 200 mm in diameter). The water supply system
would also include fireplugs, a garden watering system and provision for
water to four villages near the resort (population 1,200).
- Power supply
2.16      Electric power would be supplied from the neighboring towr; of
M'Bour by a 5.6-km, 30-kV line. This would constitute the last segment of
a new coastal line (para. 2.02). At the edge of the resort area, the
30-kV line would be connected to a 3-km underground distribution system.
Four substations would relay the power to the hotel sites and transform and
distribute power to the common facilities and the public lighting system of
Sali Portudal and its extension. The project would also provide an emer-
gency power system consisting of a 200-kVA diesel generator for the sewerage
pumping stations, the boreholes and some public lighting (pedestrian paths).
-  Telecommunications
2.17      The Sali Portudal telecommunications local network would consist
of a 5.5-km underground cable from the M'Bour telephone exchange to a dis-
tribution box at the edge of the resort. Underground PVC ducts with branch
points connecting superstructure and facilities would also be provided.
Cables for telephone distribution would be laid at the expense of individual
users.



- 10 -
-  Landscaping
2.18      LandsecWit i6:Ld           e           c      igbf  tiaT14d
planting selected species of tropical trees.  Large areas around the resort
would be reforested to provide wind protection and soilJ i`flUeat-ion.  In
order to facilitate the landscaping effort, the project would provide funds
ofr7f- i&Sat4ngæ   oéeig   s   n'erulw«cSi:e3tS upybàts
Lwould ôperaté ('W aà:  ird1ià&l I    Ls f6r- Erfi itta`téi-    buneér&'okwa-héiw
investo-rs        ;                          --'                    J
s. p18i dé as te>isi3osr12 g)  «      ,      ,.   r     r'"'--``.i-' 
`>t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-              -  :   .g_< #-J'Mit; s..9ti.,.--
2.19      A sanit_ary~ andfi`I-«d14 be c+èafd in- -- locati-oiiàtt , e Seleted
during final &esign.  Thü3prlje&t ec41d-zfince civl1 works anhdeut'ipment
for cQllectThg and ~treatifigr-thre>o1Id iO~e~   -kl A,W ffiSO  - ''i
b.  Common Facilities
2.20      The project would provide commercial, sports, recreational, admin-
istraei»ve and maintenance  fci:aities ta ake the toûrlsm dev-elopment -attrac-
tive to visitors, and theréfortao iinvestors.  The tommercial gad.iities'
would consist of shopsÉ,,u`42af-tbore, arts a'nd craftsi;vork'sho;s, car-and
bicycle rentai agencied4t, EQ bk,    (tatj§nts and enitéertait -t ific±Ii,tiées.
Professional equipment' wne4d be   tàÏ-l-ed in the restauran`ts and-'enter-
tainment"q5gziiiti§.::-het spotrsand-' recreational"facilities would include
four tennis courts, sporét fîË1L4s, aln opena-aer theater, an aquarium, children's
playgrounds, a riding stable and a boat dock.  Service buildings and a club-
house would complete these installations. The administrative and maintenance
facilities would be used by SAPCO's staff and equipment.  They would also
include buildings for post office, police and first.aid services..
c.  Pilot Hotel
2.21      The-pilot hote1-widld'be-situated on a 4ha lot 'ovërlôoking the
sea.  The'hopel is intendmd-it  ë%-ts1Vt-îsEta?-itectu-ta- aiiin"-vir5en ta'l
standards. for thes Sali- Nianiâ&t2-ho%él de4bIopment and demonerait'the
feasibility of constructI1-g          -SaIt PÔrotudar`hich    Îpe'        et-
itiveXin terms orÉ ,both       c         operations. 'Mor  eT,-: ésàrf'con-
struction of a hotel in the resort would provide a psychological incentive
to further development.  A condition of loan effecti4etées4s i'41{e selection
of suitable management foi the pilot hotel on terms and conditions sqtis-
f actoryI îowrJthao»gfîk-. Z r30',  - - g   - ____   ,')5 < g             Y
2.22       --Ih -hofee 1el dy-Ybà  250Yub, 9 itaf à     ftatP'oû -tits  e
conazi^-tet wrtia~~~~~~~fl ShtBIX4 iiMEf-h3ibe ifL   à i   s  zeiniiph3
sXl~~~jab-irF2-t 4ibm^-ee-and,'Cilâ1rtgë -£dof doera ë-È-hâi;   0ic X m  a>raSs.
In view of the h:igh summer temperatures the hotel would be air-cond3itib'ln?d.
The project would include civil works, furniture and professional equipment,
as well as funds for the preopening expenses and working capital.



- jl1 -
d. Irrigated Area
2.23      Upon full development of the first hotel zone, sewage would
average 1,000 m3 per day. An area of some 20 ha would be irrigared by
the treated effluent of the stabilization ponds; this area would be a
source of fruit and vegetables for the tourist complex and would create
additional employment opportunities for some 40 families in the project
areas. The project would include land preparation, a watering svstem,
fencing and storage facilities. Before completion of the hotel develop-
ment, the area would be irrigated with water fronm the boreholes (which
would not yet be used for hotel consumption).
e. M'Bour Telephone Exchange
2.24      The existing M'Bour telephone exchange with its capacity of 150
lines is near saturation. To assure an efficient telecommunications
service from the tourism area to Dakar and abroad, it needs replacement by
a 500-line automatic exchange.  This facility would meet the demand for
telephone connections of the M'Bour region for the next ten years. The
project would include the construction of the telephone exchange building
and the related telephone equipment.
Gore'e Renovation
2.25      The project works would contribute to the ongoing Government
program for preserving the island and developing tourism there. It is
expected that upgrading the streets and public spaces would stimulate
private interest in renovating the existing houses. Harbor imprcvement
and extension and restoration of the Government-owned, privately-managed
Relais de l'Espadon, would broaden Gorée's appeal as a center for deep-sea
fishing.
- Street and public space upgrading
2.26      The entire street system, approximately 9,000 m2, would be
covered to an average de?th of 20 cm with sand and gravel to fill in depressions
and holiows created by wina erosion and wear.  The cobblestone path leading
from the harbor to the for-ress wouLd be restored. The principal public
spaces, totaling some 3 ha, would be regraded, paved or replanted. Under-
ground cabies for the streetlighting system would be laid and new lamps
installed.
-  Harbor improvement
2.27      The use of the harbor by pleasure craft is presently limited by
the presence of severai large boulders and the remains of some previous
harbor cons:ruction.  These would Le removed and a small dock capable of
nandlang zen Lo fifteen boats would be built.



-- 12 -
-  Relais de l'Espadon extens:ion and restoration
2.28      The Re'Lais de l'Espadon building would be renovated and an adjacent
building would be restored creating 15 additional rooms. The garden between
the central building and t'he annex would be landscaped and a swimming pool
constructed in the principal hotel garden. The hotel renovation and ex-
pansion would include civil works as well as furniture and equipment. A
condition for disbursing the funds for the renovation of the Relais de
l'Espadon would be Bank approval of a marketing program for the hotel.
This marketing program would include a timetable of steps for improving
the management of the Espadon.
Project Administration, Technical Assistance and Studies
2.29      The project would also provide funds for administration, pro-
fessional services, technical assistance and two studies. Funds earmarked
for project administration would cover the foreign exchange costs (personnel,
operational equipment and -Materials) of SAPCO's operations during the im-
plementation period as well as the cost of consultants to assist SAPCO in
setting up its accounts and carrying out an investment promotion campaign
(para. 3.05).
2.30      The technical assistance funds would provide support to DGT in
establishing the EAPU, in improving promotion and in the initial operations
of the Dakar Hotel Training Center.  The EAPU would be staffed for two
years by three experts to be financed under the project: a tourism economist,
a financial analyst and an architect planner (on a part-time basis) to be
appointed before June 30, 1978.  T'he Government agreed to obtain the Bank's
concurrence before filling any of these positions and to provide the experts
with qualified counterparts. The project provides funds for four fellowships
for the training abroad of the counterparts.  Assistance to DGT in tourism
promotion would include preparation and implementation of a marketinlg program
for the country which wouid also include proposals for marketing the Relais
de l'Espadon (para. 2.28). The Government agreed to discuss with the Bank,
the recommendations of the study before January 31, 1979 and to implement the
agreed-upon program on a continuing basis.  The Dakar Hotel Training Center
financed under the Second Education Project (para. 1.12) is scheduled to begin
operation in early 1979. At the time of approval of the Second Education Project,
UXDP had agreed to finance the required assistance, but is now no longer in a
position to do so. Tne Gcvernment was unable to find another donor and has
agreed to include in the proposed Droject funds for 120 manmonths of training
ex-e--s -n t'ne major departments (kitchen, restaurant/bar, housekeeping/front
ftce and tourism) as well as nine fellowships for the training abroad of
thïe couziterparts.
2. 31     hne study funds included in the project would be earmarked for two
.rp-;-3:  f-rst, to provide consuitant services to DGT to monitor the socio-
~cŽ0n(aS-'c impact of tour-'s c5 eve:pent on the Petite Côte (this consultant's
servLccs would be provided intermi-ttently); second, to prepare a second
:--urtsm project which could include secondary infrastructure for the second
otei zone in Sali Portudal and further work on Gorée.
'2032     Ail consultants engaged to provide technical assistance or to carry
out tne studies would be agreeable to the Bank, selected and employed under
uerms and conditions satisfacLory co the Bank.  The Government agreed on the
followi4ng scheduLes for the employ-I+ent of consultants:



- 13 -
Submission of
Terms of Ref-    Employment
ence for Bank         of         Start of    Completion
Approval       Consultants       Work       of Work
Marketing study        Dec 77          Mar 78        May 78;       Dec 78
Monitoring of
socioeconomic         Dec 77          Mar 78        May 78        Jan 81
impact
Technical assistance
to hotel training    Dec 77           Mar 78        Oct 78        Jun 80
Investment
Promotion             Nov 77          Dec 77        Jan 78        Jun 80
Accounting             Dec 77          Jun 78        Jun 78        Jun 81
Second tourism
project               Jun 79          Oct 79        Nov 79        May 80
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Sali Portudal Development
3.01      The Société' d'Amenagement de la Petite Côte (SAPCO) would have
primary responsibility for implementing the Sali Portudal works. SAPCO
was founded on August 20, 1975, with an initial equity of CFAF 150 million,
or the purpose of developing land for tourism, attracting local and foreign
investors, leasing developed sites, building and owning commercial facil-
ities and enforcing building and zoning regulations. The Senegalese state
owns 90% of SAPCO; SOFISEDIT is the minority shareholder. SAPCO's Board of
Directors includes the President of SOFISEDIT and representatives of in-
terested Government offices: the President's Office, the Prime Minister's
Office, the DGT, the Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Industrial Development and
Environment, the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Transport(MTPUT),
the Ministry of Rural Development and Hydraulics (MDRH) and the Governor
of the Thies region (where Sali Portudal is located). The representative
of the Prime Minister's Office is Chairman of the Board and Director
General.
3.02      SAPCO is a corporation subject to commercial law.  As such, it
enjoys the flexibility needed for timely completion of the project. Since
its establishment, SAPCO has set up a Technical Department and a Commercial
Department. In order to minimize its operating costs, SAPCO strives to
maintain a lean staffing pattern by limiting the tasks it would carry out
and relying on outside consultants whenever special expertise (e.g., legal
or technical advice) is required. SAPCO's internal organization and



- 14 -
staffing would be determined initially in light of the requirements of the
construction phase, and would be appropriately modified when the resort
reaches the operational phasie, as described below.
Construction Phase
3.03      SAPCO would conduct the detailed planning studies, supervise final
engineering work and coordinate the implementation of all construction work
in Sali Portudal.  In particular, SAPCO would implement the water- component
on behalf of MDRH cnd the sewerage component on behalf of MTPUT. It woeuld
advertise requests for tenders, evaluate bids, enter into contracts and
supervise all work. SAPCO would be assisted by the Société Nationale d'Ex-
ploitation des Eaux du Sénégal (SONEES), SENELEC, OPT and MDRH for the desien and
construction of the water and sewerage, electric power, telecommunications
and irrigation components respectively. Agreements between SAPCO and each
of these agencies will define the latter's respective financial and technical
responsibilities. Drafts of these agreements were discussed during negotiations.
A condition of loan effectiveness is the signing of agreements, with provisions
satisfactory to the Bank, between SAPCO and all agencies concerned. The
conditions under which SAPCO would iraplement the water/sewerage component on
behalf of the Government will be spelled out in the convention generale.
3.04      The chart below summarizes the organization of SAPCO during the
construction phase. The Technical Department, headed by an experienced
engineer, would include an architect advisor on a part-time basis, an infra-
structure engineer, a procurement officer and a surveyor. SAPCO would employ
before January 1, 1L978 engineering consultants and architects agreeable to
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out the
final design, award contracts and supervise the project works. SAPCO has
signed a contract iLor the final design, contract award and supervision of the
infrastructure W th Louis Berger, International.  SAPCO agreed to prepare a
critical path network of all project works before April 1, 1978 and to review
such network every six months in consultation with the Bank.
3.05      The Commesrcial Department, headed by the former team leader of the
UNDP feasibility study, would be in charge of accounting and commercial
management. During construction, its main task would be to establish and main-
tain SAPCO's accounts and carry out a campaign to promote investiments in Sali
Portudal with the assistance of consultants (para. 2.29).  It would also
assist investors in their negotiations with the MTPUT to obtain building
permits and with the Committee on Incentives to obtain the benefits of the
incentives law. Tle appointments to the positions of technical director,
commercial director and architect advisor were made in consultat;on with the
Bank. They have the qualifications and experience to carry out their tasks
efficiently.
3.06      The ownership and responsibility for operating and maiiitaining
the electricity and telecommunciations components once they are completed
would be transferred at no cost to SENELEC and OPT respectively.  SONEES
would run the water and sewerage systems which would be the property cf the
Government.  SENELEC, OPT and SONEES are adequately equipped to operate and



CharL 1
l 5-
SENEGAL
Petite Càte Tourism Project
Organization Chart of SAPCO during Construction
GENERAL DIRECTION
- General Director
- Secretary
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
- Personnel (1 accountant)
- Transportation (3 drivers)
- Messenger (1 messenger)
- Maintenance (2 attendants)
TECH-NICAL DIRECTION                           COMMERCIAL DIRECTION
- Technical Director                           - Commercial Director
- Architect Adviser                            - Economist/Financial Analyst
- Infrastructure Engineer                      - Chief Accountant
- Procurement Officer                          - Assistant Accountant
- 1 Surveyor                                   - 2 Secretaries/typists
- 2 secretariesftypists
- Engineering Consultants   I               I - Legal Consultants
- Architects                  I             I - Promotion Consultants
X  I          I - Accounting Consultants        s
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ J         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ W~~~~



- 16 -
:iclI Fac Il  i ti.  S3AP'CO' s managemernt of tlhe irrig;ated area would be
sLipe rv t McIby M4lRII. TlIic finalancial responsibilities for the different
components are outLined in paras. 6.01 and 6.02.
Operation
3.07      Chart 2 summarizes SAPCO's organization during the operational
phase. The Technical Department would be in charge of operating and main-
taining those infrastructure components (e.g., roads, solid waste disposal,
landscaping) w'nich would not be turned over to the utility companies, and
of maintaining SAPCO's common facilities. The Commercial Department would:
(a) apply policies for the lease of hotel sites and common
facilities;
(b)  continue the investment promotion campaign;'
(c)  operate common facilities until they are leased;
(d)  operate tlhe irrigated area; and
(e)  co-sponsor with hotel operators and local authorities
a Resort Committee which would be in charge of running
certain of the common facilities and stimulating social
activities (animation) in Sali Portudal.
3.08      SAPCO's personnel structure would be modified as required to
ensure a smooth transition f'rom the construction to the operational phase.
The Government agreed to inf'orm the Bank on any proposal to replace the
President of SAPCO and SAPCO agreed to consult with the Bank on proposals
to change its organization and to fill the positions of technical diresctor,
commercial director and architect advisor should these become vacant.
B. M['Bour Telephone Exchange
3.09      OPT would be responsible for the construction, operation and
maintenance of the M'Bour telephone exchange.
C. Gorée Renovation
3.10      The Direction de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat (DUE) within MTPUT
would be in charge of the Gorée works. It would establish a special unit



S£NEGAL
Petite Cote Tourism Project
Organization Chart of SAPCO during Operation
General Direction
-General Director
-Secretary
Administrative Services.
-Personnel (2 accountants)
-Transportation (3 drivers)             - - _             New Projects
-Messenger (1 messenger)
-Maintenance (2 attendants)
Technical Direction                                                  Commercial Direction
-Technical Director                                                  -Commercial Director
-1 Secretary/typist                                                  -Economist/Financial Analyst
-1 Secretary/typist
Road Maintenance          Garden          Building and        Irrigated            Accounting        Invest. Prom.        Resort
and Garbage          Maintenance      Sports Facilities        Area              -2 Accountants   -Promotion Adv.    Animation
Collection                              Maintenance                              -2 Secretaries   -Architect Adv.
-Land Surveyor
1/ The organization of this unit would be similar to the organization shown on Chart 1.
rt



- 18 
to supervise the final studies, issue tender documents, evaluate bids and
supervise implementation. A condition for disbursing the project funds
earmarked for the Gorée renovation is the appointment of an architect
to tnis special unit agreeable to the Bank.
D. Technical Assistance and Studies
3.11      DGT would be in charge of the technical assistance and studies
financed by the project except for investment promotion which would be the
responsibility of SAPCO.
3.12      Tha table on page 19 lists the various agencies involved in the
financing, construction, ownership, maintenance and operation of the
project componentsO
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Proje.t Costs
4.01      Total project cost, net of taxes, amounts to Us$17.3 million including
US$4.6 million    contingencles arnd excludîng USt$1.3 million in interest
during construction. The base line cost is estimated at US$12.7 million.
This cost is derived from the consultants' estimates (adjusted to January 1,
1976 to account for price changes since June 1975) as revised by the mission.
Uni.t prices were checked with those in the latest tenders by the various agencies.
Civil works amount to US$7.7 million and represent 57% of the base line cost.
Equipment costs (i.e., the costs of goods purchased finished and installed
without substantial alteration) amount to US$2.2 million and represent 17%
of the base line cost. Professional services, including final design and
supervision of the various project components as well as the services for project
administration, technical assistance and studies are estimated at US$3.0
million and represent 24% of the base line cost. The working capital and
preopening expenses for the pilot hotel represent 2% of the base line cost,
equivalent to US$0.3 million.
4.02       A1n average increase of 10% has been allowed to cover physical
contingencies for civil works and equipment in Sali Portudal. A relatively
modest contingency is reasonable since most of the cost estimates are
based on advanced engineering. Physical contingencies for the Gorée
renovation are assumed at 15% as it is more difficult to give precise
estimates for renovation. To account for the recent evolution of prices
in Senegal and the likely impact of worldwide inflation on international
materials, labor and equipment costs, provision has been made for a
13%-12% price increase per year for civil works and 9%-8% for equipment,
resulting in a price contingency of 28% of the base line cost. 1/ The over-
all contingency provision amounts to 36% of the base line cost.
1/ Price contingencies are based on the following annual interest:
Year       Civil Works       Equipment
1976           13%              9%
1977           12               8
1978           12               8
1979           12               8



- i9-
Construction     Maintenance,
Project Component       Financing   or Inmplementation   Operation   Ownership
1. Sali Portudai
Roads, parking,
streetlighting,
landscaping,
pilot hotel,
common facilities,
solid waste disposal    SAPCO             SAPCO            SAPCO       SAPCO
Water supply              MDRH          SAPCO/SONEES        SONEES       MDRH
Sewerage                  MTPUT         SAPCO/SONEES        SONEES      MTPUT
Power                     SAPCO         SAPCO/SENELEC       SENELEC  Electricité a/
du Sénégal
Telecommunications        SAI`CO          SAPCO/OPT         OPT          OPT
Irrigated area            SM'Co         SAPCO/MDRH        SAPCO/MDRH    SAPCO
2. M'Bour Telephone
Exclange                 OPT              OPT              OPT          OPT
3. Goree
Ilarbor                   MTPU;T           MTPUT            MTPUT
Streets and public
places                   MTIUT            MTPUT            MTPUT
IHotel de l'Espp(on       MTI'TT           MTPUTT           MTPUT
. TIecbnical Assistance
and Studies
Economiî  Amalysis Unit.  DGT              DGT
Markethi-g program        DGT              DGT
Second tourism
project                  DGT              DGT
Monitor socioeconomic
impact                   DGT              DGT
a/ Senegalis power system is owned by Electricité du Sénégal, which leases
.t to SENELEC.



z! laxasLaLud ing cusrom.-s àcties and vaiue-aetded taxes, are estLimated
at US$2.8 mî-ilion or 16%' of the total projeet, net of taxes.



Pro_ject Cost by Component and Category of Expenditure
(CFAF'000)                                     (US$'000)                       7. of Total
Code           Project Component                 Local          Foreign          Total             Local        Foreign             Total      Expenditure
(1)             (2)            (3)               (4)           (5)                (6)
1.             Sali Portudal Infrastructure    297,251          884,768       1,182,019          1,213.2        3,611,3           4,824.5         27.8
a.         Civil works                     242,043        573,569         815,612            987.9        2,341.1          3,329.0          19.2
b.          Equipment                       30,869        205,187         236,056            126.0          837.5             963.5          5.5
c.         Professional services            24,339        106,012         130,351             99.3          432.7            532.0           3.1
2.            Common Facilities                  102,894        207,245          310,139           420.0          845.9           1,266.9          7.2
a.         Civil works                      91,984        150,307         242,291            375.4          613.5             988.9          5.7
b.          Equipment                        4,107         27,317          31,424             16.8          111.5             128.3          0.7
c.         Professional services             6,803         29,621          36,424             27.8          120.9             148.7          0.8
3.            Pilot Hotel                        218,864        466 210          685J074           893.3        1,902.9           2,796.2         16.2
a.         Civil works                     145,635        226,551         372,186            594.4          924.7          1,519.1           8.8
b.          Equipment                       24,750        143,742         168,492            101.0          586.7             687.7          4.0
c.         Professional services            13,209         57,526          70,735             53.9          234.8             288.7          1.7
d.         Working capital and
preopening expenses          35,270         38,391          73,661            144.0          156.7            300.7           1.7
4.             Irrigated Area                      9,781          27,146          36,927            40.0           110.8            150.8           0.9
a.         Civil works                       8,712         19,061          27,773             35.6           77.8             113.4          0.7
b.         Equipment                           263          4,582           4,845              1.1           18.7              19.8          0.1
c.         Professional services               806          3,503           4,309              3.3           14.3              17.6          0.1
5.            M'Bour Telephone Exchange           24,940         58,310           83,250           101.8           238.0            339.8           2.0
a.         Civil works                      14,000         15,239          29,239             57.1           62.2             119.3          0.7
b.          Equipment                        8,400         36,603          45,003             34.3          149.4             183.7           1.1
c.         Professional services             2,540          6,468           9,008             10.4           26.4              36.8          0.2
6.             Gorée Renovation                  143,756        228,585          372,341           586.8           933.0          1,519.8           8.7
a.         Civil works                     122,800        160,279         283,079            501.2          654.2          1,155.4           6.6
b.         Equipment                         8,300         36,162          44,462             33.9          147.6             181.5          1.0
c.         Professional services            12,656         32,144          44,800             51.7          131.2             182.9           1.1
7.             Project Administration             50,679         72,887          123,566           206.9           297.5            504.4           2.9
Technical Assistance and
Studies                         40,000        284,200         324,200            163.3        1,160.0           1,323.3           7.6
BASE LINE COST                 888,165      2,229,351       3,117,516          3,625.3        9,099.4          12,25.7           73.3
Contingencies                  343,348        791,129       1,134,477          1,401.4        3,229.1           4,630.5          26.7
Physical increase               76,747        169,687          246,434           313.2          692.6           1,005.8           5.8
Price increase                 266,601        621,442          888,043         1,088.2        2,536.5           3,624.7          20.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST           1,231,513      3,020,480       4,251,993          5,026.7       12,328.5          17,355.2         100.0
(in round figures)          (1,200,000)    (3,000,000)    (4,2EO,000)         (5,000.0)     (12,300.0)        (17,300.0)



ProJect Cost by Implementing Agency
(CFAF'OOO)                          (US$'000)                      % of Foreign
AsgencyT                      Local         F'or g      Total          Local   Foreign        Total        Exchange
SAiC(O                        9322278    2,251,966  3,184,244        3,805.2   9,191.7   12,996.9             70.7       Pfi >
o
Civil works                   488,375       969,490  1,457,865       1,993.3   3,957.1    5,950.4             66 5        o
Equipmrcut                     59,989       380,803    440,792         244.8   1,554.3    1,799.1             84.2       el >
Professional services          95,835       269,574    365,409         391.2   1,100.3    1,491.5             70.1
Contingencies                 252,809       593,708    846,517       1,031.9   2,423.3    3,455.2             64.7
Other a/                       35,270        38,391      73,661        144.0      156.7       300.7           52.1          't
DUH                           217;O24       338,296    555,320         885.8   1,380.8    2,266.6             60.9
_r
Civil works                   122,800       160,279    283,079         501.2      654.2    1,155.4            56.6
Equipment                       8,300        36,162      44,462         33.9      147.6       181.5           81.3          o
Professional services          12,656        32,144      44,800         51.7      131.2       182.9           71,7
Contingencies                  73,268       109,711    182,979         299.0      447.8       746.8           60,0          o
rt
DGT                            49,971       355,004    404,975         204.0   1,449.0    1,653.0             87.6
Professional services          40,000       284,200    324,200         163.3   1,160.0    1,323.3             87.6
Contingencies                   9,971        70,804      80,776         40.7      289.0       329.7           87.6
OPT                            32,240        75,214    107,454         131.7      307.0       438.7           70.0           8
Civil works                    14,000        15,239      29,239         57.1       62.2       119.3           52.1
Equipment                       8,400        36,603      45,003         34.3      149.4       183.7           81.3           H
Professional services           2,540         6,468       9,008         10.4       26.4        36.8           71.7
Contingencies                   7e300        16,904      24,205         29.9       69.0        98.9           69.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST      1,231,513    3,020,480  4,251,993         5,026.7  12,328.5   17,355.2             71.0
(in rounded fieures)  (l1200;000)   (3,000,000>(4,200,000)    (5,000.0)(12,300.0) (17,300.0)                             O
a! Working capital and preopening expenses for the pilot hotel



- 23 -
B. Financing and Lending Arrangements
4.05      The foreign exchange compo,ûent of the project (FS$12.3 million) and
interest during construction (US$1.3 million) would be covered by a US$5.6 million
Bank loan and a US$8 million Third Window loan. Interest during construction
aas been included because SAPCO would not begin to earn substantial revenues
until three years after completion of the infrastructure works. The loans would
include US$300,000 of retroactive f-nancing to cover SAPCO's expenditures after
February 1, 1976, -for expatriate staff, detailed planning and engineering
studies and some infrastructure (e.g., a borehole and landscaping) to be under-
taken before loan signing.
4.06      The proposed loans would be made to the Senegalese Government.  The
portion of the funds needed for the Sali Portudal infrastructure (except for
the water and sewerage components), common facilities, pilot hotel and project
administration (US$8.3 million) would be onlent to SAPCO on the sare terms
as the Bank loan. The Government would take the foreign exchange risk.
The remainder of SAPCO's financing would be provided by an equity contribution
of CFAF 350 million and a complementary subordinated Government loan of
CFAF 600 million. A condition of effectiveness of the loan is the increase
of SAPCO's-subscribed equity by CFAF 350 million and the paying in of CFAF 87.5
million.  The provisions of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and SAPCO were discussed during negotiations.  A condition of loan
effectiveness is the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, between the Government and SAPCO.
4.07       The funds needed for the replacement of the M'Bour telephone
exchange (US$0.3 million) would be onlent to OPT on the same terms as the
Bank loan. A condition of disbursement of these funds is the conclusion
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and OPT satisfactory
to the Bank. The funds to cover the local costs would be provided by OPT.
4.08      The project financing plan is shown on page 24.
C. Procurement
4.09      Major civil works and equipment contracts would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In
order to encourage such competitive bidding, project items would be grouped
to the extent possible. To permit smaller local contractors to tender for
works of a size within their capability and at the same time to attract
foreign bidders, contracts for civil works would be tendered either individ-
ually or combined into bidding groups at the bidder's option. In evaluating
international bids for purchasing equipment and some building materials,
Senegalese manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of competing imports or the prevailing level of customs duties,
whichever would be lower. Civil works contracts not éxceeding the equivalent



- 24 -
a/
SAPCO   Government  Government  OPT  Proceeds of  Total (net
Equity    Funds         Loan    Funds IBRD Loans    of taxes)
(US$ million)
Sali Portudal infra-
structure and
pilot hotel              1.1        0.7          2.0       -       9.2          13.0
Gorée renovation
and studies              -          1.1          -         -       2.8           3.9
M'Bour telephone
exchange                 -          -            -         0.1    0.3            0.4
Interest during
construction             -          -            -         -       ].3           1.3
TOTAL PROJECT
COST                    1.1        1.8          2.0       0.1   13.6          18.6
SAPCO working capital      0.3        -            0.4       -       -             0.7
GRAND TOTAL              1.4        1.8          2.4       0.1   13.6           19.3
(CFAF million)
Sali Portudal infra-
structure and
pilot hotel              279        153          500         -  2,252          3,184
Gorée renovation
and studies                -        267            -         -    693            960
M'Bour telephone
exchange                              -            -         32     75           107
Interest during
construction              _           -            -         -    318            318
TOTAL PROJECT COST       279        420          500        32  3,338         4,569
SAPCO working capital       71          -          100          -      -           171
GRAND TOTAL              350        420          600        32  3,338         4,740
a/ The Government confirmed during negotiations that the project would be exempted from
taxes.



-- 25 -
oL US$200,000 and equipment and materiais contracts not exceeding the
equivalent of US$50,000 would be advertised locally and awarded ln
accordance with procedures for competitive bidding to be acceptable to
the Bank provided, however, that the aggregate amount of such contracts
does not exceed the equivalent of US$1 million.
D. Disbursements
4.10      The proposed loans of US$13.6 million would be disbursed to meet:
(a) 65% of total expenditures, net of taxes, for civil works;
(b) 100% of the foreign cost of imported goods or of the ex-
factory cost of locally-prôduced goods procured through
international competitive bidding and 75% of other
locally-procured items;
(c) 80% of the total expenditures for professional services; and
(d) 100% of interest during construction.
The tentative schedule of disbursement of the Bank loans is as follows:
Forecast of Loan Disbursement
(US$ '000)
Undisbursed
Disburserient                Ralance
Quarterly   %   Cumulative   %   Quarterly   %
Year l
ist Quarter               -     -           -      -      13,600  100.0
2nd Ouarter            584      4.3       584      4.3    13,016   95.7
3rd Ouarter            353      2.6       937      6.9    12,663   98.1
4th Cbuarter           562      4.1    1,499    11.0    12,101   89.0
Year 2
lst Quarter            758      5.6    2,257    16.6    11,343   83.4
2nd Quarter          1,522    11.2    3,779    27.8         9,821   72.2
3rd Quarter          1,919    14.1    5,698    41.9        7,902   58.1
4th Quarter          1,281      9.4    6,978    51.3        6,621   48.7
Year 3
ist Quarter          1,127      8.3    8,106    59.6       5,494   40.4
2ns  Quîrter         1 056      7.8    9,162    67,4       4,438   32.6
Jrd  ^ua-rter        1,367    10.0   10,529    77.4        3,071   22.6
4th Q'uârter         1,509       .1   12,038    88.5       1,562   11.5
I Qear 4
1st Quarter          1,562    il.5   13,600   100.0-                 -



- 26 -
V.  ACCOMODATION AND MARKET PROSPECTS
A. Accommodation Development
5.01      The hotel construction schedule would be as follows:
Year                  Beds Beginning Operation    Total Beds AAvailable
1978/79                          400                        400
1979/80                          500                        900
1980/81                          500                      1,400
1981/82                          600                      2,000
1982/83                          500                      2,500
Most of this accommodation would be in 3=star vacation villages.
5.02      Investors' interest in Sali Portudal is strong.  Local and
foreign investors have already asked SAPCO's approval for the construction
of about 2,000 beds. Additional investor interest is expected after
approval of the project and launching of the promotion campaign. The
project should be attractive to investors since they would enjoy the ad-
vantages inherent in a resort area developed within a carefully planned
physical framework; they would be provided with long-term ground leiases
at reasonable terms; they would be able to count on efficient utilities;
they would benefit from the presence of shopping and recreational facili-
ties.  In addition, the investors would benefit from Government pro,grams
aimed at providing adequaitely trained personnel (para. 1.12), long-term
financing (paras. 1.03 and 5.03) and  attractive incentives.  In order to ensurc
timely development of the Sali Portudal area and thus maximum returns from
public funds invested in the project, the Government agreed (a) to suspend
authorizations of hotel investments in areas of the Petite Cote other than
Sali Portudal until completion of the accommodation build-up referred to in
para. 5.01; (b) not to grant hotel investors elsewhere in Senegal more favorable
incentives than those granted in Sal- Portudal; and (c) to set lease rents for
hotel sites elsewhere in Senegal at levels comparable to those in Sali Portudal.
5.03      At a cost of CFAF 3.4 million (US$13,800) per bed in 1976
prices and assuming average annual price increases of 8%, the investment
in 2,250 beds (i.e., excluding the pilot hotel) would total about CFAF 9,000
million (US$37 million) during the period 1977-82. Assuming that the equity
funds and the medium-term financing from commercial banks would cover 60%
of the investment (or about CFAF 5,500 million (US$22 million)), lorig-term
debt financing would be needed in the amount of about CFAF 4,000 million
(US$16 million), or an average of CFAF 670 million (US$2.7 million) per year.
SOFISEDI'T's projected disbursements for tourism projects total CFAF 1,500
million (US$6.1 million) for the 1977-82 period or CFAF 250 million (US$1.0
million) per year and could meet about one-third of these long-term debt /
capital requirements. The remainder could be filled with funds from other
Senegalese institutions (e.g., Banque Sénégalo-Koweitienne) or from foreign



27 -
oli.cerai or rnuÏtiia,eral institutions (e.g., Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
.ior. I~cononiue, European Investmcnt Bank, SIFIDA).  The Government agreed
t() niake avallable the cornplemencary long-term hotel financing should funds from
other channels fall short of requirements.
5.04      The lease of Sali Portucdal land would be regulated by a cahier
des charges (conditions of lease) which would reflect the provisions of the
development plan and of the convention generale. The cahier des charges
would aiso spell out the investors' obligations. Provisions would be in-
cluded setting standards of service and maintenance as well as architectural
and landscaping norms which would help blend the buildings into the surround-
ing scenery and create a harmonious ambiance for tourist activities. The
provisions of the cahier des charges were discussed during negotiations
and the approval of a cahier des charges acceptable to the Bank would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Since the main purpose of the cahier des
charges is to ensure that the environment in which promoters invest will not
be downgraded, it is expected that investors would readily accept its pro-
visions.
5.05      Despite Sali Portudal's attractiveness and the Government's and
SAPCO's promotional efforts, the risk remains that private hotel investment
might not be forthcoming in sufficient quantity.  To ensure adequate ex-
ploitation of the project after the infrastructure has been built, the Sene-
galese Government would undertake to supplement private investments if nec-
essary, so that sufficient hotel rooms would be constructed to attain
acceptable rates of return on infrastructure outlays. Construction of
1,500 beds by 1985 (60% of the total proposed under this project) would
assure an economic rate of return of about 12%, which is considered accept-
able in Senegal. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government will take steps to ensure that this minimum number of beds is
in operation by 1985, unless the Bank and the Government agree otherwise
because of inadequacy of the potential market.



- 28 -
B. Market Prospects
5.06     Africa has traditionally been identified as a multiple-stop
destination for wealthy visitors motivated by cultural and wildlife
attractions. In the 1960s, however, favored by the increasing development
of relatively low-cost inclusive tours, African tourism expanded pro-
gressively to include middle-income vacationers in search of uncrowded
beaches. Such beach-motivated traffic, generally to a single destination,
was largely responsible for the rapid growth of tourism in Africa d-uring
the past decade when tourist arrivals increased at an annual rate of 13%
(as compared with an 8% annual growth rate worldwide).
5.07     Development of tourism accommodation in North Africa, a destin-
ation close to Europe but with a relatively short bathing season, started
in the early 1960s. Longer-haul West African destinations, with a bathing
season extending to winter months, started developing their assets only at
the beginning of' the present decade. Among emerging West African destina-
tions for sun and beach-based tourists, Senegal is one of the newesit and al-
ready best established. A survey of major European tour operators 1/ con-
cluded that Senegal's tourist attractions rate highest among those of West
African destinations and second only to those of Kenya and Morocco :Ln all
of Africa. Indeed, the country enjoys considerably lower humidity aLnd
much clearer skies than the Ivory Coast, Togo and Cameroon and virtually
no rain during the winter. Like The Gambia, the country offers attractive
and safe beaches and truly pleasant weather, but it is additionally favored
by colorful scenic contrasts, varied cultural attractions and a modern
capital that is among the leading metropolises in West Africa. Furthermore,
Senegal is the winter beach destination in West Africa nearest the mlain
European tourist-generating markets.
5.08.     Beach-'based tourism in Senegal started to develop early in 1973
when Neckermann opened a 500-bed tourist village on the Petite Côte. It
continued with the opening of the 140-bed Domaine de Nianing Hotel (1974);
the 100-bed expansion of Neckermann (1975) on the Petite Cote and the
opening of the 300-bed Club Mediterranée facility in Casamance (1974k).  The
progressive expansion of capacity on the Petite Cote and in Casamance did
not result in a decline in either occupancies or tariffs.  On the contrary,
occupancies and tariffs continued to climb (the latter even in real terms)
as these two destinations became more established on the international
market. The following table illustrates the evolution of capacities,
occupancies and tariffs at vacation villages on the Petite Cote and in
Casamance.
1/ The survey polled the views of 13 tour operators on such competitive
tactors as climate, beach quality, political stability, cuisine and
relative price competitiveness.



2 9
'etite Core                 Casamnance                 Total
Bed    Bed a/,Tariffs b/   Bed   Bed a/ Tariffs c/   Bed    Bed a/
Capacity  Occ.  US_  CFAF  Capacity Occ.  US$  CFAF  Capacity  Occ.
1973   500     55%   23  5,600        -     -     -       -    500      55%
1974   640     60%   25  6,100    300    45%   n.a. n.a.    940         55%
1975   740     62%   28  6,830    J00    48%   28  7,000  1,040         58%
1976   740    n.d .   31  7,500    300   n,d .   36  8,800  1,040    n.d .
a/ Occupancy computed over 365 days. During the six months it was open in
1974 and 1975, the Club Mediteranee in Casamance achieved occupancies of
89% and 94% respectively.
b/ Full board at Neckermann-run Aldiana Village (1973 to 1975) and Nianing
Village (1976).
c/ Full board at Club Mediterranee-run Cap Skirring Village.
Encouraged by these favorable trends, Club Mediterranee is now proposing a
100-bed expansion of its village in Casamance. 1/  The performance of the
Petite Côte as a rapidly emerging international resort was all the more re-
markable since it coincided with the 1973-74 economic recession irn major
tourism supplier markets.
5.09      Implementation of the accommodation development schedule referred
to in para. 5.01 at current occupancy levels assumes that bednights on the
Petite Cote would increase by 55,000 per annum during the 1975-85 period
(equivalent to a yearly growth rate of 15%). This target seems reasonable
in light of the favorable response of the market to the increase in accommo-
dation along the Petite Côte in the years 1973-75, when bednights increased
by 56,000 annually (73,000 in Petite Cote and Casamance combined). Given
the high rate of utilization of accommodation on the Petite C6te in peak
months (over 80%) in the 1973-75 period, it stands to reason that growth of
bednights would have been greater had more capacity been available.
5.10      At the national level, an incremental demand of 930,000 bednights
or 104,000 visitors would have to be attracted to Senegal by 1985 in order
to meet the combined requirements of the proposed development at Sali
Portudal and of nearly constructed or planned hotels elsewhere in the country.
Implied bednight and visitor annual growth rates for the country overall
would thus be 9.5% and 6% respectively. These growth rates appear plausible
when compared with past development trends of world tourism (7% per year
from 1965 to 1975), tourism on the African continent (11% per year from
1966 to 1975) and tourism in the West African region (16% per year from
1972 to 1975).  The following table sumnarizes demand and supply in Senegal
in 1975 and 1985:
/ Club Mediterranée has also recently negotiated the lease of the 600-bed
Almadies Hotel in Dakar.



- 30 -
Elsewhere
Petite Cûte   in Senegal   Total
1975    Beds in operation            740          2,660 a/   3,400 a/
Bednights ('000)             164            469        632
Occupancy rates (%)           61             48         51
1985    Beds in operation          3,300          4,700       8,000
Bednights ('000)             722            838      1,560
Occupancy rates (%)           60             49         53
a/ Excluding 800 beds which opened in late 1975 in Dakar
5.11      The facilities proposed at Sali Portudal would be mostly of .3-star
category. Projected full-board tariffs (CFAF 6,000 or US$24 in 1976 prices
net of sales tax and tour operatorst margins) are slightly below those
currently charged in existing vacation villages in Senegal.  Suggested
package prices for Sali Portudal would include one-, two- and three-week
vacations marketed through tour operators.  For the high season, a typical
eight-day/seven-night package on full board has been costed at US$500 :in-
clusive of air transport by charter.  This package tour price, equivalent
to the current minimum tour prices available for Senegal, compares favorably
with those in other competing winter destinations;
a/
Comparison of Tour Prices
(In 1975 dollars)
From:  France (Pariq}             From: Germany (Frankfurt)       _
No. of Pension                    No. of  'ension
Minimutm Maximuni  Pays   elan    Minimum. Mawdmpuxn  pays    Plan
Senegal          496     789       8    Full       515               8      Full
533     747       8    Ralf         -         -     -
Ivory Coast      644     789       8    Full       596       612     8      Full
667     780       8    Xalf         -        -      -         -
Cameroon         661   1,100       8    Full                   -     -         -
668     778       8    Ralf         -         -     -
Kenya            511     856       8    Full       334       678     8      Full
596     778       8    lHalf      336      554      8     lialf
Thailand           -       -       -       -       596       747     8      Full
738     800       8    lialf      436      676      8     Half
a/ Includes air transportation.  Alh  prices per person for double occupancy.
Sources; France - Jet Tours, Africatour, Vacances 2,000, le Tourisme
Fran§ais, Escotours, Planéte
Germany - Touropa, jKaufhof Reisen, Neckermann Fernreisen



- 3.Li -
5.i2      Tne commercial success of the Sali Portudal project wil' be en-
hanced if operators from all origir.ating countries can use charter flights
to bring tourists to Senegal.  As stated above, only charters froai Switzer-
iand and Germany are allowed on a regular basis at present. During appraisal,
the Government indicated its intention to authorize air charter operation for
companies from countries in addition to Germany and Switzerland. The Govern-
ment agreed to use its best efforts to permit before June 30, 1980 air charter
traffic to Dakar to the extent needed by full-scale operations at Sali Portudal.
5.13       Like those to most long-haul destinations, packages to Senegal
are relatively expensive and purchased primarily by higher-income segments
of the travel market. This could be both a strength and a weakness. On
the one hand, the select nature of Senegalese tourism resorts makes them
less vulnerable than lower-priced destinations to possible reductions in
disposable income in the tourism-generating markets. On the other hand,
it naturally tends to restrict their potential market. Consequently, the
risk exists that the market will not respond as favorably as in the past
to future substantial increases in accommodation capacity at Sali Portudal.
This could translate into either a slower accommodation build-up, or in
declining occupancy rates or in lower tariffs.  The ensuing impact of these
adverse events (taken both individually and in various combinations) on the
economic viability of the project is shown in Chapter VII, "Economic Justi-
fication."
VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
6.01      SAPCO would be financially responsible for the investments in Sali
Portudail except fcr water and sewerizge systems which would be the resDonsibility
of the Government.  Thus, SAPCO woiild he financïally responsible -or:
(a) the infrastructure investment in roads and parking lots,
streetlighting, power supply, telecommunications,
solid waste disDosal svstem, landscanine and irri:t1ton
components;
(b) the investment in common facilities;
(c) the expenditures for project administration; and
(d) the pilot hotel.
6.02      Even though power supply and telecommunications are revenue-
earning utilities, their extension to the project development from the
national network must be financed by the developer, namely SAPCO, as is
usual under Senegalese practice. The extensions would then be transferred
at no cost to the utilities - SENELEC and OPT respectively - for operation.
The end users, namely the varîous tourism enterprises, would then be billed
directly by the utility companies at their usual tariffs.  SAPCO, for its



- 32 -
part, would recoup investment costs of these components by incorporating
such costs in the charges for leasing land. Since the investment in the
M'Bour telephone exchange would upgrade the national network and benefit
the M'Bour region in general, the financial responsibility for tiis part
of the project rests with OPT.
6.03     Separate pro forma income statements were prepared for the pilot
hotel, for SAPCO's investment and Lor the water and sewerage components.
Consolidated sources and applications of funds and balance sheets for SAPCO's
operation are also presented.  Inflation rates of 8% per annum urtil 1980 and
of 6% afterwards were assumed.
A. Income Statement of the Pilot Hotel
6.04     The investment in the 250-bed pilot hotel, including interest:
during construction and project administration, amounts to CFAF 1,080 million
or US$4.4 million and represents 24% of the project cost. A detailed financial
analysis has been carried out for the pilot hotel whose operations are ex-
pected to be representative of superstructure operations in Sali Portuldal.
The income projections were prepared following the TJniform System of Accounts
for Hotels and are based on the actual experience of hotels on the Pet:ite
Cote and other relevant areas in Senegal.
6.05     Bed occupancies have been forecast at 50% in the first year rising
to 60% in the third year of operations. Since most of the clientele is ex-
pected to arrive in groups, most rooms will be occupied by two persons so
that room occupancies will be only marginally higher than bed occupancies.
Year-round rates currently achieved in Senegal for rooms and meals have been
adopted, together with the assumptlor that practically all guests wou:Ld stay
on a full-board plan.  Expenditures for beverages, gift shop and other sales
(telephone, laundry) were calculated on a per guestnight basis. The resulting
average guestnight expenditures in the hotel are as follows (net of sales tax):
CFAF             US$
Room                 3,200            13.1
Fcod                 2,800            11.4
Beverages              800             3.3
Other                  400             1.6
Total             7,200            29.4
6.06     The departxuental expenses were estimated as ratios to departmental
sales.  A ratio of 35% was used for food and 30% for beverages.  The number
of employees per room averages 0.75 in existing hotels.  Based or. this ratio
and app'licable wage rates in Senegal, the department-al payrolls amount to
- ,9% of total sales including allowances for housing, meals and
transpcrt. The. category of "other direct expenses" includes cleaning supplies,
replacemenr of linen, china and glassware and agency commissions and represents



8%7 of total sales.  The ur.oiszriouted expense categories xeere calculated
using ratios based on experience in tihe area.  (Administrative and general
expenses were taken equal to 12% of sales; advertising and promotion 2% of
sales; heat, light and power 8% of sales; repairs and maintenance L.5% of
total investment.) The hotel was charged SAPCO's land rent and service
charge (para. 6.13). The fîixed provisions (exemption of import dur:ies, sales
tax for five years and income tax for eight years) of the incentives
legislation were applied. It was assumed that by the time the hotels would
have to pay sales taxes (after five years of operation) they would be in a
position to increase their rates by 10% SO that their receipts would remain
constant. The expectation that the project hotels would be able to charge
somewhat higher rates after Sali Portudal has become established on the
international market appears reasonable.
6.07       The pro forma income statement of the pilot hotel opera:ion on
page 34 has been prepared assuming that the proceeds of the Bank loan would
be onlent for 20 years, including 4.5 years' grace at an interest rate of
8.5%. All assets are depreciated over 25 years. Provision for replacements
amounts to one-third of tne investment over the life of the aseet. The hotel
would reach a steady gross operating profit of 23% after the second year of
operation. The financial (DCF) rate of return for the pilot hotel would be
9.0%.  The return on equity was computed assuming that the complementary
Government loan was an equity contribution. The return on equity X^would be
14.8% if the hotel is run by an individual manager and 7.6% if SAPCO hires a
management company.
6.03       The table on page 35 illiistrates the sensitivitv of the rate of
returr on the hotel investment and on the equity to variations in hotel
receipts, occupancies and investment cost. In addition, the rate of return
on equity would be sensitive to variations in the terms of the debt capital
and to the type of management contracts. Two debt capital structures have
been tested. The one reflects the terms of onlending of the proceeds of the
Bank loan to SAPCO (8.5% i.nterest rate over 20 years including 4.5 years of
grace covering 65% of the investment) and corresponds to the situation of
the pilot hotel.  The other reflects the terms a private investor can be ex-
pected to firnd in Senegai (25% of the investment financed at 12% irtterest



-, 34 -
Projected Income Statement for the Pilot Hotel
(CFAF mnillion)
Year                                        1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Revenues (1979 prices)
Accommodation                           184      203      221      221     221      221
Food                                    i61      176      193      193     193      193
Beverage                                 47       50       54       54      54       54
Other                                    23       25       28       28      28       28
Total                                415      454     496      496      496      496
Departmental Expenses (1979 prices)
Cost of sales                            76       82       88       88      88       88
Payroll                                  77       84       93       93       93      93
Other direct expenses                    33       37       40       40      40       40
Total                                186      203      221     221      221      221
Undistributed Expenses (1979 prices)
Administration & genleral                48       53       57       57      57       57
Advertising & promotion                    8       9       10       10       10      10
Heat, light & power                      32       35       38       38      38       38
Repairs & maintenance                    18       18       18       18       18      18
Total                                106      115      123     123      123      123
Local taxes                                9       9        9        9        9       9
Profit before ground rent &
service charge                       114      127      143     143      143      143
Land leases                              13       13       13       13       13      13
Service charge                           14       15       16       16      16       16
GOP (1979 prices)                        87       99      114      114      114     114
Less depreciation                         43      43       43       43       43      43
Net profit pilot hotel (1979 prices)  44          56       71       71       71       71
Adjusted to current prices                48      64       86       91       97     103
Interest                                 62       58       54       56       5,2     48
Income tax                                -        -        -        -        -       -
Net Income                                  (14)      6       32       35       45      55
Casil Fiow
Casn generazion (current prices)         94      113     138      147      155      165
Debt service                             62      105     101      103       99      140
'^-come ;ax                               -       -        -        _        -        _
LSec casr-, iow                          32        8       37      44       56       25
&37f! ofa1 revenues  %)                  21       22       23       23       23       23
2eat service coverage                   1.51    1.08    1.37    1.43    1.56    1.12



- 35 -
rate for a term of ten years with four years' grace (Central Bani dis-
counting) and 40% of the investment financed at 12% interest ratc for
a term of 18 years with four years grace (SOFISEDIT financing)).
l'ne rate of return on equity under each financial plan has been computed
with two assumptions concerning the payrment of management fees: no manage-
ment fees and a management fee (3% of sales and 15% of GOP):
Internai Rate of
Return on                 Internal Rate of
Overall investment           Return on Eguity
Including     No Management
Management Fee        Fee
(1) (2)        (1)    (2)
Best estimate                   9.0                   7.6  5.1        14.8   11.2
Hotel receipts + 10%           12.0                  12.9  9e6       21.2   17.0
- 10%          5.5                   1.8  0.3         7.7    5.2
Occupancy + 20%                12.5                  13.4 10.0       ?2.2   17.9
- 10%                7.2                   4.8  2.7       11.0    8.0
Invest.ment cost + 10%          7.6                   5.6  3.4       12.0    8.8
(1)  Assuming long-teri deot at 8.5% interest rate over 20 years
including 4.5 years of grace ! covering 65% of the investment
(2)  Assumingdebt financing covering 65% of the investment as
follows:  25% for a term of 10 years at a 12% interest rate(Central Bank
discounting), 40% for a term of 18 years with 4 years' grace at a
12% interest rate (SOFISEDIT terms)
The sensitivity analysis above indicates that financial returns in constant
terms Doth on the overall ir.vestment and on equity are particularly sensi-
tîve to changes in notel occuDancy rates and tariffs.  Thus a significant
decrease in eirner of these  èeterminants of hotel revenues could lead to
returnis u:atzractive to -S-invesLors, - situation which might occur if the
demanG did not keep pace witli he "roposed development of accommodation
capacity.  in order to reduce ,he risk that this situation occurs, the
Governme-nt agreed thaz no incer.tives wil' be granted to any competing ûew hotel
development which might jeopardize cne financial viability of the propose1
developmenc in Sali Portudal. As its initial task, the EAPU will---in consulta-
tion with the Bank--establïsh the criceria that will be used to determine whether
competing developments jeopardize the financial viability of thne Sali development.



- 36 -
B.  Financial Analysis cf SAPCO
6.09     The investment considered in this analysis includes all SAPCO
investment (except for the water and sewerage components); it amounts to
CFAF 2,993 million (or US$:L2.2 million) and represents 66% of project in-
vestment.
6.1.0    SAPCO's financial objectives would bei
(a)  to recover its investments including those in the
power and telecommunications components which
would be transferred at no cost to SENELEC and OPT;
(b)  to earn a satisfactory rate of return on its in-
vestments; and
(c)  to maintain adequate debt service coverage.
6.11     The following table summarizes SAPCO's estimated sources anci
application of funds during the construction period to June 30, -1980,
1977-1980
CFAF Million     US$ Million
Financial Requirements
Construction expenditure, including
project administration:
Pilot hotel                              1,007              4.11
Other SAPCO coDmponents                  1,609              6.56
2,616             10.68
Working capital                              171              0.70
Interest during construction                 206              0.84
Total Requirements                       2                 12.22
Sources
Proceeds IBRD loans                        2,043              8.34
Government equily                            350              1.43
Government loan                              600              2.45
Total Sources                            2,993             12.22
This financial plan is based on the understanding confirmed during negotiations
that SAPCO wouid be exempt from import duties and value-added taxes.



6.12     SAPCO's p.aro foa ;'come s tatement (page 38) has been prepared
on the following assumptions:
(a)  SAPCO would earn revenues from:
(i) leases of land and property;
(ii) service charge payments by hotels on a bednight
basis to cover the use of common facilities
and services performed by SAPCO (e.g., street-
lighting, solid waste disposal);
(iii)  fees paid by other entrepreneurs such as taxi
or fishing boat owners; and
(iv) operations of the pilot hotel.
(b) SAPCO's costs based on consultants' estimates would include:
(i) administrative expenses amounting to 10%
of sales;
(ii) maintenance expenses equal to 2% of gross
fixed assets;
(iii)  expenses for utilities; and
(iv) promotion expenses during the first two years of
operation.
6.13     The levels at which SAPCO will set the leases, charges and fees
to achieve the objectives mentioned in para 6.12 would be attractive to
hotel investors. SAPCO agreed to prepare and discuss with the Bank the
methodology for calculating leases and service charges by December 31, 1978.
For analytical purposes, land leases were assumed at CFAF 40,000 or US$163
per bed per year and the service charge at CFAF 250 or US$1.0 per bednight.
These leases and service charges are comparable to those existing in com-
peting destinations.
6.1i     The income statement has been prepared assuming that the proceeds
of the Bank loan would be onlent for 20 years including 4.5 years' grace
at an interest rate of 8.5%. All assets are depreciated over 25 years. The
projections reflecting market conditions as to the timing and level of land
and property leases indicate that SAPCO would earn an 8.9% DCF rate of return
on its operation.  By 1983, when the project would be fully operational, the
return on net assets wouLG be about 11% and would meet the financial objectives
outlined in para. 6.12.  The Government agreed tnat commencing with FY 1986
SAPCO would earn a rate of return on properiy valued net assets in operation
of not less than 8%, which should give SAPCO sufficient debt service and
interest coverages; additaonally, t-hat SAPCO would not pay dividends if such
dividends would reduce SAPCO's working capital to less than 1.5 times its
debt due the following year.



- 38 -
SAPCO
Est-Lmated Inc1ome Statement
(CFAF million)
Year                              1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Revenues (1979 prices)
Land leases                     34       71      101      126      126      126
Property leases                 19       28       28       28       28       28
Service charge                  41       88      128      162      169     171
Fees                             5       il       1.6      20       21       21
Total Revenues                99      198     273       336     344      346
Operating Expenses (1979 prices)
Administration                  26       34       35       35       35       35
Maintenance                     33       33       33       33       33       33
Utilities                       16       23       23       23       23       23
Promotion                        4        4        -        -        -        -
Depreciation                    35       70       70       70       70       70
Total Operating Expenses  114         164     161      161      161      .161
NET OPERATING INCOME
(1979 prices)                   (15)      34      112      175     183      185
Adjusted to current prices         (16)     39      136      226      251      268
Net profit pilot hotel (1979
prices)                         44       56       71       71       71       71
Adjusted to current prices        _6 6_              86       91       97      103
TOTAL NET OPERATING REVENUE         32     103      222      317      348      371
Interest-proceeds IBRD loans   128         174      163      152      141      1.30
-Government loan            -       -        -       32       32       32
Total Interest               128      174      163      184      173     162
Income tax                    _         -        -      _        _          -
NET INCOME                         (96)    (71)      59      133      175      209
Times interest covered by
net operating income            0.25    0.59    1.36    1.72    2.01    2.29



6.15     SAPCO's estimated sources and applications of funds are shown on
page 40.  The sources of funds for constructlion and working capi_al, apart
from the proposed Bank loans, are:  (a)  a Government equity con,:ribution of
CFAF 350 million; and (b) a boan of CFAF 600 million bearing a 5.5% interest
with a maturity of 11 years includ.ng a grace period of 6 years. Reim-
bursement of the complementary loan would be subordinated to reimbursement by
SAPCO of the proceeds of the IBRD loans.  In ary given year SAPCO would
repay the complementary loan only if by doing so, it would not reduce its
current assets to less than 1.5 times its current liabîlities (iuicluding
the debt service due the following year). The Goverrnment agreed to pay the
increased equity and the complementary loan as follows:
Date                    Eguity        Complementary Loan          Toaal
(CFAF million)
Before October 1977       175                   75                  ,50
Before October 1978        87.5                212.5                300
Before October 1979        87.5                212.5                300
Before October 1980        _                   100                  100
Total               350                 600                   950
The table on page 40 indicates a satisfactory interest coverage of 2.3
by 1985. However, in order to preserve a good financial positionl, SAPCO
agreed not to incur further debt without Bank approval unless its current
revenues are sufficient to cover future debt service at least 1.5r times.
6.16     Projected balance sheets (page 41) show a satisfactory Tposition
in 1985 when it is possible to start reimbursing the complementary
Government loan. In presenting the balance sheets, fixed assets and de-
preciation have been revalued to reflect the anticipated inflation mentioned
in para. 6.03.



- 40 -
SAPC0
Projected Sources and Ap lications of Funds
(CFAF mil ion)
YEAR                                    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources
Net operating revenues-hotel         -      -       -     48      64      86     91      97    103
-other       -      -       -    (16)    39    136    226    251    268
Depreciation            -hotel       -      -       -     46      49     52      55      57     62
-other       -      -       -     37      80     84      90      95    100
Subtotal                          -      -       -    115    232    358    462    500    533
Less:  Taxation                      -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Internal cash generation             -      -       -    115    232    358    462    500    533
Equity Contribution                   175     87      88       -      -       -       -      -       -
Loans
Proceeds of IBRD loans             228    607    885    323        -       -      -       -       -
Government loan                     75    213    212    100        -      _       -       -      _
Total Loans                  303    820  1,097    423         -      -       -      -       -
TOTAL SOURCES                            478    907  1,185    538    232    358    462    500    533
Application of Funds
Construction expenditures             432    839  1,085    260        -       -       -      -       -
Working capital                        36      23    (-8)   107    (-8)    63    146    195         89
Debt Service
Interest
Proceeds of IBRD loans              10     45    108    171    174    163    152    141    130
Government loan                      -      -       -       -      -       -     32      32      32
Total Interest                  10      45    108    171    174    163    184    173    162
Amortization
Proceeds of IBRD loans               -      -       -       -     66    132    132    132    132
Governmment loan                     -      _       -       -      -       -      -       -    150
Total Amortization                -      -       -      -      66    132    132    132    282
Total Debt Service                     10     45    108    171    240    295    316    305    444
TOTAL APPLICATION                        478    907  1,185    503    232    358    462    500    533



SAPCO
Estimated Balance Sheets
(CFAF million)
YEAR                                   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Assets
Fixed Assets
Pilot hotel                         -      -       -  1,167  1,237  1,311  1,390  1,473  1,561
Less:  Depreciation                     -          -     46      95    147    202    259    321
-      -      -  1,121  1,142  1,164  1,188  1,214  1,240
Other fixed assets                  -      -       -  1,880  1,993  2,112  2,239  2,373  2,516
Less:  Depreciation                _       _       -     37    117    201    291    386    486
-      -      -  1,843  1,876  1,911  1,948  1,987  2,030
Total net fixed assets
in operation                   -      -       -  2,964  3,018  3,075  3,136  3,201  3,270
Work in progress                  442  1,326  2,519        -      -       -      -       -      -
Working capital                    36      59     51    158    150    213    359    554    643
TOTAL ASSETS                            478  1,385  2,570  3,122  3,168  3,288  3,495  3,755  3,913
Capital & Liabilities
Equity
Shareholders' equity              175    262    350    350    350    350    350    350    350
Revaluation reserve                 -       -      -    225    408    601    807  1,024  1,255
Retained earnings                   -       -      -    (96)  (167)  (L08)    25    200    409
Total Equity                   175    262    350    479    591    843  1,182  1,574  2,014
Loans
Proceeds of IBRD loans            228    835  1,720  2,043  1,977  1,845  1,713  1,581  1,449
Covernment loan                    75    288    500    600    600    600    600    600    450
Total Loans                    303  1,123  2,220  2,643  2,577  2,445  2,313  2,181  1,899
TOTAL CAPITAL & LIABILITIES             478  1,385  2,570  3,122  3,168  3,288  3.495  3_755  3,913
Return on net fixed assets (%)             -      -       -   1.1    3.4    7.2   10.1   10.9   11.3
Debt/Equity ratio                          -      -       -  85/15  81/19  74/26  66/34  58/42  49/51



- 42 -
C.  Incorme St8LetneI. for tne Water and Sewerage Components
6.17     The inveXstment in the water supply and sewerage systems amounts
to CFAF 573 million or 'US$:2.3 million, representing 13% of proje-:t cost.
Water demand has been projiected on the basis of an average consumption of
800 liters per guestnight, including landscape irrigation. In the villages,
80% of the people would be served by public standpipes and consume 2.5 liters
per day; the remaining 20% wouLd benefit from private connections and con-
sume 80 liters per day.  Village ccinsumption is projected to inc.?ease by 5%
annualLy. Water leakage has been assumed at 15% of total water usage.
6.18     The pro forma income statement projections have been esiablished
on the assumption that hotel operators wouldpay the fuli_cost of water
(CFAF 140 per m  in 1979 prices 1/), while villagers \who account for
35% oi' total water consumption) would receive the water free.  Sewerage
income was estimated at CFAF 57 per m3.  It was also assumed tha- the
treated water would be sold for irrigation purposes at CFAF 20 per
operating costs are derived from the cost incurred by SONEES in the operation
of small-scale systems.  A1. assets have beenr depreciated over 25 years.  The
projections show that the water and sewerage components would ea,n an annual
financial rate of return or. the investment of 9% or more starting with FY 1984,
The Government agreed that SONEES would set its water and sewerage clharges
at levels such that coomenc,ing with FY 1986 SONEES would earn a return of 8%
on its net water and sewerage assets in operation.
D. Accounts and Audits
6.19     The Government agreed that:
(a) SAPCO would establish before January 1979 and maintain
within an adequately staffed accounting department and
with assistance of consultants agreeable to the Bank,
two sets of commercial accounts, one for the Sali
Portuda:L infrastructure (except the water and sewerage
systems) and commron facilities and the other for the
pilot hotel;
(b)  SONEES would esta'blish before June 30, 1978 and maintain
separate commercial accounts for the Sali Portudal water
system;
(c)  these three sets of accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors, acceptable to IBRD; and
(d)  the audited accounts and report would be submitted to
the Bank no later than six months after the close of each
fiscal year.
_l ?nis compares with CFAF 115 charged by SONEES in 1975.



-43-^
Water and Sewerage components
Estimated Income Accounts
(CFAF million)
Year                               1980      1981     1982      1983    1984     1985     1986
Water sales ('000 m )              138       225      326      412      430      434      438
Revenues - (1979 prices)
Water                           19.2      31.5     45.6     57.8    60.2      60.8     61.3
Sewerage treatment              6.0       15.0    23.0      28.0    29_.      29.0     29.0
Total                       25.2      46.5      68.6     85.8    89.2     89.8      90.3
Operating Expenses (1979 prices)
Salaries                         2.5       4.6      6.9      8.6      8.9      9.0      9.0
Maintenance                      6.2       6.7      7.2       7.7     8.2      8.3      8.5
Power                            2.9       4.3      5.9      7.3      7.7      7.8      7.9
Tax                              2.0       3.0      4.3      5.3      5.5      5.7      5.8
Depreciation                   10.8       21.6     21.6     21.6    21.6      21.6     21.6
Total operating expenses    24.4       40.2     45.9     50.5    51.9      52.4     52.8
Net Operating Income (1979 prices) 0.8        6.3     22.7      35.3    37.3     37.4     37.5
Adjusted to current prices          0.9       7.2     27.5     45.4    50.8      54.0     57.5
Net assets                         571       580      588       695     602      607      611
Rate of return                     0.2       1.2      4.7       6.5     6.2      8.9      9.4



- 44 -
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project is designed to provide basic infrastructure and other
facilities to support a major tourism development. The investment program
to be justified includes the infrastructure, common facilities, pilot hotel,
irrigation and Gorée renovation to be financed under the proposed project
and in addition, the superstructure facilities (e.g., hotels, shops) which
are expected to be developed by the private sector to serve the Sali I'ortu-
dal visitors. All costs and revenues are in 1976 prices.
A. Benefits of Tourist Activities
7.02      The gross benefits, resulting from the development of tourismn
facilities would be the expenditures in the project area of tourists 'who
stay in the resort accommodation facilities. In the existing vacation
villages, occupancies are high year round.  The project is not expected
to divert traffic from the existing beach-based hotels. As for hotels in
Dakar, they cater predominantly to an altogether different market consisting
of business visitors and vacationers on multiple-stop tours of Africa. Con-
sequently, the visitor bednights in the project area have been assumed to
represent incremental tourism traffic to Senegal as a whole, rather than a
diversion of demand from existing destinations in the country.
Investment Cost Assumptions
7,03      Investment costs for the infrastructure components of the project
have been derived from the construction cost estimates described in Chapter II.
The investment costs for hotels (CFAF 3.4 million or US$13,900 equivalent per
bed) are derived from the historic cost of similar accommodations in Senegal.
Investment costs of facilities outside the resort which cater to Sali Portudal
visitors (e.g., shops and restaurants) have been estimated on the basis of an
incremental capital/sales ratio of 0.5, as calculated by consultants on the
basis of experience in the area.  The investment costs (excluding repliacements)
of the project amount to CFAF 11,800 million (US$48.2 million) brcken down
as follows:



- 45 -
CFAF Million   As % of Tota:
Infrastructure Development a/ 1i843                        15.6
Sali Portudal infrastructure            1,341
Gorée renovation                          410
M'Bour telephone exchange                  92
Superstructure Development                9,992            84.4
Hotels b/                               8,781
Common facilities c/                      341
Investments outside the
project area d/                          870
Total                            11,835           100.0
a/ Net of taxes
b/ Including working capital and preopening expenses
c/ Facilities financed under the project and detailed in Chapter III
d/ E.g., investment in shops, handicrafts production and transportation
outside Sali Portudal
The following replacement expenditures were assumed:
Annual Replacement Rate
Type of Work                                  % of Original Investmient
Infrastructure                                           2
Hotels                                                   1
Common facilities                                        3
Investment outside Sali Portudal                         3
7.04      Economic costs of superstructure operations are derived from the
projected financial accounts of hotels, restaurants and other facilities
which in turn are based on actual accounts of similar establishments in
Senegal. l/ Incremental gross operating profits of utility companies gen-
erated by servicing the Sali Portudal accommodation have been assumed to
cover the maintenance expenses of the Sali Portudal utilities works and
have therefore been excluded from rate of return calculations. The oper-
ating and maintenance costs of nonrevenue-earning infrastructure items
(such as streets, streetlighting and landscaping) as well as the costs of
services such as solid waste disposal and environmental sanitation are in-
cluded in the operating costs of SAPCO. 2/ The share of Senegalese tourism
l/ These estimates were prepared by consultants and verified in the field.
2/ These are shown in the projected income statement of SAPCO (Chapter VI).



- 46 -
promotion and training costs attributable to the project, estimated at 1%
and 2% respectively of the gross receipts 2J from visitors and arounting to
CFAF 54 million in 1979 rising to CFAF 171 million from 1984 on, have been
included in the rates of return computation.  Incremental airport costs
have been assumed to be covered by increased airport revenues and both are
excluded from the calculations.
Benefit Assumptions
7.05      The gross benefits to the economy resulting from the project
would be the expenditures of tourists attracted to the Sali Portudal area.
In sensitivity tests, the gross benefits to the economy were adjusted
downward to account for possible tariff reduction and slower accomnmodation
build-ups. The benefits associated with the irrigation component and the
provision of utilities to the neighboring villages are minor and qave not
been quantified.  The benefits generated by the investment in Gorée have
been taken into account only to the extent that they appear in the pro-
jected expenditures of Sali Portudal visitors (e.g., in the excursion ex-
penditures).  F.ven using this conservative approach, the proposed invest-
ment in Goree would yield a satisfactory rate of return.  Nonetheless, the
major justification for the investment in Goreée is the preservation of an
area of cultural and historical importance which enhances Senegal's attrac-
tiveness as a tourist destination.
7.06      Although development of Sali Portudal beyond the 2,500 hotel beds
planned under this first phase will require additional infrastructure in-
vestment, it will make use of some of the infrastructure provided under the
project (such as the main power, water, sewerage and telecommunications
lines, streets and access roads). Thus, a share of the benefits resulting
from development of the Sali Portudal area beyond the capacity planned in
the first phase would be properly attributable to the present project. To
the extent that these benefits have not been included in the computation of
the rates of return, these rates are underestimated.
7.07      The experiditures of visitors to Sali Portudal have been estimated
on the basis of tourist expenditures at similar facilities in Senegal and
competing destinations. Visitors to Sali Portudal would spend an average
of CFAF 10,400 (US4,42) per guestnight. 2/ The breakdown of average daily
expenditures is summarized below:
1/ The 1% share of promotionai experses compares with 0.6% of gross receipts
spent by the authorities in 1974. The training costs amounting to
CFAF 114 million in 1984 and thereafter are based on an annual cost of
about CFAF 83,000 per employee.
2/ This amount corresponds approximately to the average daily expenditure
per tourist in 1974 (para. 1.07), adjusted to 1976 prices.



- L7 -
Breakdown of Exrder.dt,ures to Sali Portuda:l
Uotels       Outside `dotels           Total
CFAF    US$      CFAF   US$       CFAF    US$    %
Accoiimodations, food
and beverages          6,800   27.8        600  2.5       7,400   30.3   71
Shopping                     -    -        1,500   6.1      1,500    6.1   14
Sports and
entertainment              -    -          400  1.6         400    1.6    4
Excursions and other
transportation             -    -          600  2.5         600    2.5    6
Other a/                   400    1.6        100   0.4        500    2.0    5
Total                 7,200   29.4      3,200 13.1    10,400   42.5  100
a/ Includes telephone, laundry, etc.
Gross Operating Profits
7.08      The gross operating profits projected for the main categories of
visitor expenditures are shown in the table on page 48 for the year 1983
when all the hotels and other facilities are in operation.
Shadow Price Considerations
7.09      Given the extent of unemployment and underamployment on the
Petite Côte and in Senegal in general, the opportunity cost of unskilled
labor is likely to be lower than wages received by employees in the project
hotels. The economic cost of unskilled labor is assumed equal to 50% of its
monetary value. Since wages received by the unskilled labor force employed
in the hotels amount to 30% of the total wage bill paid by hoteliers, the
base case rate of return computation weighs the hotel wage bill with a
shadow price of 0.85. All receipts are assumed to be in foreign exchange.
The foreign exchange component of capital ihvestments is based on the
project costs and other mission estimates. The official exchange rate was
used because no estimates of the shadow exchange rate were available. For
illustrative purposes, however, a sensitivity test was made with i:he use of
a 20% premium on foreign exchange. The use of the land was valued at the
benefits foregone in agriculture (US$200,000 per year).
Internal Rate of Return
7.10      Each project facility and equipment will have a different economic
life.  For purposes of rates of return calculations, however, a d,scounting



Average Daily Visitor Expenditures             Gross Operating Profit
In Hotels  Outside   Total            Hotels            Outside            Total
CFAF      CFAF       CFAF        CFAF       _      CFAF        %      CFAF       %
Accommodation, food
and beverages         6,800 a/    600       7,400       1,656 b/  23 b/    180       30      1,836 b/  24 b/
Shopping                     -     1,500      1,500           -       -        525     35        525      35
Sports and
entertainment             -        400        400           -       -        80      20         80      20
Co
Excursions and                                                                                                             o
other                                            -        -                    -
Transportation               -       600        600           -       -        180     30        180      30
Other                     400        100        500           -b/   -b/         33     33         33 c/  33 c/
Total               7,200      3,200    10,400        1,656 b/  23 b/    998       31      2,654      25
a/ Includes CFAF 6,000 for accommodation and food
b! Gross operating profit of "other" expenditures in hotels is input to the gross operating profit of
expenditures on accommodation, food and beverages in hotels
c/ Excludes gross operating profit of "other" expenditures in hotels



norizon of 30 years was chose-n wit', no  -esi aual values.  With tne previous
assumptions; the internai econoxnic rate of return on the project would be
16.1%. Assumxing that about three-quarters of t4e equity and the debt cap-
ital for hotel investmnent would conre from abroad, and that three-*quarters
of the hotels would be foreign-managed, the rate of return on the national
investment outlays for tne tourism-reiated works (including the IBRD loan)
would be 18.8%. This rate is higher than the rate of return of tte overall
project because foreign hotel investors would not benefit froem tourist ex-
penditures outside the hotels and would receive an after-tax return lower
than the rate of return of the overali project. Since the return on both
the overall investment and the Senegalese funds in it (including ,he IBRD
loan) are quite satisfactory, the project is acceptable under any reason-
able assumption about its impact on foreign capital inflow into the economy.
Sensitivity
7.11      The rate of return would be sensitive to changes in investment
costs, gross operating profits, the timing of hotel development, hotel re-
ceipts and shadow pricing of foreign exchange. Rates of return resulting
from alternative assumptions for each of these variables have beefn computed
and are summarized below:
Rate of Return
Best estimate                                          15.8
Without shadow pricing of labor                        13.9
Investment cost + 20%                                  12.9
Gross operating profits
+ 10%                                               17.5
- 10%                                               14.1
IHotel development at
over Il years                                       14.0
over 15 years                                       13.1
Shadow pricing of foreign exchange
(20% premium)                                       20.8
a/ Instead of five years in base case
7.12      The rate of return is most sensitive to changes in the shadow
price of foreign exchange and labor and to a lesser extent, to the pace of
hotel development and to the level of hotel receipts.



- 50 -
B. Distribution of Project Benefits
7.13      rhe three main beneficiaries of the project would be;
(a)  the Government;
(b) the workers to be employed in tourism activities
and the residents of villages which would be
provided with improved utilities; and
(c) the private investors in hotels and related
tourism facilities.
7.14      The following table indicates the distribution of benefits
directly generated by the Sali Portudal development:
Share of Investments        Share of Benefits
Government direct]y or
through SAPCO                          41 b/                      43
Hotels                                   49                         37
Other private a/                         10                         20 c/
Total                                100                        100
ai Includes common facilities in resort area plus other
facilities outside such as shops, taxis, etc.
b/ Includes Gorée investment
c/ Includes benefit:s from excursions to Gorée
7.15       The Government would benefit both directly and indirectly from
its investment in the area. In addition to the direct earnings through
SAPCO, the Government would receive sales taxes on the expenditures of
tourists for accommodations, food, beverages and souvenirs, indirect taxes
and duties on items purchased by the tourism industry, as well as income
taxes on firms and individuals engaged directly in the tourism sector.
Government budgetary expenditures for the project would include the cost
of vocational training and the share of the Government's tourism promotion
attributable to the project.  The following table summarizes the Govern-
ment's projected budgetary receipts and expenditures for selected years:



Receipts
Sales and                  Net Budgetary
Expenditures  Income Taxes   Other Taxes         Total        Position
CFAF    US$   CFAF    USe   CFAF    US$   CFAF    US$   CFAF    US$
Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil    Mil
1979/80     54    0.2       35    0.1.    87    0.4    122    0.5        68    0.3
1985/86    171    0.7    306    1.2    366    1.5    672    2.7    501    2.0
1990/91    171    0.7    629    2.6    366    1.5    995    4.1    824    3.4
Taking into account the net budgetary receipts and the net income from
SAPCO's operations, the internal rate of return to the Government on its
investment would be 14.5%.
7.16      The workers (and their families) who are employed in tourism activ-
ities as a result of the project would benefit primarily from the higher wage
levels in tourism as compared with those in agriculture. The investment in
village improvements and the irrigation component would benefit the area's
inhabitants including those not directly involved in the tourism sector. The
private hotel investors are estimated to obtain DCF returns on total capital
invested in hotels of about 9% in constant terms (para. 6.08). The DCF re-
turn on capital investment outside hotels (shops, restaurants, nightclubs,
etc.) would be somewhat higher.
C. Balance of Payments
7.17      The foreign exchange costs of the proposed project would be
covered by the IBRD loan. The foreign exchange costs of the accommodation
facilities would amount to 68% of their investment costs and would roughly
be covered by the anticipated foreign capital inflow from foreign investors
and lenders.
7.18      From 1979 on, the expenditures of foreign tourists are projected
to result in substantial inflows of foreign exchange earnings, as indicated
in the table below. The outflow of foreign exchange as a result of the
project's operations would include the import component of operating costs
for hotels and other superstructure activities, and also the import component
of replacement costs. Additional outflows of foreign exchange would be re-
quired in arder to service foreign debt (both the IBRD loan and the foreign
loans obtained from hotels) and for the payment of dividends to foreign
equity investors. These foreign exchange receipts and costs are sunmmarized
below for selected years (CFAF/US$ millions, in constant prices):
F.E. Receipts    F.E. Costs    Net Impact on Balance of Payments
Year        CFAF    US$      CFAF   US$      CFAF    US$  % of F.E. Receipts
1978/79      759    3.1       479   2.0       279    1.1            37
1981/82   4,232   17.2    1,290   5.3    2,942   11.9               70
1986/87   5,694   23.2    2,050   8.4    3,643   14.8               64



- 52 -
D. .Employment Effects
7.19      The development of hotels and other superstructure facilities is
expected to generate a substantial number of jobs in the Petite Cote area,
as shown in the table below.  During implementation of the project, there
will also be a sizable number of construction workers employed in the project
area. In addition to employment generated directly in the hotels, shops,
nightclubs, restaurants and excursion activities, an estimated two indirect
jobs for every direct job are expected to be created in related sectors
(such as handicrafts, agriculture, food processing, furniture manufacturing,
distribution, etc.). The employment projections for selected years are
summarized in the table below:
Rotels and Related      Construction   Indirectly in
Year      Commercial Activities       Industry     Other Sectors   Total
1979/80              400                440              580        1,420
1983/84            1,225                120            1,880        3,225
1985/86            1.,225                30            1,880        3,135



- 53 -
VIII.  SaCZ:  1.2ACT
8.01      The project includes a number of works specifically directed
toward improving the living conditîons of the population ln the Sali
Portudal area;
(a)  four villages in the area would be provided w1th free
water service since the corresponding charges *vould
be borne by the hotels; similarly, Sali Portudal would
be provided with free sewerage service;
(b)  site and services would be provided for the expansion
of Sali Portudal village; and
(c)  20 ha of irrigated area, which would produce fruit and
vegetables for the tourist complex, would create em-
ployment opportunities for 40 families.
8.02      The project is not expected to have significant psycl.clTg'cal or
social costs. On the basis of the experience gathered from tlie operations
of existing villages, the influx of foreign visitors would be welcoîred by
tl-e Senegalese who have a reputation for hospitality and friendlinesE'.  The
workers would live in M'Bouir, a spontaneously growing city, and woulid nlot
be restricted to a "company town." M'Bour, within easy reach of the resort,,
wou'ld also be a popular excursion for visitors who would have an opportunit-v-
to participate in some aspects of Senegalese life.  Far from disruipting
traditîonal activities in the area, tlie tourismi developinent in Sali Portudal
is expected tc improve the life chances of the local residents by prrvidli-
an expanding market for local food and fish production.  At present, iimitted
agricultural activity takes place on the project site wlich belongs in the
national domain.  The Government wculd chtain the land needed for the pro.-
posed development by compensating the local pnpulation witli other land, ilu-
cluding the irrigated perimeter constructed under tlie project where fruit
and vegetables for tourist consumption would he grown.  The fishing activl-*
ties in Sali Portudal would not be harapered bv the developtent. At present,
fisi-ermen experience difficulties in marketing their catch.  Tourisin devel-
opment would provide them with a steady market for quality production. A
part of the Resort CoFmmi ttee's activity would be to promote food production
near the project site and to assist local farmers and fishermen in marketing
their products.
8.03      The Government is, however, poorly equipped to handle social prob-
lems which could arise around the resort. The project provides for the
services of a sociologist to monitor the impact of the project on the social
fabric of the M'Bour region and who would advise DGT and SAPCO on steps
aimed at ensuring that contacts between the population and the tourists
would result not in distrust and hostility but rather in understanding and
mutual respect.



- 54 -
IX.  AGREDIENTS REACHED AND RECOMMJNDATION
9.01     During negotiations, the Government agreed:
(a) to create, staff and fund an EAPU within DGT and refuse
the benefits of Law 72-43 for projects evaluated neg-
atively by EAPU (para. 1.13);
(b) to complete registration of Sali Portudal's land before
November 1, 1977, to lease it to SAPCO before January 1,
1978 and to give SAPCO the use of the land needed for
project implemenltation until December 31, 1977 (para. 2.06);
(c) to agree with the Bank before appointing expatriate
staff to EAPU and to provide qualified counterparts
(para. 2.30);
(d) to discuss the recommended marketing program with the
Bank before January 31, 1979 and to implement the agreed-
upon program on EL continuing basis (para. 2.30);
(e) on the timetable for the employment of consultants
(para. 2.32);
(f) to prepare a critical path network of all project works
before April 1, 1978 and ta review such network every
six months in consultation with the Bank (para. 3.04);
(g) to inform the Bank of any proposal to replace SAPCO's
president and to consult with the Bank on proposals
to change SAPCO's organization and to fill vacancies in
the positions of technical director, commercial director
and architect adviser (para. 3.08);
(h) to suspend authorization of any hotel investment in
sites on the Petilte Cote other than Sali Portudal until
completion of the accommodation build-up under the
proposed project, not to grant hotel investors else-
where in Senegal more favorable incentives than those
granted in Sali Portudal and to set lease rents for hotel
sites elsewhere in Senegal at levels comparable to those
in Sali Portudal (para. 5.02);
(i)  to make available necessary comnlementarv debt financing for
hotel investments (para. 5.03);
(j) to take steps to ensure that a minimum of 1,500 beds be
in operation by 1985 unless the Bank and the Government
agree otherwise because of inadequacy of the potential
market (para. 5.05);



- 55 -
(k)  to use its best efforts to permit before June 30,
1980 air charter traffic to Dakar to the extent
needed by full-scale operations at Sali Portudal
(para. 5.12);
(1)  not to grant incentives to any new hotel development
which would jeopardize the financial viability of the
Sali project (para. 6.0e);
(m)  that SAPCO would prepare and discuss with the Bank
the methodology for calculating leases and service
charges by December 31, 1978 (para. 6.14);
(n)  that SAPCO would earn an 8% return on net assets
commencing with FY 1986 (para. 6.14);
(o) on the disbursement schedule of the complementary
Government loan and a scliedule for paying in of
SAPCOes equity (para. 6.15);
(p)  that SAPCO would not pay dividends if such dividends
would reduce SAPCO's working capital to less than
1.5 times its debt due the following year (para. 6.14)
and would not incur further debt without Bank approval
unless its current revenues are sufficient to cover
future debt service at least 1.5 times (para. 6.1.5); and
(q) that SAPCO would establish before January 1979 and
maintain within an adequately staffed accounting de-
partment and with the assistance of consultants, two
sets of commercial accounts, one for the Sali
Portudal infrastructure and one for the pilot hotel;
that SONEES would establish before June 30, 1978 and
maintain separate commercial accounts for the Sali
Portudal water system; and that these three sets of
accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 6.19).
9.02     Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loans are:
(a) enactment of Sali Portudal's development plan (para. 2.05);
(b) promulgation of a decree initiating procedures for the
registration of Sali Portudal land,the signing of a
convention ge'ne'rale satisfactory to the Bank and
transfer of the Sali Portudal land to SAPCO (para.
2.06);
(c) selection of suitable management for the pilot hotel
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.21);



-- 56 -
(d)  signing of inleragency agreements (para. 3.03);
(e)  increase of SAPCO's subscribed equity by CFAF 350
million and the paying in of CFAF 87.5 million
(para. 4.06);
(f)  signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between
SAPCO and the Government (para. 4.06); ard
(g)  approval of a cahier des charges acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.04).
9.03     Conditions of cLisbursement of the related funds are:
(a)  Bank approval of a marketing program for the Relais
de l'Espadon (para. 2.28);
(b)  appointment within DUH of an architect in charge
of the Gorée works (para. 3.10); and
(c)  conclusic*r  of a subsidiary loan agreement between
OPT and the Government satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.07).
The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5.6 million
equivalent for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 4.5 years, and
for a Third Window loan of US$8 million equivalent on standard Third Window
terms.



APPENDIX
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Sector
1. Tourism statistics, 1973 through 1975
2. Note Technique - Le Secteur Tourisme
Quatrième Plan de Développement Economique et Social
(1973-77)
3. Market Study - Alfredo Balasso - April, May 1974
4. Les Investissements Touristiques au Sénégal - BCEAO - Dec. 1975
5i Investment Code
6. Enquê'te sur la Structure de la Demande Touristique et les
Préférences Déclarées des Touristes Visitant le Sénegal,
August 1974
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.  Développement Touristique de la Petite Cote - Study by the
UNDP consultants, Louis Berger>International
2. Plan Directeur de Rénovation de l'Ile de Gorée - Study by
UNESCO consultants, May 1975
3.  Aspects Juridiques et Financiers du Programme de Renovation
de l'Ile de Gorée - Study by UNESCO consultants, August 1975
4. Legal Background
Gor5e
Sali Portudal
Land Issues
Incentives
C. Selected Working Papers, Tables, Drawings, Maps
1. Cost estimates
2. Background on hotel and construction industries
3. Working papers on the sector
4. Working papers on the financial analysis
5. Working papers on the market aspects
6. Working papers on the economic analysis
7. Organization and statutes of SAPCO



PETITE COTE TOURISM PROJECT
F  L                  -`                                         ~~~~~~~SALI PORTUDAL LND USE PLAN 
PROJECT    PROJECT EXTENSION
-,//,', ji HOTELS
tMRCREATION, SPORT AND
ADMINISTRATIVE FACILITIES
COMMERCIAL FAC/LIT/ES                                     e
VILLAGE ErXTENSION 
~~~~~~~~~~~ o
PILOT HOTEL                                         E
PROJECT ROADS
PARKING AREAS
9  leSoloun   %00E                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING VILLAGE
/1, f   '1', Iî   I                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FUTURE ROADS
'y"                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COASTAL ROAD
B~    V  "'  AMBIA          '~'~ Ç                                                          CONTOUR  LINES IN m
Th,'bndre sh..n hnri, mnp do -11)
i,,,ply  enoçenn    or  ecptan<'e  hy  th,
Wo'ld Rask nnd its off/bore,.
k                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



3RD 12D34R
-_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                                               M  4 RC  H  19 76 
Y                 ~~~~~~BATTERY
PETITE COTE TOURISM PRO)ECT  V   ét                                             '    
. GOREE RENOVATION                                 \-g   
New HDTEL GARDEF   Ng
. HAREtR IMROVEMeNTS ; °E  ,  i< 
_ S  EXSTAING OV5                          É1   P                                       St     $      > 
;   MT-UR5    
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
/~~~                                ~Q                   o s1  F> At            
A4L«               YF -Si7 :S
,  ..............xs sJ   
. '>i   ...<G E
TDIF r  ,acern-a/ ... ;WE  
Eçotjdfond-sSltzr  I B i
~~,   PETITE COTE TUI,M PROJTIF,R . 'P//r 
HA4  ' M',CVtMeTSM     0                                  s       , ,



