CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1413-SE
Loan Agreement
(Petite C8te Tourism Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 7, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement (hereinafter called the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement) of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the said
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement by making a loan (hereinafter
called the Intermediate Term Loan) in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000) under
the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window established by
Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of the Bank;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project by making the present Loan (hereinafter called the Loan)
as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend that the proceeds of
the Intermediate Term Loan and of this Loan be disbursed pro rata
on the basis of a 6:4 ratio;
(D) Parts J and K (ii) through (vi) of the Project will be
carried out by the Borrower through DUH and DGT, respectively (as


﻿-2-
those terms are hereinafter defined), and Part C (i) and (ii) of
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower;
(E) Parts A, B, C (iii), D, E, F, G, H, K (i) and L of the
Project will be carried out by SAPCO (as this term is hereinafter
defined), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SAPCO a portion of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Intermediate Term Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(F) Part I of the Project will be carried out by OPT (as
this term is hereinafter defined) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to OPT a portion of the proceeds of the Loan and of the
Intermediate Term Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(G) the Bank is willing to make the Loan and the Intermediate
Term Loan available upon the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank, party of the first part, and SAPCO and OPT,
parties of the second part (all such parties of the second part
hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Beneficiaries);
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan and the Intermediate Term Loan to the
Borrower upon the term and conditions hereinafter set forth
in this Agreement which is the First Loan Agreement referred to in
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million six hundred thousand dollars ($5,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other
charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank.


﻿- 5 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for zhe purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
of the Intermediate Term Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The provisions of Article III of, and of
Sections 4.02 through 4.14 of, the Intermediate Term Loan
Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein;
provided, however, that: (i) all references to the First Loan
Agreement and to the First Loan in such Article and Sections or in
any one of them shall be deemed to be references to this Loan
Agreement and to this Loan, respectively; and (1i) all references
to the Loan Agreement, and to the Loan in such Article or Sections
or in any one of them shall be deemed to be references to the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement and to the Intermediate Term
Loan, respectively.
Section 3.02. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any


﻿-7-
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provisio. cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative


﻿-8-
subdivision thereof and of any equity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the fu:.ctions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that a default shall have
occurred under the Intermediate Term Loan Agreement other than in
respect of the payment of the principal, or interest, or any other
payment, required thereunder.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event specified in
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continua
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and to SAPCO and OPT.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Intermediate Term Loan Agreement have been fulfilled subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date October 5, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Rue Charles Latn6
B.P. 4017
Dakar, S6negal
Cable address:
MINFINANCES
Dakar
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By Is/ Andr4 Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERYATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Rager Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                            (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1982
through   October 15, 1996                     180,000
On April 15, 1997                                   200,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2.45%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                               4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                               6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen years
before maturity                               7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               8.20%


