r
LOAN NUMBER 1412-T-SE
jCUMEMS    J  LOAN NUMBER 1413-SE
Project Agreement
(Petite C8te Tourism Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT DE LA PETITE COTE
and
SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DE L' INDUSTRIE ET DU TOURISNE
Dated                            , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1412-T-SE
LOAN NUMBER 1413-SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     r- : - I Q             , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT, party of
the first part (such party hereinafter called the Bank) and
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT DE LA PETITE COTE (hereinafter called SAPCO)
and SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE
L'INDUSTRIEL ET DU TOURISME (hereinafter called SOFISEDIT),
parties of the second part.
WHEREAS (A) by two Loan Agreements, both dated June 7, 1977,
as amended   tI            , 1980 (hereinafter respectively called
the Loan Agreement and the First Loan Agreement), between the
Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower (i) an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million dollars
($8,000,000) under the Interest Subsidy Fund for the Third Window
established by Resolution No. 75-111 of the Executive Directors of
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan), and (ii) an amount in
various currencies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand
dollars ($5,600,000) (hereinafter called the First Loan), both on
the terms and conc'itions respectively set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the First Loan Agreement, as amended, but only on
condition that SAPCO and SOFISEDIT agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a SAPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement dated October 12,
1977, amended by an additional agreement dated January 14, 1978,
and to be re-entered into between the Borrower and SAPCO, a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan and of the First Loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement and the First Loan Agreement, as
amended, has been and will be made available by the Borrower to
SAPCO on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SAPCO and SOFISEDIT, in consideration of the Bank's
having entered into the Loan Agreement and the First Loan Agree-
ment, as amended, with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Loan
Agreement, in the First Loan Agreement, in the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
SOFISEDIT, on behalf of SAPCO, out of the proceeds of the Loan and
of the First Loan to an Investor for a Hotel Construction Project.
(b) "Investor" means an individual or a legal entity
to whom or to which SOFISEDIT, on behalf of SAPCO, proposes to
make or has made a Sub-loan.
(c) "Hotel Construction Project" means a hotel construction
project to be carried out on Sali resort by an Investor utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan, and whose equity is financed in part
by SAPCO under Part F (i) of the Project.
(d) "SOFISEDIT Statutes" means the Statuts of SOFISEDIT
dated March 19, 1974, as amended from time to time with the prior
approval of the Bank.
(e) "Statement of Policy" means the General Policy Regula-
tions approved by the Directors of SOFISEDIT on March 21, 1974, as
amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank.
(f) "General Lending Conditions" means the general condi-
tions applicable to medium- and long-term loans granted by
SOFISEDIT and approved by the Directors of SOFISEDIT on March 10,
1975, as amended from time to time.
(g) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority or
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by SOFISEDIT or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SOFISEDIT or by SOFISEDIT and one or more of its
subsidiaries.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SAPCO shall carry out Parts A, B, D, E, G, H, K
(i) and L, and SAPCO and SOFISEDIT, in close cooperation, shall
carry out Part F, of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, it being further understood that Part F (ii) of the Project
shall be carried out in accordance with SOFISEDIT Statutes,
Statement of Policy, General Lending Conditions and the policies
and procedures set forth in the Schedule hereto, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bor-
rower, the Bank, SAPCO and SOFISEDIT.
Section 2.02. In order to assist SAPCO: (a) in the prepa-
ration of plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and in
the supervision of the construction of, Parts A, B, D, E, G and H
of the Project; and (b) in the carrying out of Part K (i) of the
Project, SAPCO shall continue to employ appropriate consultants
and architects whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. 3xcept as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
of the First Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SAPCO undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the First Loan
relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by SAPCO to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, SAPCO shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and of the First Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SAPCO shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,


﻿contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
Parts A, B, D, E, G and H of the Project, respectively, as appro-
priate, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) SAPCO and SOFISEDIT shall, in respect of such parts
of the Project for which each is responsible: (i) maintain records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the First Loan relent to SAPCO
by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and
to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
of the First Loan so relent to SAPCO, the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, the Investors, the Hotel Construc-
tion Projects and the Sub-loans.
(c) SAPCO shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of SAPCO and any relevant records aid documents.
Section 2.06. SAPCO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Convention Generale and the SAPCO Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SAPCO
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Convention
Generale or the SAPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) SAPCO and SOFISEDIT shall, at the request
of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the
progress of the parts of the Project for which each is respon-
sible, the performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and under the SAPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as
appropriate, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan and of the First Loan.
(b) SAPCO and SOFISEDIT shall promptly inform the Bank
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of


﻿- 5 -
the Loan and of the First Loan, or the performance by SAPCO and
SOFISEDIT of their respective obligations under this Agreement,
and under the SAPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as appropriate.
Section 2.08. If the completion of the Project (except for
Part F (ii) of the Project) is hindered or delayed, or is threa-
tened with hindrance or delay, because the funds available to
SAPCO are inadequate to ensure its completion, SAPCO shall prompt-
ly demand that the Borrower provide SAPCO, or cause SAPCO to be
provided with the necessary funds on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank as and when required.
Section 2.09. SAPCO shall promptly furnish to the Bank
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation)
of the facilities included in Parts A, B, D, E, F, G and H of the
Project are available to SAPCO.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
of SAPCO and SOFISEDIT
Section 3.01. (a) SAPCO shall, at all times, manage its
affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate administrative, business,
financial, public utility and engineering practices, under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent personnel in adequate numbers.
(b) SOFISEDIT shall at all times conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in accor-
dance with its Statutes, Statement of Policy and General Lending
Conditions.
(c) If SOFISEDIT establishes or acquires any Subsidiary,
SOFISEDIT shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and perform the
obligations of SOFISEDIT under the Project Agreement to the extent
to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as
though such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
(d) Without limitation or restriction to the generality of
the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement:


﻿- 6 -
(i) before making any new appointment to the position
of technical director, financial director, or
senior consulting architect, SAPCO shall inform the
Bank of the names, qualifications and experience of
the persons considered for such appointment or
appointments and shall afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower and
SAPCO on the qualifications and experience of such
persons; and
(ii) SAPCO shall maintain its accounting department
under the supervision of a qualified and expe-
rienced accountant assisted by qualified and
experienced personnel in adequate numbers.
(e) In order to assist SAPCO in maintaining the accounts
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of the Project
Agreement, SAPCO shall, until the completion of the Project,
employ accounting consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank.
(f) SAPCO shall at all times operate, maintain, renew
and repair its facilities, plants, equipment, machinery and
property (including but not limited to all facilities, plants,
equipment, machinery and property financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and of the First Loan), and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering and public utility practices.
(g) SAPCO shall take all action within its power to maintain
its existence and right to carry on its operations and shall take
all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
(h) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SAPCO shall
obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and of the First Loan and made available to it free and clear of
all encumbrances.
(i) Except in the normal course of business SAPCO shall
not, without the prior approval of the Bank, sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which
shall be required for the efficient operation of its businesses
and undertakings.


﻿- 7 -
(j) To the extent that the responsibilities in respect
of management, operations and maintenance of the facilities
constructed under Parts D, G and H of the Project shall be trans-
ferred by SAPCO to a department or agency of the Borrower or to
any other successor organization or entity, SAPCO shall make
appropriate arrangements, or cause appropriate arrangements to
be made: (i) to ensure that such facilities shall be operated,
maintained, renewed and repaired, as and when required, and that
such service shall be provided, in accordance with appropriate
business, financial, administrative and engineering practices; and
(ii) to cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. SAPCO shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. SAPCO shall take all such action as may be
required to ensure that whenever land is made available by SAPCO
or through SAPCO acting in the name and on behalf of the Borrower,
through a sale, a lease, assignment of lease, a transfer, or any
other form, to Investors or developers making Tourism Investments,
such land shall be made available by SAPCO to such Investors or
developers on terms and conditions (including inter alia the terms
and conditions set forth in the Convention Generale and the
Cahiers des Charges) acceptable to the Bank whereby SAPCO shall
obtain by written contract with such Investors or developers or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interest of the Borrower and of SAPCO, including the right:
(i) to charge prices to be determined at a level
sufficient to meet the requirements of Section 4.03
of the Project Agreement;
(ii) to require completion of the construction works
for the development of the land so made available
in accordance with the Plan d'Amenagement within
a period not to exceed 42 months after the date
said land has been made available to the Investor
or developer; and
(iii) to have such arrangements under such contract
or such other instruments rescinded and the control
of the land so made available returned to SAPCO or


﻿- 8 -
to the Borrower, as appropriate, in the event such
Investor or developer has failed to construct,
within the said period, the said development, all
referred to in paragraph (ii) of this Section, or
failed to perform any of its obligations provided
in the Cahiers des Charges, which shall be incor-
porated in such written contract or other appro-
priate legal means as if it were originally and
fully set forth therein.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAPCO shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, SAPCO shall
maintain a system of separate commercial accounts covering the
Sali infrastructure constructed under the Project (excluding water
supply and sewerage infrastructure).
(c) SOFISEDIT shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part F (ii) of the Project and of each Hotel
Construction Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SAPCO shall: (i) have its accounts (including
but without limitation the separate commercial accounts referred
to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Project Agreement) and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the e nd of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts (including but without limitation the
separate commercial accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of
Section 4.01 of this Project Agreement) and financial statements


﻿- 9 -
of SAPCO and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) SAPCO shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank, by June 30, 1980, a statement of the financial policies of
SAPCO satisfactory to the Bank, including the establishment of
selling and leasing prices for commercial and recreational land
and improvements, and tariffs and other charges, all to be cal-
culated at levels which will enable SAPCO to meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SAPCO shall
take promptly as needed all such action (including without
limitation adjustments of its selling and leasing prices for
commercial and recreational land and improvements and tariffs
or other charges) as shall be required to provide in any fiscal
year an annual return on the average of the current net value of
its fixed assets in service at the beginning and end of such
fiscal year at a rate of not less than eight per cent (8%),
commencing with the fiscal year starting January 1, 1988.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual return specified in paragaph (b) of
this Section shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year, by using as the denominator one-half
of the sum of the current net values of the fixed
assets of SAPCO in service at the beginning and at
the end of each such year, and as numerator the net
operating income of SAPCO for the same year;
(ii) the term "current net value of the fixed assets
of SAPCO in service" means the gross value of
SAPCO's fixed assets in service less the amount of
accumulated depreciation both as valued from time
to time in accordance with consistently applied
appropriate methods of valuation or revaluation
acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii) the term "net operating income" means gross reve-
nues from all sources less all expenditures,
including expenses of administration, adequate
maintenance and taxes or any payment in lieu of
taxes and adequate provision for depreciation but
excluding interest and other charges on debt.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
SAPCO shall not: (i) declare any dividend or make any other
distribution with respect to its share capital unless after the
payment of such dividend or other distribution, SAPCO's current
assets will exceed its current liabilities by at least 1.5 times
its current liabilities, including debt service requirements for
the next following fiscal year; and (ii) incur any debt, other
than for money borrowed to finance the Project, unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or
for a twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence, which-
ever amount is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times
the maximum debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal
year on old debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purpose of this Section of this Agreement:
(i) the term "debt" means all indebtedness of SAPCO,
including debt for the service of which SAPCO
is responsible, maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt; provided, however, that in the case of
guarantee of debt, debt shall be deemed to be
incurred on the day the agreement guaranteeing such
debt has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt;
(iv) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of
SAPCO's selling and leasing prices and tariffs or
other charges, in effect at the time of the incur-
rence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating
and administrative expenses and provisions for
taxes, if any, but before provision covering


﻿- 11 -
depreciation and interest and other charges on
debt;
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the cur-
rency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valua-
tion, obtainable for the purpose of servicing such
debt or, if such other currency is not so obtain-
able, at the rate of exchange that will be reason-
ably determined by the Bank;
(vi) the term "current assets" includes cash, accounts
receivable due within twelve months, inventories
convertible to salable goods within twelve months,
prepaid expenses properly chargeable to operating
expenses with the next twelve months, and all
other assets which could, in the ordinary course of
business, be converted within twelve months into
cash; and
(vii)   the term "current liabilities" includes accounts
payabl, within twelve months, customer advances,
taxes, bonuses and all other liabilities (including
long-term debt) which will be due and payable,
or could be called for payment, within twelve
months.
Section 4.05. For the purpose of computing the debt/equity
ratio of three to one specified in Section 4.06 of the Loan
Agreement No. 1332 SE between the Bank and SOFISEDIT, dated
October 14, 1976, "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries" referred to in paragraph (d) of said Section 4.06
shall not include the amount of debt incurred by SOFISEDIT on
behalf of SAPCO in the carrying out of Part F (ii) of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the amendments to the Loan Agreement


﻿- 12 -
and the First Loan Agreement, dated          t      , 1980, become
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Bank, of SAPCO and of SOFISEDIT thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates: (i) the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or (ii) a date 24 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify SAPCO and SOFISEDIT of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
For SAPCO:
Societe d'Amenagement de la
Petite C8te
112, Rue Blanchot
Daka r
Senegal
Cable address:
AMEN
Dakar
For SOFISEDIT:
Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour
le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme
70, rue du Docteur Theze
B. P. 2003
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:
BANADE SEG
Dakar
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SAPCO or SOFISEDIT may be taken or
executed by their respective Directeur General and President
Directeur General or such other person or persons as such
Directeur General and President Directeur General shall.
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SAPCO and SOFISEDIT shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
SAPCO and SOFISEDIT, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by SAPCO and
SOFISEDIT pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          e1c L -Uj  Regional  Vice  President
Western Africa
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT DE LA PETITE COTE
By
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE FINANCIERE SENEGALAISE POUR LE
DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INDUSTRIE ET DU
TOURISME
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE
Policies and Procedures
for Part F of the Project
I.   Management
For the purpose of carrying out Part F (ii) of the Project:
1.   SOFISEDIT shall manage on behalf of SAPCO the portion of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the First Loan relent to SAPCO by
the Borrower under the SAPCO Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as re-
entered pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement, as
amended, required for the carrying out of Part F (ii) of the
Project and allocated to Category (3) of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, as amended,
SOFISEDIT managing said portion on terms and conditions as set
forth in the Project Agreement including this Schedule;
2.   SOFISEDIT shall: (a) be responsible for Sub-loan collec-
tion, but the Investors' repayment obligations for the Sub-loans
shall be toward SAPCO; and (b) ensure that Sub-loan repayments are
made upon maturity and immediately thereafter forward such repay-
ments to SAPCO;
3.   SAPCO shall bear the full risk of default on all Sub-
loans;
4.   SOFISEDIT shall not pay any commitment charge to SAPCO
other than the commitment charge paid by the Investors on the
principal amount of their Sub-loans not withdrawn; and
5.   SAPCO shall remunerate SOFISEDIT for its management
services with a management fee of 1.50% on amounts of Sub-loans
disbursed and outstanding from time to time.
II. Appraisal of Hotel Construction Projects
With respect to each request for financing a Hotel Construc-
tion Project:
(a) SAPCO shall make a technical evaliation, including:
(i) a judgment on the design of the proposed con-
struction;


﻿- 16 -
(ii) a verification that the project complies with
terms and conditions of the Cahiers des Charges;
(iii) a review of the market analysis and marketing
arrangements;
(iv) an assessment of the assumptions used in fore-
casting operations; and
(v) a preliminary appraisal of the Project's finan-
cial viability.
(b) Following the above technical evaluation, SAPCO shall
forward its recommendations to SOFISEDIT for making
a Sub-loan, including its proposals for an equity con-
tribution in the Project.
(c) Upon receipt of SAPCO's recommendations, SOFISEDIT
shall conduct a thorough financial appraisal of the
Project, followed by a review and approval of the
proposed Sub-loan by SOFISEDIT's Board of Directors.
(d) SOFISEDIT shall then present the Sub-loan to the Bank
for approval, on behalf of SAPCO, including SAPCO's
approval of the proposed Sub-loan and decision as to its
equity contribution and in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement.
III. Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
SOFISEDIT shall make the Sub-loans on behalf of SAPCO accor-
ding, inter alia, to the following terms and conditions:
(a) A Sub-loan shall not represent: (i) more than 20%
of the estimated total investment cost of a Hotel
Construction Project with a hotel capacity of one
hundred twenty-five rooms or less, the Investor's
own contribution and SAPCO's contribution as equity
representing not less than 30% of said estimated cost;
or (ii) more than 15%, or CFAFl80,000,000, whichever is
the lower, of the estimated total investment cost of a
Hotel Construction Project with a hotel capacity of more
than one hundred twenty-five rooms, the Investor's own
contribution and SAPCO's contribution as equity repre-
senting not less than 35% of said estimated cost; it


﻿- 17 -
being understood that for any Hotel Construction Pro-
ject, SAPCO (i) shall not contribute more than 10% of
the estimated total investment cost as equity, and (ii)
shall be granted appropriate security on the principal
amount of, interest and charges on, any Sub-loan.
(b) A Sub-loan shall: (i) carry an interest rate of not less
than 11.25% per annum on the principal amount out-
standing; and (ii) have a maximum term of fifteen years,
including an appropriate period of grace estimated not
to exceed three years. No substantial change in said
term of repayment shall be made without the prior
approval of the Bank.
(c) No Sub-loan shall be made unless the Investor has
presented an appropriate financing plan of the estimated
total investment cost of the Hotel Construction Project.
(d) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Loan Agreement, when presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank
for approval, SOFISEDIT on behalf of SAPCO shall furnish
to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investor
and an appraisal of the Hotel Construction Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the
First Loan, (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of
the Sub-loan, and (iii) such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(e) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (d) above shall be presented to the Bank on or
before September 30, 1983.
(f) SOFISEDIT undertakes that, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby
SOFISEDIT shall obtain, by written contract with the
Investor or by other appropriate legal means, rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Bank, SAPCO and SOFISEDIT, including the right of
SOFISEDIT or SAPCO to: (i) require the Investor to carry


﻿- 18 -
out and operate the Hotel Construction Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records; (ii) require that: (A)
contracts for the purchase of goods and services
and for civil works to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and of the First Loan shall be procured at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability of civil works and goods and, in the
case of services, the quality and competence of those
rendering them; and (B) such goods, services and civil
works shall be used exclusively for the carrying out of
the Hotel Construction Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank and SAPCO if
the Bank or SAPCO shall so request, the goods, sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Hotel
Construction Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (A)
the Investor shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (B) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and of the First Loan to the place
of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investor
to replace o'r repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Bank, SOFISEDIT or SAPCO shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investor; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investor to the use of the proceeds of the Loan or
of the First Loan upon failure by such Investor to
perform any of its obligations under its contract with
SOFISEDIT.
(g)  SOFISEDIT shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Hotel Construction Project in such manner as to:
(i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank,
SOFISEDIT and SAPCO; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of
the Project.


﻿- 19 -
IV. Supervision of Hotel Construction Projects
SOFISEDIT and SAPCO shall fully cooperate to closely monitor
the progress of construction and Sub-loan repayments. If an
Investor fails to make Sub-loan repayments, SOFISEDIT shall, on
behalf of SAPCO, exercise means of collection at its disposal in
accordance with its standard procedures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /2 L7   day of       , 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


