Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11325
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
NOVEMBER 16, 1992
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Guarani (G)
Average Exchange Rates (per US dollars)
1975                US$1             -         G$ 126
1976                US$1             -         G$ 126
1977                US$1             -         G$ 126
1978                US$1             -         G$ 126
1979                US$1             -         G$ 126
1980                US$1             -         G$ 126
1981                US$1             -         G$ 126
1982                US$1             -         G$ 136
1983                US$1             -         G$ 146
1984                US$1             -         G$ 244
1985                US$1             -         G$ 441
1986                US$1             -         G$ 517
1987                US$1             -         G$ 668
1988                US$1             -         G$ 840
1989                US$1             -         G$1120
1990                US$1             -         G$1230
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANDE               -     Power Company
ANTELCO            -     Telecommunication Company
BCP               -      Central Bank of Paraguay
BNF                -     National Development Bank
CONAPRI           -     National Preinvestment Council
CORPOSANA         -      Sanitation Works Corporation
DIPROFI            -     Financial Programming Division, Ministry of Finance
FOFIN-CUENCA      -      Fondo Financiero de la Cuenca del Plata (FONPLATA)
FP                -      Preinvestment Fund
INC               -     Cement Company
IDB               -      Interamerican Development Bank
MAC                -    Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MDN                -    Ministry of Defense
MH                 -    Ministry of Finance
MIC                -    Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MOPC               -     Ministry of Public Works and Communications
ONP                -     National Project Office
UNDP               -     United Nations Development Program
STP               -     Technical Planning Secretariat
SENASA            -     National Health and Environmental Service,
Ministry of Health
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office ot Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 16, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Paraguay
Second Preinvestment Studies Prolect (Loan 1780-PA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Paraguay - Second Preinvestment Studies Project (Loan 1780-
PA)" prepared by the Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development Division,
Department IV of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II
was prepared by LA4TF based on reports submitted by the Government of Paraguay
on the progress and difficulties encountered by the Loan.  No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    . . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . .
PART I.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.     Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.     Background  .1...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
C.     Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
D.     Identification, Preparation and Appraisal . . . . . . . . .   5
E.     Project Issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
F.     Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
G.     Disbursement and Audits ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   9
H.     Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
I.    Bank Performance  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   9
J.     Borrower Performance  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    10
K.    Consultants ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
L.     Lessons to be Learned ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    11
Tables
1.    Project Estimated Cost and Financing           . . . . . . . . .         4
2.    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements    . . . . .               8
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . .    13
PAR III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    15
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits . . . . . . .    15
Table 2.  Project Time Table  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Table 3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Disbursements ....  .         .  .  .  .  .    ......   .    16
Table 4.  Project Estimated Cost  ...  .           .  .    ..... .    16
Table 5.  Project Estimated Financing . . . . . . . . . .    17
Table 6.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds:
Original and Actual . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Table 7.  Project Results:
A.  Distribution of Subloans by Sectors . . . .    18
B.  Distribution of Subloans by Activity  . . .    18
C.  Estimated Sector Studies at Appraisal . . .    18
Table 8.  Status of Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
Table 9. Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
B.  Missions  ....  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    20
Table 10: First Preinvestment Studies  - Related
Bank Loans  ....  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    21
Table 11: Key Project Data    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22



. i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
PREFACE
1.        This  is  the  Project  Completion  Report  (PCR)  for  the  Second
Preinvestment Studies Project which was financed by the proceeds of the Bank loan
1780-PA.
2.        The Loan for US$5.0 million was approved on December 13, 1978, signed
on December 19, 1979, and became effective on September 19, 1980. Implementation
of the loan lagged with respect to the original schedule, because of delays in
contracting consultants and in the preparation of studies as well as in obtaining
the Ministry of Finance's approval of sub-loan contracts. It was also affected
adversely by delays in the processing of withdrawal applications. As a result,
the Bank canceled an undisbursed balance of US$3.2 million or 64 percent of the
loan; the last disbursement took place on August 12, 1987.
3.        The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared
by the Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development Division, Department IV of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (LA4TF) and is based, inter
ali", on the President's Report (no Staff Appraisal Report was prepared for this
operation); the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; final project analysis prepared by the
Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.
4.        The Government of Paraguay submitted reports on the progress and
difficulties encountered by the Loan.  A final report was submitted, through
UNDP, to the Bank on April 4, 1988, and it is on file in the Bank. Part II of
the PCR is a summary of these reports, and it was prepared by LA4TF.



I



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The basic objectives of the loan were to help the country to: (a)
generate well-prepared public investment projects through the Preinvestment Fund
(FP) and the National Projects Office (ONP); (b) support preinvestment studies
and sector analyses; (c) consolidate the preinvestment mechanism established
under the first Preinvestment Studies Project (IDA Credit 587-PA approved in
1975) through institution building and technical assistance in project
preparation to ONP, the Ministries of Agriculture and Public Works and
Communications, and the National Development Bank (BNF); and (d) develop a multi-
year financial planning and programming mechanism, with technical assistance
support, in the Ministry of Finance to budget the financial implications of
investments generated by preinvestment studies.
2.        The total project cost was estimated at US$13 million.  Financing for
subloans amounted to US$12 million, of which the Bank loan covered US$5 million.
The remainder of the loanable funds was provided by FOPIN-CUENCA', US$3 million,
and by the Central Bank of Paraguay, US$4 million.   The project's technical
assistance component (US$1 million) was financed by a UNDP grant with the Bank
acting as executing agency.
Imilementation ExDerience
3.        The Bank loan had intended to alter the decision-making process for
project preparation and execution. In a country with a then highly centralized
chain of command, this was not achieved. The agreements reached at negotiations
aimed at decentralizing decisions faced eventually serious resistance at the
political level.   As a consequence,  administrative entanglements and late
presentation of withdrawal applications ensued. Several covenants were either
X    FOPIN-CUENCA is a regional development institution.   It is usually
known as FONPLATA.   The member countries are: Argentina, Brazil,
Paraguay, Bolivia and Uruguay. Its largest shareholders are Brazil
and Argentina.    It was  established  in 1974 and initiated  its
activities in 1976.  FOPIN-CUENCA's purpose is to finance, through
loans, investment projects and preinvestment studies in its member
countries. It can borrow funds from international lending agencies
or from capital markets.   Its organization includes a Board of
Governors, a Board of Executive Directors, and a Permanent Secretariat
with a limited number of professionals.



- iv -
ignored or only partially complied with.  As explained below, the project's
actual results were limited, both in terms of institutional development and of
actual lending for preinvestment studies.
Results
4.        The main objective of generating a strong pipeline of quality projects
through a four-year lending program of FP/ONP to public sector institutions was
not accomplished. Although the level of information makes it difficult to pass
judgement on the impact of those preinvestment studies completed, two factors
support a conclusion of generally low-impact: (i) few preinvestment projects
studied were financed, and (ii) progress in strengthening the preinvestment
mechanism and carrying out other institutional changes were insufficient to
change the existing practices for project preparation and selection.
5.        There were some accomplishments in the area of investment development.
First, FP/ONP gained further experience and strengthened its professional base
to assist public entities in preparing preinvestment studies.   Second, some
public entities developed a capability to prepare preinvestment studies with the
support of technical advisors (e.g., the Ministry of Agriculture). Third, FP
made 10 subloans to finance preinvestment, prefeasibility and engineering studies
totalling US$5.2 million.   Some of these studies led to investment projects
financed by IDB and agencies of the governments of Argentina and Brazil.
6.        Institutional changes did not materialize as envisaged in the project
documentation. The project supported several significant institutional actions:
(a) the creation of a high level Council (CONAPRI) to oversee preinvestment
policies and programs; (b) the restructuring of FP to make it work more
effectively through the replacement of the Executive Secretary of Technical
Planning Secretariat (STP) with the Director of ONP; (c) the consolidation of FP
and ONP in an autonomous institution by June 30, 1981; (d) the creation of a unit
(DIPROFI) in the Ministry of Finance to coordinate public investment programming
and budgeting with preinvestment studies prepared with FP's support; and (e) the
appointment of preinvestment advisors in each agency expected to be among the
main borrowers (Ministries of Public Works and Communications, Ministry of
Agriculture, and BNF), and of a general-purpose project coordinator at ONP for
four years with the purpose of assisting on project methodology and
administrative matters, coordinate the project's technical assistance components,
and help agencies in processing the studies financed by FP.   The technical
assistance arrangements represented a significant departure from those undertaken
under Credit 587-PA, in which all the advisors worked for ONP. Most of these
expected institution-building measures were not implemented. First, CONAPRI was
created but it never met. Second, the coordination between DIPROFI, STP, and the
Budget Directorate of the Ministry of Finance did not take place; an expert was
assigned to DIPROFI in the Ministry of Finance but his duties were not clearly
linked to preinvestment activities nor with the coordination of investment
programming and budgeting. Third, the consolidation of ONP and FP also was not
implemented. Fourth, the general purpose coordinator was not appointed because
of differences between ONP and the Bank about the expert's role in coordinating
preinvestment activities.



- v -
7.        On the positive side of institution-building, preinvestment advisors
were appointed to several public sector agencies as agreed with the Bank. In
some cases, the advisors successfully developed preinvestment studies and helped
to consolidate the technical expertise of the institution in project preparation
(e.g. Ministry of Agriculture). However, this progress was minor compared to
what was expected in the case of institution building.
Proiect Disbursements
8.        Disbursements of Bank funds reached only US$1.8 million or 36 percent
of the loan. Of this, US$1.1 million (22 percent) financed preinvestment and
prefeasibility studies and US$670,000 (14 percent) technical assistance under a
new loan category created at the request of the Borrower.  The remainder (64
percent, (US$3.2 million) was canceled.  The low disbursement performance is
closely correlated to low political commitment.
Technical Assistance
9.        Technical assistance needs originally were covered by UNDP funding for
US$1 million. However, in the implementation period as UNDP ran out of funds,
US$670,000 of preinvestment funds from the Bank loan were reallocated to cover
additional technical assistance expenditures. About US$170,000 were allocated
to ONP to hire consultants to advise on technical, administrative and financial
matters, including project evaluation techniques. The remainder was used to pay
consultants in the Ministries of Agriculture, Public Works and Finance.
Proilect Risks
10.       The project design underestimated the depth of the institutional risks
involved in changing existing investment practices. Project risks materialized
in the following areas: lack of political support, and inadequate assessment of
the motivation/benefits to borrowing agencies and of the availability of cheaper
non-reimbursable sources of financing for preinvestment studies. At appraisal,
the main risk was correctly assessed to be the degree of support that Government
agencies would provide to the project and its objectives. However, while during
negotiations the Government committed to establish a high-level Council (CONAPRI)
and a financial programming unit (DIPROFI) in the Ministry of Finance, such
commitment did not last when circumstances changed.
11.       Special  project  risks  were  identified  as  being  those  normally
associated with recruiting first-rate experts in the preinvestment field. To
minimize this risk, the Bank acted as the executing agency for UNDP. As the
implementation experience proved, the special risks were also more complex than
those originally envisaged. For example, a general coordinator was not hired
because of differences between the Bank and ONP about the expert's role in pre-
investment activities. Financing the technical assistance also proved to be a
problem and, as noted earlier, US$670,000 of the Bank's project funding had to
be reallocated to cover technical assistance costs.



* vi -
SustainabkiliL
12.       The limited benefits of the project were not sustained.  The principal
impact of the reforms supported by the project should have been on making the
investment decisions more transparent. The main vehicle for transparency was
institutional change and the building of the technical capacity of Government
agencies. As noted earlier, the project results were rather limited both in
institution building and in the generation of a pipeline of projects.
Lessons to be Learned
13.       The project under review illustrates the difficulties of making rather
complex institutional changes in long-established Government practices without
an in-depth and lasting Government commitment.
14.       A second lesson concerns the need to monitor commitment constantly and
to cancel projects when conditions have substantially changed and commitment has
become uncertain.   This project should have been canceled earlier.   It was
appraised in FY1979 and began to be slowly disbursed in FY84, or five years
later.
15.       A third lesson to be drawn concerns the difficulties encountered in
the attempt to shift the project composition of public investment from those
Ministries or agencies better equipped for preparing projects in favor of those
with lesser capabilities. Despite the project's avowed purpose of favoring to
some extent the latter type of agencies, the 10 studies financed by FP/ONP during
1980-86 had a high component of infrastructure projects.
16.       A fourth lesson is that institutional changes should be well along
their implementation stages before  Board Presentation.   Bank leverage on
institutional changes tends to be less forceful during implementation.
Bank Group Assistance to Paraeuav
17.       Bank loans to Paraguay as of December 31, 1991 totalled (net of
cancellations) US$421 million, of which outstanding and disbursed loans (net of
repayments) amounted to US$173 million. The borrower's obligation was US$244
million owing to currency fluctuations in the currency basket.   Lending is
concentrated in agriculture and rural development (about 50 percent) and
transportation (27 percent).
18.       Undisbursed funds in the existing pipeline totaled US$20 million at
end-1991. Two rural development loans (Caazapa and Eje Norte) account for almost
the entire undisbursed amount. The decline on undisbursed funds is explained by
the fact that the Bank did not approve new loans to Paraguay during 1985-91.
This lending hiatus ended with the approval of a Land Use Rehabilitation Project
on March 17, 1992. Major differences between the Government and the Bank had
arisen about the conduct of economic policies in the mid-1980s, particularly on
the exchange rate policy.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
1.01      Project Name:              Second Preinvestment Studies Project
Loan Number:              1780-PA
RVP Unit:                 LA4TF
Country:                  Paraguay
Sector:                   Preinvestment
B.   Background
1.02      Paraguay's economic activities depend heavily on agriculture.   It
employs 40 percent of the labor force and it is also a significant source of
foreign  exchange  earnings.      External  demand  for  agricultural  products
traditionally has been an important factor in the country's prosperity. During
the 1970s, the construction of the large Itaipu hydroelectrical plant (12,600 MW)
contributed to accelerate growth dramatically.  Real GDP growth averaged 8.9
percent a year during 1970-81. Agriculture grew also rapidly at 6.9 percent a
year helped by the expansion both of the agricultural frontier and of the road
network that took place in the 1960s.
1.03      Itaipu works were a transitory growth factor which also favored the
expansion of private investment in construction, a sector that grew at 21 percent
a year in the 1970s. Private investment at 1982 prices increased from less than
10 percent of GDP in the 1960s to almost 17 percent on average during the 1970s
and over 20 percent during 1979-81.
1.04      Public investment, which had expanded in the late 1960s to 5.3 percent
of GDP, gained momentum reaching 9 percent of GDP in 1976-77. Afterwards, it
began a declining trend despite the strong financial position of public finances
in the late 1970s. At this time, the Government realized that maintaining high
GDP growth rates and the private investment boom required an increase of public
investments in infrastructure as well as in education, health and rural
development.  The scarcity of well-prepared projects, however, constituted a
serious bottleneck to an increase in public investments.
1.05      The level and pattern of public investment in the 1980s was perceived
as highly dependent on the technical and administrative capacity of the public
sector to prepare projects. This created the need for upgrading the technical
capacity for project identification and preparation, expanding the number of
public agencies capable of preparing good projects, and streamlining the
administrative and decision-making investment processes.



-2-
1.06      To achieve these objectives, substantial external technical assistance
and institution building were essential. The Bank decided to support this effort
through the Second Pre-investment Studies Project, which provided financing for
prefeasibility, pre-investment and engineering studies utilizing the pre-
investment mechanism (FP/ONP) created under the Pre-investment Studies Project
(IDA Credit No. 587-PA) approved in 1975.
1.07      The justification for the Second Pre-investment Studies Loan was
provided by the need to: (a) overcome institutional constraints, in particular
in planning, economic management, and project preparation and execution; (b)
spread the benefits of growth more broadly and, more particularly, to attack the
problems of rural poverty; (c) support projects that directly or indirectly make
large contributions to production and employment; and (d) increase public
investments that support the productive sectors and/or expand perceptibly into
the social sectors.
1.08      Unfortunately, economic conditions in Paraguay changed dramatically
after 1981 when the large inflow of foreign exchange from the construction of
Itaipu disappeared. GDP declined in 1982-83 and grew little (0.8 percent a year)
during 1981-86 before recovering during 1987-90. Exports continued to expand
fairly rapidly in the 1980s, though not as fast as in the 1970s, but domestic
demand stagnated, reflecting the slowdown in construction and services and the
loss of income from Itaipu. Construction dropped 2.6 percent a year during
1981-86.
1.09      Public finances deteriorated as revenues dropped from an average 8.1
percent of GDP during 1980-82 to an average 6.8 percent during 1983-88.  The
Government intervened in the economy by increasing public expenditures and
entered or expanded its presence in activities, such as steel and cement, which,
when completed by 1988, turned out to be greatly overdimensioned. The Government
resorted to financing expenditures with subsidies received on its purchases of
foreign exchange. The subsidies came both from exporters, who had to sell to the
Central Bank a fraction of their export proceeds at an exchange rate well below
the market rate (aforos) and from the Central Bank which sold foreign exchange
to the public sector at even lower prices.   Increased borrowings and reserve
losses followed but proved unsustainable over a long period of time.
1.10      The  authorities  who  came  to  power  in  1989  made  substantial
improvements in policy management and public finances. The Government deficit
was reduced, public enterprise finances were tightened, the multiple exchange
rates were unified in a single rate, interest rates were liberalized, and a tax
reform begun. In brief, Paraguay made substantial progress in improving policy
management and towards regaining macroeconomic stability beginning in 1989.
1.11      Summing up, the implementation of the project took place in a period
in which Paraguay's large inflow of foreign financing from the construction of
Itaipu essentially  disappeared and public  finances  deteriorated.    Public
investment dropped from an average 6.4 percent of GDP during 1977-81 to an
average of 5.4 percent of GDP during 1982-86.



- 3-
C.   Proiect Objectives and Description
1.12      Proiect Objectives.  The primary objectives of the project were to
help: (a) generate a pipeline of well-prepared public investment projects; (b)
support institutional-building and sector analysis efforts; (c) consolidate the
pre-investment mechanism established under the first Credit project; and (d)
establish a multi-year financial planning and programming mechanism in the
Ministry of Finance to link more closely the country's budgetary process and the
financing of investments generated through the pre-investment process.   The
project was also expected to improve the decision-making process in the area of
public investment and to enhance resource allocation.
1.13      Description.  The project had four main components: (a) Pre-investment
Studies; (b) Pre-Feasibility Studies; (c) Institutional Development; and (d)
Financial Programming Unit.
(a)  Pre-investment Studies: to meet the first objective--to generate well-
prepared public investment projects--the project included a four-year
lending program through the Pre-investment Fund (FP) and the National
Project Office (ONP), to public sector institutions to finance the
costs of hiring consultants to prepare and review specific pre-
investment studies, mainly in transportation, agriculture, and the
social sectors. During appraisal, a number of specific studies were
identified as suitable for further consideration by FP/ONP and the
Bank. In agriculture, a number of rural development project studies
were anticipated, stemming from a UNDP/Bank-supported study of rural
areas suitable for development. In transportation, FP's pipeline of
suitable studies included a number of detailed road engineering
studies based on feasibility surveys, which, in some cases, were
linked to agricultural projects.   In industry,  the studies were
expected to cover agro-industries and energy-intensive projects linked
to hydroelectric projects (Annex IV, Part II of the President's Report
(P-2612-PA) has a more in-depth discussion of FP/ONP potential
pipeline of studies).
(b)  Pre-Feasibility Studies:  to meet the second objective--to support
institution-building and sector analysis efforts- -the project included
a similar program for undertaking sector and other pre-feasibility
studies, through the ONP/FP mechanism, as well as studies focusing on
institutional improvements needed to strengthen public sector
agencies, to provide basic information on a number of sectors in order
to facilitate project identification and preparation, and to enhance
the government's planning and project execution capabilities.
Particular importance was attached to studies on institutions linked
to the agricultural sector.
(c)  Institutional DeveloRment: to meet the third objective--to consolidate
the pre-investment mechanism--the project sought to strengthen the
government's capacity to plan, organize, and review specific studies
through: (i) technical assistance to support the work of the
government agencies in the preparation of the studies; and (ii) the



- 4 -
introduction of new measures aimed at improving the pre-investment
mechanism.  The project required the assignment of key advisors to
public sector agencies likely to be the main borrowers from FP- -rather
than exclusively within ONP as had been the case under the first IDA
operation. It also required a general-purpose project coordinator at
ONP, for four years, to provide assistance on methodological questions
and administrative  matters,  coordinate  the  technical  assistance
components and help the other agencies in processing the studies
financed by FP. The project identified the need for advisors (for two
years), one each in transport, agriculture and industrial project
promotion/evaluation to be assigned to the Ministry of Public Works
and Communications, Ministry of Agriculture and the National
Development Bank.
(d)  Financial Programming Unit: to meet a fourth objective--to strengthen
medium-term financing programming- -a Financial Programming Unit in the
Ministry of Finance was to be established.   This unit would have
linked the budgetary process and the project preparation mechanism.
The project would finance an advisor, for two years, in organization
and financial programming.
1.14      Proiect Co.   The total project cost was estimated at US$13.0
million, of which US$8.0 million (61.5X) was in foreign exchange. Of this total,
US$10.0 million equivalent were for subloans for pre-investment studies, US$2.0
million for subloans for pre-feasibility studies, and US$1.0 million for
technical assistance. Foreign costs would be financed by FOFIN-CUENCA (US$3.0
million and the Bank's US$5.0 million. The Bank loan would finance 38 percent
of the total costs and 62.5 percent of the foreign costs.   The technical
assistance component was expected to be financed by a UNDP grant for US$1.0
million, with the Bank acting as executing agency.   The signing of relevant
documentation concerning co-financing from UNDP and the effectiveness of the
FOFIN-CUENCA Loan Agreement were conditions of effectiveness for the Bank loan.
Table 1: PROJECT ESTIMATED COST AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
ITEHS          Central       Bank        FOFIN-       UNDP      Total
Bank (BCP)               CUENCA
Subloans for pre-
inveatment studies
3.0         4.0         3.0          -         10.0
Subloans for
prefeasibility studies
1.0         1.0          -           -         2.0
Technical asesitance
-           -           -          1.0         1.0
Total                  4.0         5.0         3.0         1.0        13.0
Percentage               31.0        38.0        23.0        8.0        100I0



- 5 -
1.15      Bank and FOFIN-CUENCA Terms.  The Bank loan was made at a 7.95 percent
interest rate, with a maturity of 17 years, including 4 years of grace. The loan
proceeds were to be transferred to FP as a capital contribution from the
Government. The FOFIN-CUENCA loan carried an interest rate of 6 percent, with
a maturity of 10 years, including 2 years of grace. UNDP's technical assistance
was provided as a grant.
D.   Identification. PreRaration and Appraisal
1.16      The project was identified by a Bank mission to Paraguay in February
1979 and it was prepared by ONP and UNDP with the support of consultants and Bank
missions.  Bank financing was expected to help in further strengthening pre-
investment activities and to increase the number of well-prepared, high priority
projects in the public sector.  In 1979, the economy was growing rapidly and
public investment was expected to expand in order to provide necessary support
to private activities.  The project, thus, was in step with the Government's
development strategy at the time and with the need to generate a pipeline of
public projects while, at the same time, supporting institution building in
Government ministries and agencies.
1.17      The  role and responsibilities  of  the  institutions  and agencies
involved with the project were well-defined. However, in actual implementation,
roles and responsibilities differed from those envisaged at appraisal.
Political, financial and institutional constraints interfered with the smooth
functioning of the project.
1.18      On-Lending Arrangements.  Project beneficiaries were expected to be
public sector agencies. (The Government tried unsuccessfully to finance private
sector pre-investment studies, opening a line of credit for US$200,000 in July
1982 to promote studies for private investments in industry, agro-industry and
tourism.   The private sector did not utilize these funds and the line was
eventually cancelled at end-1984).
1.19      The FP lending rate for subloans was fixed at 6 percent.  This rate
was below the 13 percent nominal lending rate charged to productive activities
in agriculture and industry under Bank-supported projects. It was also below the
expected rate of inflation (13 percent in 1978) and thus the real rate was
negative. The President's Report justified the low rate based on the following:
(a) it did not have an allocative role but a promotional one; (b) it was above
the weighted average cost of funds for subloans (less than 5 percent); and (c)
it would encourage the use of pre-investment resources while, at the same time,
it would generate financial resources for FP/ONP.  Of the 6 percent rate, FP
would capitalize 3 percentage points, 1 percentage point would be used to cover
administrative expenditures, and 2 percent would be used to supplement ONP's
salaries. Even at the low 6 percent rate, FP had a hard time finding borrowers
because of the competition from non-reimbursable funds. The negative impact on
the project's performance of the competition of other cheaper sources of funds
for pre-investment studies was not fully grasped.
1.20      Under these arrangements, FP would have had the following resources:
(a) the proceeds of the Bank and FOFIN-CUENCA loans; (b) recoveries of previous



-6-
subloans; (c) the earnings on subloans net of operating expenditures; (d)
Government funding under the project; and (e) future funding from the Government
or external sources.   The arrangement was expected to build up FP's working
capital to sustain a turnover of about US$4 million a year by the mid-1980s with
no further capital contribution. This objective was not accomplished as both
Bank and FOFIN-CUENCA loans were not fully disbursed.
1.21      FP's subloans were expected to finance up to 100 percent of the cost
of studies with a maximum of 7 years maturity and 2 years grace. Loans were
quoted in local currency; therefore, the Government assumed the exchange risk.
The evidence shows that lending proceeded along the established guidelines.
1.22      A Subsidiary Loan Agreement was to be concluded between the Government
and FP as a condition of loan effectiveness.   The Agreement defined the
relationship between both parties, particularly the transfer of funds.
1.23      FOFIN-CUENCA cofinanced the operation with a US$3 million loan at 6
percent, 10 years maturity and 2 years grace. These funds were transferred by
the Government to FP on a non-reimbursable basis.   FOFIN-CUENCA financial
arrangements required the following: (a) at least 60 percent of the funds should
be spent in member countries' currencies; (b) preference should be given,
whenever possible, to consultants from member countries; and (c) funds should be
spent on projects with regional implications, thereby excluding projects in
sectors such as urbanization and education.  The Bank supervised all studies
financed under the project  (both Bank and FOFIN-CUENCA).   As part of the
arrangement, the Bank would (i) inform FOFIN-CUENCA of its approval of
expenditures for studies financed by it and FOFIN-CUENCA would make payments
directly to the consultants; and (ii) maintain records of all payments made by
FOFIN-CUENCA. This arrangement worked well and was not a factor in delaying the
implementation of the project.
1.24      The project's technical assistance component was financed by a UNDP
grant for US$1 million, for which the Bank was the executing agency.  In the
course of project implementation, US$670,000 of Bank funds were reallocated from
pre-investment studies to a new technical assistance category at the request of
the Government of Paraguay.
1.25      Initially, the project was expected to close by December 1984.  This
date was extended to December 31, 1986.   Disbursements would take place in
combination with the proceeds of the FOFIN-CUENCA loan as follows: 70 percent of
each pre-investment study and 50 percent of each pre-feasibility study would be
covered by the Bank. The Government supported the loan request by submitting a
tentative list of 41 pre-investment studies to be developed with FP financing
using the project resources. The list had the following breakdown: agriculture
16, transport 18, education 2, public studies 3, and industry 2.
1.26      Procurement was to be made in accordance with Bank guidelines, which
were discussed during appraisal and agreed with ONP and the Government.



-7-
E.   Prolect Issues
1.27      During preparation, appraisal and negotiation of the project, several
issues were of concern:
(a) Interest Rate. The low on-lending rate was raised as an issue inside
the Bank but given the promotional role of FP activities, the approach
was accepted based on the argument that, once the demand for pre-
investment funds began to increase, FP would charge gradually a higher
interest rate on its loans. (The low on-lending rate did not overcome
the lack of interest of Government agencies in using the project
funds).
(b)  Monitoring of the Project.   To achieve effective monitoring,  the
Government agreed to furnish and exchange views with the Bank about
the yearly work program for FP/ONP, including their costs and the
financial arrangements, as well as about the actual implementation of
the program.
(c) Centralized Decision-Making. The Bank was concerned with excessive
centralization of decisions regarding each subloan and a tendency to
tailor the agreements to each individual operation. To overcome these
problems, a high level Council (CONAPRI) was established on November
1979 as a policy-making body but leaving day-to-day operations of FP
and the approval of individual subprojects to its management
committee.   Also, FP/ONP prepared standard forms of contracts for
subloan agreements satisfactory to the Bank, thereby avoiding Ma hoc
documents for each subloan, which had been the practice before.
(d) ONP Merger with FP. During appraisal, the Government indicated that
it would move to consolidate FP and ONP into a single autonomous
institution although actually no decision had been made at
negotiations.   Thus, the merger as of June 30, 1981 was a special
condition of the Bank loan.
(e) Financial Programming Unit. The role and location of this unit was
discussed during negotiations and an agreement reached to place it
under the Ministry of Finance linked to the Office of the
Undersecretary rather than in the Directorate of the Budget.
(f) Ceiling of Subloans. During negotiations, the issue was raised by the
Paraguayan negotiators, who requested a higher limit of US$200,000
instead of the proposed US$100,000 for subloans that had to be
submitted to the Bank for review. The request was approved "in view
of the expected distribution of the proposals." The cumulative limit
for the total of these proposals was also raised from US$1.0 million
to US$1.6 million (13 percent of the US$12 million project component
allocated for subloans).
(g)  Government Contribution.   This was also discussed and agreed: the
local contribution to the project would come from FP's accumulated



-8-
reserves rather than from the Government budget.  The latter would
have been tapped only if FP resources were insufficient. The Bank
suggested that a determination should be made every year, based on
FP's work program and financial projections.
F.   Proiect ImDlementation
1.28      The project was expected to be completed by December 1983 (Schedule
2 of the Loan Agreement). Actual disbursements, however, were very slow and much
below initial estimates (Table 2). By FY1984, or five years after appraisal,
actual disbursements amounted to only 10 percent of the loan. A reallocation of
US$670,000 to technical assistance, which was fully disbursed, contributed to
increase disbursements to US$1.8 million by FY88. Based on the lack of demand
over several years, the Bank canceled the undisbursed amount of the loan (US$3.2
million or 64 percent of the loan amount). The loan was technically closed on
December 31, 1986 but with actual reimbursements continuing until August 1987.
It was formally closed as of August 12, 1987 (telex of October 14, 1987 from
IA4CO).
Table 2: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ millions)
IFY"80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Eatimte          0.1    0.6    1.6    2.7    4.6    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Actual           -      -      -      -      0.5    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8
Source: siank taff.
1.29      Project  implementation was well  below  expectations  for  several
reasons.  First, fulfilling effectiveness conditions took six months longer than
estimated.  Second, the reluctance of the Ministry of Finance to use foreign debt
to finance pre-investment studies, which delayed signing of contracts. Third,
lack of demand owing to the reluctance of Government agencies to use reimbursable
funds and submit to scrutiny and procedures when other sources of pre-investment
funds provided better terms and less transparency. Fourth, slow administrative
and cumbersome procedures. Fifth, Bank staff did not fully assess the lack of
political consensus and support for this project, which aimed at increasing the
transparency of the evaluation and selection of public sector projects and at
supporting the decentralization of investment decisions in a highly-centralized
political and economic decision-making Government apparatus. Sixth, differences
during the mid-1980s between the Government and the Bank about macroeconomic
policies, in particular the exchange rate policy, which became a very sensitive
issue. Disbursements of Bank projects were taking place at an official exchange
rate well below the market rate until the Bank suspended disbursements in mid-
1986. Seventh, coordination problems between ONP/FP and other agencies and the
low status of ONP in the public administration.



-9-
G.   Disbursement and Audits
1.30      The poor administrative capability within the Government caused delays
in the presentation of withdrawal applications. Some were returned for technical
reasons,  further  delaying  the  disbursements.    But  the  Bank handling  of
reimbursement application also was not fully trouble-free. There were delays in
the processing of withdrawal applications by the Bank.
1.31      Audit requirements were properly fulfilled even though there was some
misunderstanding between the Government and the Bank in this connection. This
conclusion is supported by the documentation in the files.
H.   Proiect Results
1.32      The main accomplishments of the Second Pre-investment Studies Project
were:
(a)  a total of about US$5.2 million were granted by FP in 10 subloans for
pre-investment studies to develop projects, some of which became
investment projects. They were financed by other lenders, such as IDB
and agencies  of the governments  of Argentina  and Brazil.   The
reallocation of project funds to a technical assistance component was
used to complete studies initiated under Credit 587-PA (Caazapa and
Eje Norte), and for hiring a consultant in the preparation of a
livestock loan for Bank financing.
(b)  the experience obtained by ONP/FP and the improved capability to
assist Government agencies in preparing pre-investment, prefeasibility
and engineering studies as well as the development of some project
preparation capability in the Ministry of Agriculture.   Although
significantly short of the appraisal targets, there was a positive
developmental impact.
1.33      Nevertheless, the development of a pipeline of well-prepared projects
and the consolidation of the pre-investment functions as well as the coordination
of medium-term public investment programming with the pre-investment function did
not advance much. Furthermore, the financial planning and budget programming
mechanism supported by the project did not perform adequately and did not fulfill
its  functions  with  regard  to  pre-investment  activities.    Institutional
development was also limited as noted above and administrative procedures for
processing subloans did not function smoothly. Approval procedures were long and
cumbersome, particularly to obtain the guarantee for the subloans from the
Ministry of Finance.
I.   Bank Performance
1.34      The project was designed to improve the preparation of pre-investment
studies and generate new public investment projects to be financed by the Bank
and  other  multilateral  agencies.    The  project  placed  some  emphasis  in
strengthening project preparation in the less capable agencies. It was conceived
at a time when the country's economy was expanding and the need for new



- 10 -
infrastructure and developmental projects in support of private activities was
foreseen.
1.35      Project preparation was carried out by ONP and UNDP.  Bank missions
provided support.   During the appraisal and negotiation stages,  the Bank
exercised flexibility in the dialogue and willingness to reach a mutually agreed
understanding. However, Bank staff did not properly evaluate the institutional
risks involved in reaching understandings, which aimed at increasing the
transparency and the decentralization of investment decisions in a highly
centralized administrative decision-making apparatus.
1.36      Bank assistance in the selection of consultants helped improve the
execution of the project, but it could not make it an effective operation. Since
the beginning of project implementation, the Bank played a major role in the
selection and recruitment of experts and in strengthening ONP's staff under the
UNDP  Grant.    Bank  recommendations  to  improve  project  performance  were
instrumental in assigning consultants to assist ONP in streamlining procedures
and in reviewing general project performance.
1.37      The project absorbed a total of 87 staff weeks, of which 46 were
allocated to supervision. The number of supervision missions appears to have
been adequate but coverage was less than adequate.   The staff in charge was
requested to cover too many tasks and did not receive all the support needed from
specialists. Loan officers carried a significant load in the supervision of this
loan. Supervision reports covered technical matters of the loan but rarely the
institutional aspects or the financial issues of ONP/FP. Although supervision
missions recognized the need for institutional development, detailed
institutional development queries were not made until 1984; too late to change
the course of events, as relations between the Government and the Bank
deteriorated over broader policy questions, such as the exchange rate policy.
1.38      Coordination between the Bank and UNDP was satisfactory despite the
latter's declining funds for Latin America during the implementation period. The
Bank had to reallocate US$670,000 of proceeds from the loan to cover technical
assistance after 1983, of which US$170,000 were used to finance advisors in
support of ONP during 1985-87. UNDP financed consultants and equipment purchases
for ONP during 1980-85 for US$276,775.
J.   Borrower Performance
1.39      Overall,  Government commitment to the objective of ensuring the
transparency and decentralization of pre-investment and investment decisions did
not last. Transparency was not a priority and the Government supported only a
limited and controlled role for ONP while the Bank sought a much broader role.
In this context, FP/ONP activities supporting pre-investment studies were
hampered by the Government not having met its counterpart obligations.   In
addition, there was lack of interest and unwillingness of some agencies to
utilize the pre-investment process of FP/ONP, in some cases because they had
access to cheaper funding to prepare the studies.



- 11 -
K. Consultanes
1.40      Consultants, both local and foreign, generally performed well.  They
were assigned in support of various Ministries and BNF. The quality of the work,
with some exceptions, was good but with a rather limited impact. Consultants
were instrumental in the preparation of pre-investment studies, particularly in
the Ministry of Agriculture. The consultants' budget was initially financed by
a grant from UNDP and later on by a reallocation of the loan proceeds to a new
category for technical assistance.
1.41      FP supported the development of local consulting services for the
preparation of pre-investment studies.  Local consultants worked on about 60
percent of the projects financed by FP.
L.   Lessons to be Learned
1.42      The following are the principal lessons learned from this operation:
(a)  Bank  projects  aiming  at  strengthening  the  public  sector's
institutional capacity for the preparation of pre-investment studies
should assess carefully the initial depth and likely perseverance of
the Government's commitment to the proposed institutional changes.
In Paraguay's case, the aim of reinforcing ONP/FP's role in project
preparation did not come to fruition because the Government did not
maintain its commitment to the project objectives.   This contrasts
with the accomplishments under the earlier Credit No. 587-PA in
generating new projects for Bank financing (see table 10, Part III).
This Credit financed 17 subloans, which led to the Bank lending for
6 projects 1780-PA. Some of the pre-investment studies resulted in
investment projects which were financed by other lenders (e.g.,
potable water, IDB; highways, Banco do Brazil; ports, Banco Central
de Argentina). The Bank loan provided, however, through the technical
assistance component, help to complete 2 rural development projects
(Caazapa, Loan 2087-PA; Eje Norte, Loan 2141-PA), whose pre-investment
studies were initially financed from the proceeds of Credit 587-PA,
and a livestock project. Upon completion of the studies, these two
projects were financed by the Bank in 1982.
(b)  the need to monitor constantly the Government's commitment and adapt
quickly to changes in political and financial circumstances.   This
loan was an obvious candidate for early cancellation.   As noted
earlier, public finances deteriorated after Loan 1780-PA was approved
and the Minister of Finance slowed down processing of subloans to
control tightly investment expenditures. Disbursements only began to
trickle down in 1984. In addition, the economy's fortunes worsened;
Government policies, particularly the exchange rate policy, led to a
deterioration of relations with the Bank and temporary suspension of
disbursements. Both circumstances, undoubtedly, influenced negatively
the performance of the pre-investment mechanism in generating projects



- 12 -
for Bank financing.   Bank lending to Paraguay stopped in 1984 and
resumed in March 1992.
(c) the development objective of Bank projects aiming at creating a
project preparation capacity in weak public entities, e.g., social
sectors, agriculture, by providing financing for pre-investment
studies, may prove elusive because their influence over subsequent
investments is limited. In addition, these agencies are usually in
a weak financial situation and thus prefer non-reimbursable financing
for project preparation.
(d) Bank projects of this type should not be presented to the Board before
institutional actions essential to the success of the project are well
advanced.    The  covenanted  merger  of  FP/ONP  is  an  example  of
unfulfilled conditions.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
PART II: BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE OF THE IMPLEMENTATION
AND DEVELOPMENT IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
2.01      The Government of Paraguay prepared reports' covering the activities
undertaken by ONP and the subloans financed by FP in the framework of Credit 587-
PA, Loan 1780-PA and PAR 2/792 as well as the accomplishments of the program
with respect to its initial objectives. The paragraphs below summarize the main
conclusions of these reports.
Experiences learned in carrying out the Rroiect
2.02      FP/ONP commented that Loan 1780-PA represented a continuation of
actions and policies initiated under Credit 587-PA. Activities began in 1979
when a request was made for a subloan to study the need for water services in 13
cities. The investment project was financed later on by the IDB. In total, 16
requests were presented, of which 10 were financed by FP.  At appraisal, 41
potential projects had been identified. Thus, actual results were lower than
expected.
2.03      In reviewing the institutional actions agreed under the project
ONP/FP's report makes the following comments:
(a) the Preinvestment Council (CONAPRI) was created in 1979 to
institutionalize, at a high level, the preinvestment function and the
allocation of priorities. The report states that this Council has not
met since its creation and has not fulfilled the role for which it was
created;
(b) the merger of ONP and FP did not take place because of legal and
administrative impediments.  ONP is part of the Technical Planning
Secretariat (STP) and FP of the Central Bank of Paraguay. To merge
the two institutions would require legislation establishing a new
autonomous  institution.    The  report  concludes  that  this  new
institution, by itself, would not be sufficient to improve the
efficiency of the preinvestment function;
Fondo de Preinversiones - Oficina Nacional de Proyectos, Convenio de
Credito de Fomento 587-PA v 1780-PA. Informe Final de Cierre, Dec.31,
1987. Oficina Nacional de Proyectos, Informe sobre la Eiecucion del
Proyecto PAR/80/001/A/01/42 de Apoyo a la Unidad Central del Sistema
de Preinversion, Feb. 1988.
2    FOFIN-CUENCA cofinancing of Loan 1780-PA.



- 14 -
(c)  the provision of technical support was not without problems.   The
contracting of a preinvestment expert remained an unresolved problem
owing to differences of opinion between ONP and the Bank about the
expert's role;
(d)  the  technical  assistance  to  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture  was
instrumental in consolidating the Technical Cabinet of this Ministry.
Progress was also reported in DIPROFI, BNF, and the Ministry of Public
Works;
(e)  the modus operandi of FP remains in step with the agreements reached
under Credit 587-PA; and
(f)  the restructuring of the Management Committee of FP was implemented.
ONP's director replaced the Executive Secretary of STP, who became a
member of CONAPRI.
2.04      ONP report states that the objectives of the project were accomplished
only in part. CONAPRI was created but did not function, and the coordination
between DIPROFI, STP and the Budget Directorate of the Ministry of Finance did
not materialize.   Despite these shortcomings,  the report notes progress in
developing a national consultant's roster, the development of a number of well-
prepared projects and the strengthening of ONP/FP.
2.05      For ONP/FP the main problems encountered by the project are:
(a)  low demand for FP financing;
(b)  difficulties in the preparation and approval of FP's yearly work
program;
(c)  difficulties in the processing of subloan applications, mainly at the
stage of contract signing;
(d)  slow disbursement of subloans; and
(e)  slow recovery of subloans.
2.06      ONP/FP also reported on the status of the 27 studies financed by
Credit 587-PA and Loan 1780-PA. As of December 1987, 17 projects were either
completed or under implementation, one had the financing to begin the
construction, three were looking for financing, and six still needed either
detailed engineering studies or feasibility studies.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
IL0Crsdlt                 Purpose             Year of       Prin ipl - 'Stt
Approval                  (-January 31, i992
Credit No. 587-PA    Pre-investment studies        1975
Loan No. 1087-PA1'    Caazapa rural                1982      USS31.0 million        USS14 million
development                                                   undisbursed
Loan No. 2141-PAr    Eje Norte rural               1982      USS22.4 million        USS4.3 million
devetopment                                                   undisbursed
Loan No. 2372-PA-1   Livestock VII                 1984      USS25.0 million        Disbursed
J These loars were prepared with the assistance of consultants hired under Loan No. 1780 or by the UNDP. The
Preinvestment studies for Loans 2141-PA and 2372-PA were financed by Credit No. 587-PA.
2. Project Timetablte
I t   -r-n-    - j-  jDot  lanned                     -Dflted Rev se             Date  -tu
Identification             February 10, 1979                     -               February 10, 1979
Approisal                  Nay 10, 1979                          -               May 10, 1979
Loan Negotiation           September 26, 1979                    -               September 26, 1979
Board Approval             December 13, 1979                     -               December 13, 1979
Loan Agreement             December 19, 1979                                     December 19, 1979
Effectiveness              March 18, 1980                Nay 19, 1980            September 19, 1980
Loan Closing               December 31, 1984              December 31, 1985      December 31, 1986
Loan Completion            Jure 30, 1984                  Jure 30, 1985          August 12, 1987



- 16 -
3. Cumulative Estimeted and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~X                    ..   ~.......                  .
fet:: Yeewi              FYtO    FY1    FY82    FY8      F4-     FY85      8     FY8 F- 
Appraisat Estim_ te |     0.1     0.6     1.6     2.7      4.2     5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0
Actuat                     -       -       -               0.5     1.5     1.6    1.7       1.8
Actual as X of Finance    -        -               -      11.9  1 30.0     32.0   34.0   36.0
Source: Bank Staff
DteS of First Ohsisamn                   n  sst---98
Initil Lon :t CoSl  Date         -       cu*  31  1984:
Aci tust    Loa o.. .  . .. -  .    .... . .  30.  1  9
-   f Lcast  -lbra    n              Auus           - 198 -
4. ProJect Estineted Cost
CUSS mIllion)
,,,  .  , i,   2    ,  ,,,,,   ..  ........
Sub~loens for prelnvestment studies        3.0        4.0          3.0           -          10.0
Sub~loens for prefeasibiLity studies       1.0        1.0           -            -           2.0
TechniL k   Assistance                                 ..-          -           1 0          1 0
TOTAL                                      4.0        5.0          3.0          10          13.



- 17 -
5. Prolect Estimated Financing
INsl TUIOe                        -oeu         t   "S lI~c  --      nt     |
BCP                   4.0             -             4.0            31.0
BANK                   -             5.0            5.0            38.0
FOFIN-CUENCA                         3.0            3.0            23.0
UNDP                  0.2            0.8            1.0             8.0
TOTAL                 4.2            8.8            13.0           100.0
6. Allocation of Loan Proceeds: Orialnal and Actual
(USS MilLion)
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              .....  .....
::::: -f    -     :.-. - i   t- ~i.n               lei-i- AIctI                    AoFt-a  A 5o1 -tloniM     
".',-.,..,..,...,'X.... ... .. ::  ... .                                                         . . . .
7::.    :~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~n.0
Asa'stence                                                                   . .a....a
Bank              5.0          -        5.0      4.3          0.7       5.0       1.1         0.7        1.8
FOFIN-            3.0          -        3.0      3.0           -        3.0       2.7          -        2.7
1.4         -         1.4
-         I''                       - i ; wlw_I I  .-         1.0       1.0
LL5.2         1.7       6. 9
Sources: Bank Files
ONP, Informe Final de Cierre, Convenios de Credito de Fomwnto 587-A y 1780-PA, December 31, 1987.
OMP, Informe Sobre la Elecucion del Provecto (Par/80/001/A101/42)
de Aoovo a la Unidad Central del Sistema de Preinversion. Febrero. 1988



- 18 -
7. Prolect Results
A.  Distribution of Subloans by Sectors
$SeCts               Mwtwi              r   af P'erceege      anfSf,iI.tort  perce.tage
Oprtons
Infrastructure                   6               60.0             2.3             44.2
Social                           2                20.0            1.2             23.0
Rural Development                1                10.0            1.7             32.7
Urban Development                1                10.0            0.1               0.1
TOTAL                            10              100.0            5.2            100.0
B.  Distribution of SubLoans by Activity
Stw~~~~ie  Uw~~....... .f.........$IUonPecwt
,   !   ::   !:: ,.!   !  ,:   !. . .  : .! !:    g ...   ..:  .   ....  .!.:     P :     :..,  !  .. !.. !. 
Operat Ions~~~~~~u"  tt 
FeasibiLity             1              10.0              1.7              32.7
Engineering             5              50.0              2.8              53.8
Sector                  4              40.0              0.7              13.5
TOTAL                  10              100.0             5.2             100.0
C. Estimated Sector Distribution of Studies at Aooraisal
Agriculture                      16                 39.0
Transportation                   18                 43.9
Education                        2                    4.9
Public Services                  3                    7.3
Industry                         2                    4.9
TOTAL                            41                100.0



- 19 -
8. Status of Covenants
.~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~... .. .. ..... ......  ... ..         ......''"'''"""''"''"'''
~~~~~~....,,j                , .  . .   .    . .   . . . .
Secton 2 03                 FP' b ubloans would finance up to 100% of the  Complied with.
cost of studie and would have * maximum term
of seven years, Including two years of grace.
Secton 2.06                 FP to submit all proposed subloans over       Complbed with.
US$200,000 to the Bank, including the draft
contraet between the borrower and corneultants.
Section 4.01 (b)           Th. decision as to whether FP needs G3overnment   Not complied with.
support would be made prior to the beginningo f
each fiscl yew, on the basi of FP b yearly work
____________________programs and financial projections.
Section 4.01(c)             Funds from the proposed loan to be made       Complied with.
availabhe to FP as capitl. Repayments of the
subloans would remaln In FP and would continue
to be used for the purpose of the loan._________
Seton 4.02(d)              The responsibility for approval of indMdual    Complied with
studies would be vested In FP s managemenit
committe.
Section 4.07                The tGovermment would provide a global        Complied with.
guarantee for all subloans to be committed under
_____ ____ _____ ____ ____ proJect.
Section 4.11                Assurances from the 3overmmenit that study    Complied with
proposals not eligible for Bank financing would be
funded from other sources.
Section 5.03               The Prelnveemnt Fund (FP) and the National     Not complied with
ProJects Office would merge by June 30, 1981,
forming a sIngle autonomous instiution.
Secton 7.01 (a)            The aubeidiary agreemenit between the          Complied with
Government and the Central Bank has been
____ ____ ___ ____ ____ __ *Igned.                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Secton 7.01 (c)            The Financial Programming Unit would be        Complied wit In
established in the Ministry of Finace         Septsmber 1960. The
Unit however, did not
work In a manner
satisfacory to the
Seton 7.01 (d)             The loan agreement between FOFIN - CUENCA      Complied with In
and Paraguay to be declared efeective         October 1960.
SecUion 7.01 (I            The UNDP grant for the technical assistance    Complied with.
component to be obtained.
1./msi'd " _                         X pg AFmmeat me, oa- kasi up.~s otdu gence  ..d           ......



- 20 -
9. Use of Bank Resources
A.Stgoff Irwuts
I _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   -.   ,.. . . . . . . . ............ .....   ............ ..,-
Through Appraisal                                9.3
Appraisal - Board aWroval                        24.3
Board approval - effectiveness                   7.7
Supervision                                      45.9
TOTAL                                       87.2
B. 1ss1on
Preappraisal                           FY 79              3            2 ECN, 1 RSR                9.3
Appraisal                              FY 79              3            2 ECU  1 MSG                4.7
Appraisal                              FY 80              2            LOF, ECN                    7.0
Negot1ation                            FY 80              2            LOF, ECN                    12.6
Board approval   effectiveness         FY 80              2            LOF, ECI                    7.7
Superv1sion: Delays in                 FY 81              2            LVS, ECN                    11.2
lapLementation
Spervison: Delays in                   FY 82              4            2 ECN, LVS, LOY             13.2
iplementation and in conpliance
with saw covenants
Supervison: Delays  n                  FY 83              2            LOF, ECN                    4.5
implementation and in compliance
with s    covenants
Spervision: Delays In                  FY 84              1            LOF                         7.0
implt_ntation and in compliance
with some covwnnts
Supervision: Delays In                 FY 85              2            LOF, ECU                    5.1
implementation and in comliance
with some covenants
Supervision: Closing                   FY 86              2            LOF                         3.9
arrangements
Supervision: ClosIng                   FY 88              1            COF                         1.0
arrangements



- 21 -
Table 10: First Preinvestment Studies Credit
(Credit 587-PA)
January 1, 1992
Related Bank Loans
Loan                 Purpoe                Year Approved   Loon Amount      Disbursed       Canceled
In USS Million
1346-PA     Education III                         1976           8.0            8.0
1418-PA     Rural Development 11                  1977          22.0            22.0
1529-PA     Highways V                            1978          33.0           33.0
1736-PA     Highways VI                           1979          39.0            35.3              3.7
1674-PA     Livestock & Agriculture               1979          25.0           24.7               0.3
Development
2087-PA     Caaza   Rural Development2'           1982           31.0           16.1
2140-PA     Highways VII                          1982           46.0           46.0
2141-PA     Eje Norte Rural Development2'         1982           22.4           17.1
9 Preinvestent studies for these loans were financed by Credit 587-PA.
5' Thes investment projects were conpleted with technical assistance provided under Loan 1780-UR.
Source: Bank files and ONP, Informs Final de Cierre, Convenios de Creditos de Famanto 587-PA y 1780-PA,
Decafber 31, 1987.



- 22 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PARGA
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
(LOAN 1780-PA)
Table 11: Key Prolect Data
Appraisal    Actual
Total Project Cost                                              13.0       6.9
Preinvestment, prefeasibility and engineering studies    (12.0)         (5.2)
Technical assistance                                          (1.0)     (1.7)
Bank Loan Amount                                                 5.0       1.8 A/
Terms:  Interest Rate                                          7.95X       -
Maturity                                           17 years       -
Grace                                              4 years        -
Commitment Fee                         3/4 of 1X per annum
Relending Terms:  Interest Rate (percentage)                     6.0        6.0
Maturity                            up to 7 years up to 7 years
Grace                                     2 years      2 years
Time Overrun                                                                53X k/
Institutional Development                                    Satisfactory Limited
Borrower:      Republic of Paraguay
Executing
Agencies:      Fondo de Preinversion (FP), a special fund in the Central Bank,
and the technical unit, Oficina Nacional de Proyectos (ONP) of the
Technical Planning Secretariat (STP).
Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time taken to prepare the operation: about six months
(b) Operation prepared by: ONP with the cooperation of a UNDP mission.
(c) First IBRD mission: February 1979
(d) Appraisal Mission: May 1979
(e) Negotiations: September 1979
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 1980
(g) Actual Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980
(h) Initial Closing Date: December 31, 1984
(i) Actual Closing Date: December 31, 1986
(j) Last Disbursement Data: August 12, 1987
A/     US$3,170,038 of the original loan was canceled on June 30, 1987.
The initial Closing Date was December 31,  1984 or 60 months after
signing.   The actual closing date was December 31, 1986 or about 24



