Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2612-PA
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
November 20, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             6 126
¢ 1.00              US$0.008
¢ 1,000             US$7.94
¢ 1,000,000         US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
FOFIN-CUENCA - Fondo Financiero Para el Desarrollo
de la Cuenca del Plata
FP            -  Preinvestment Fund
ONP           -  National Projects Office
STP           -  Technical Secretariat for Planning
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
BORROWER:            Republic of Paraguay
BENEFICIARY:         Preinvestment Fund, a special account in the
Central Bank of Paraguay
AMOUNT:              US$5.0 million equivalent
TERMS:               Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at
7.95% interest per annum
RELENDING TERMS:    The proceeds of the Bank loan would be on-lent through
the Preinvestment Fund to puiblic sector agencies for
seven years, including two years of grace, at 6% per
annum. The Preinvestment Fund would retain the repayment
thereby building up its capital.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:       The proposed project would:  (a) through the Preinvestment
Fund and the National Projects Office, finance subloans
to generate a pipeline of well-prepared public investment
projects and to support institution-building and sector
analysis efforts; (b) consolidate the preinvestment mechan-
ism established under the first Preinvestment Studies
Project (Credit 587-PA of 1975) through technical assis-
tance in project preparation to the National Project
Office, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Public Works
and Communications, and National Development Bank; and
(c) provide technical assistance to establish a multi-year
financial planning and programming mechanism within the
Ministry of Finance that will incorporate in its forecasts
the financial implications of the investments generated by
the preinvestment studies.
BENEFITS
AND RISKS:         The project is expected to foster better resource alloca-
tion, improved budgeting and more effective coordination
of external financial assistance.  All these combined
would contribute to maximize the benefits derived from the
public investment effort. The major risk under the project
would be the degree of support that the project and its
objectives would have among the Government agencies.
However, the establishment of a high level Council for the
Preinvestment Fund and the decision to set up a Financial
Programming Unit in the Ministry of Finance signal
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatiork.



- ii -
the Government's commitment to support and streamline the
preinvestment process, which should help improve acceptance
of the Preinvestment Fund's activities among public sector
agencies.
Local /1   Foreign
PROJECT COSTS:                Components               Costs        Costs     Total
(US$ Millions)
Subloans for preinvestment
studies                           3           7          10
Subloans for prefeasibility
studies (sector analysis
and institution-building)         1           1           2
Technical assistance to
Government agencies               0.2         0.8         1
TOTAL                          4.2         8.8       13
/1   The project is exempt from taxes and duties.
PROJECT FINANCING:                            Local      Foreign
(US$ Millions)                               Costs       Costs     Total
Preinvestment Fund       4.0                    4.0
Bank                                 5.0        5.0
FOFIN-CUENCA                         3.0        3.0
UNDP                     0.2         0.8        1.0
TOTAL               4.2         8.8       13.0
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:                      FY 1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
(US$ Millions)
Annual               0.1    0.5    1.0    1.1    1.5    0.8
Cumulative           0.1    0.6    1.6    2.7    4.2    5.0
ECONOMIC RATE
OF RETURN:         Not applicable
APPRAISAL REPORT:   None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF' PARAGUAY FOR A
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on the proposed
loan to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$5.0 million to
assist in financing the Second Preinvestment Studies Project. The loan
would have a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.95% per annum. The proceeds of the loan, to finance preinvestment and
pre-feasibility studies, would be made available to the Preinvestment Fund
(FP) on a non-reimbursable basis; FP would on-lend these proceeds to public
sector agencies for seven years, including two years of grace, at 6% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in October 1978 and the up-
dating economic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, has
been distributed to the Executive Directors ("Economic Memorandum on Paraguay"
(2461-PA), May 1979).
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport netuwork. The private sector still
consists mainly of small traditional firms, and the role of the public sector
in the economy is limited. For many decades, per capita income and employment
grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet for unemployed and under-
employed manpower. More recently, however, the economy has been growing
rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to neighboring countries have
returned, responding to the expanded employment opportunities associated with
the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore, the expansion of the agri-
cultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of farmers from abroad.
Nevertheless, the country's population density remains very low in relation
to agricultural land.
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully
realized during the 1970's with the rapid expansion of land under cultivation
and the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
1/   Paragraphs 3-13 are substantially the same as the ones contained in the
Presidents Report for the Sixth Highway Project (Report P-2576-PA of
June 4, 1979).



- 2 -
of the stretch of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil
and Argentina. A rise in external demand and favorable prices were instru-
mental in accelerating agricultural growth. The effective supply response
of Paraguayan agriculture has been assisted by improvements in transport and
implementation of a comprehensive set of programs designed to increase and
diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural growth of recent years has
brought about an improvement in the real incomes of the rural population,
which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A significant share of
production of tobacco, cotton, and soybeans, which account for most of the
recent expansion, is grown by small farmers who have received land under the
Government and privately sponsored colonization programs. Roughly 25% of
agricultural workers have benefitted from these land settlement efforts.
Moreover, recently, rural wages have increased sharply in some areas where
demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of
agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. This has reduced
rural-urban migration. Per capita income grew at 5.2% per annum during
1972-78 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the previous 30 years. Growth
in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other improvements in the
standard of living as life expectancy and literacy have increased, and infant
mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable to those found in
countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in recent years, the
Government has started to carry out a series of programs aimed at extending
social and other back-up services, financial support, and technical assistance
to existing and new land settlements. These programs should help in spreading
the benefits of growth even more effectively among the poorer segments of the
population.
5.        Exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has been facil-
itated by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two binational
authorities for the construction and operation of two or more hydroelectric
plants aggregating at least 17,000 MW. Construction of the Itaipu dam with
Brazil, the largest ever built, has begun and is on schedule. Paraguay's
economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation spurred mainly by
agricultural expansion and construction activity on the Itaipu dam. The
rapid growth of agriculture has continued unabated in 1977-78, and, together
with the reactivation of agroindustrial activity in the wood and beef sectors,
has resulted in acceleration of the GDP growth rate to over 9% in 1977-78
(as compared to 6% in 1975-76). These developments have been accompanied by
increased foreign capital inflows, a notable expansion of investment levels,
and an acceleration of economic growth.
6.        Growth has been accompanied by relative price stability.  The rate
of inflation which reached 22% in 1974 decelerated to 8% in 1975 and 6% in
1976 because of austere monetary and fiscal policies as well as the tapering
off of price increases for imports and exports. The rapid increase in the
money supply generated by large capital inflows associated with the con-
struction of Itaipu dam and buoyant domestic demand resulted in a moderately
higher inflation rate of 7.9% in 1977 and about 12% in 1978. While con-
tractionary fiscal policies have helped in easing inflationary pressures,
these policies alone cannot be an effective instrument for this purpose given



- 3 -
the relatively small role of the Central Government in the economy and the
effects of the expansive forces, including the effects of foreign inflation.
Moreover, undue reliance on such a policy could jeopardize the implementation
of important development projects and social services. In the circumstances,
the authorities are relying on the openness of the Paraguayan economy, which
enables imports to act as an effective regulating mechanism to domestic demand
pressures. However, there is little that a small, price-taking country like
Paraguay can do to insulate itself from the effects of foreign inflation.
7.        The buoyant economy and measures introduced to improve the effi-
ciency of tax administration have reversed the declining trend in the ratio
of Central Government revenues to GDP during 1974-76, raising the ratio from
9.0% in 1976 to over 10% in 1978. The Government continued to maintain a
tight rein on expenditures, which have remained at about the same proportion
of GDP during the last five years. Thus, Central Government savings increased
during 1977/78. Several large projects initiated during 1974-76 were com-
pleted so that public sector investment declined from its peak of 6.4% of GDP
in 1976 to about 4.5% in 1978. Net external financing exceeded the reduced
financing requirements allowing the Government to reduce its debt outstanding
to the monetary authorities.
8.        Despite substantially higher imports in 1977 (US$360 million, up
from US$236 million in 1976 mainly as a result of importation of capital goods
imports), Paraguay's registered trade deficit increased from US$56 million
in 1976 to only US$81 million in 1977, since increased imports were largely
compensated by the rapid expansion of agricultural exports. The trade deficit
is estimated to have widened further in 1978, as imports continued to grow at
a rapid pace and the country suffered a 40% loss of the soybean crop due to
bad weather. Although trading partner data suggest that these registered
figures may be underestimated by as much as 50%, there is no question that
increased public and private capital inflows, mainly associated with the
construction of the hydroelectric project, have more than offset the current
account deficit and added to the level of reserves. Foreign exchange reserves
have thus increased from US$150 million at the end of 1976 to about US$440
million by December 1978.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization



- 4 -
schemes and the establishment of some additional ones. Through foreign
private investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage
the concurrent development of industries, particularly those with high
value-added and dependent on domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the on-going boom in private invest-
ment and the prospect of continued high rates of GDP growth will call for
greater public investment in supporting infrastructure as well as increased
expenditure for education, health, rural development and other development-
related services. The needed acceleration of public capital formation will
require new tax measures, pending substantial transfers from power export
earnings to the Central Government, to ensure the generation of the necessary
additional internal resources. At the same time, higher current expenditures
in the public sector will be required to improve effectiveness and broaden
the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large number
of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the
technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for devoting
increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector
institutions. A broader investment effort will require streamlining and
decentralizing the decision-making process. Moreover, salaries of scarce
professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively with
the increased demands of the private sector and the binational power companies
for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and the urgent need
for greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed to bolster
the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected agricultural acreage expansion and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 10% during 1979-83. Because of agricultural
growth and favorable international prospects for cotton and soybeans, real
exports are projected to grow at 13% a year during this period. Imports,
mainly of intermediate and capital goods, are projected to grow at 12% per
year. The above trade projections combined with steadily increasing net
factor payments on public and private account would result in a widening of
the current account deficit from an average of US$270 million during 1977-78
to an annual average of US$400 million in 1979-83. Private sector borrowing
and capital inflow related to construction of the hydroelectric projects,
are expected to provide a substantial part of the gross capital requirements
and the rest would be borrowed on the public account. Bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies are projected to supply a smaller share of external capital
requirements than they had historically. Private financial institutions and
supplier's credits can be expected to provide the rest. As Itapu related
capital inflows decrease, to cover the current account deficit, public sector
borrowing is projected to rise from an average of US$150 million during
1979-81 to US$280 million in 1982-83. Given the projected export performance,
Paraguay is expected to maintain its current low debt service ratio and
creditworthiness for the amounts of external capital required to achieve the
envisaged output growth rates.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$243.1 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$193.3 million has been in
the form of 16 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As
of September 30, 1979, the Bank and IDA held US$232.5 million, including
US$147.4 million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of
September 30, 1979, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt,
with a blend of about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD. The service on this debt amounted
to 7% of total debt service in 1977 or about 1% of exports of goods and non-
factor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA assistance to Paraguay has
been 43% for transportation, 39% for agriculture, 9% for education, 4% for
industry, 3% for water supply, and 2% for preinvestment studies in various
sectors. Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had one operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a
wood processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with
FINAP, S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of
US$1.0 million, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of
US$0.4 million. The project has experienced critical financial and managerial
problems, and efforts to restructure it have not succeeded. Legal proceedings
have been initiated against FINAP by the NationaL Development Bank and IFC.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and the IFC investment
as of September 30, 1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY79 consisted of the US$25.0
million loan for a livestock and agricultural development project and the
US$39.0 million loan for a sixth highway project. Preparation work is underway
on projects in: ports and inland waterways, rural development, area develop-
ment (including watershed protection and rural development), and industrial and
regional development.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector to increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.



- 6 -
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of
the Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its
composition. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends
listed and may, moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus,
Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural water supply
is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the living
standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. Similarly, Bank
Group lending for industry, agricultural development and livestock is aimed at
increasing value added and exports of agricultural products, and at expanding
marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers. Lastly, loans in the
transport sector are designed to help improve institutional structures and
policies of the sector, which play a vital role in supporting the production
activities of the agricultural and industrial sectors. As agriculture consti-
tutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy, these operations are designed
to support either directly or indirectly the development of that sector, by
underpinning in particular the Government's efforts aimed at extending social
and other backup services, financial support and technical assistance to
existing and new agricultural settlements. Furthermore, in view of the
increasing development potential of the southeastern region (as a result of
the expanding agricultural frontier and the impact of the construction of the
large hydroelectric projects)--and the need to assure maximum possible results,
the Bank lending program for Paraguay is to place increased emphasis on
projects in that region. Projects such as the proposed operation fit the
Bank's overall strategy in Paraguay aimed at supporting programs that help
overcome institutional constraints, in particular in planning, economic
management, and project preparation and execution. In this context, special
emphasis is placed on strengthening public institutions and financial inter-
mediaries.
PART III - PUBLIC INVESTMENT AND PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVITIES
Planning, Organization and Administration
19.       The Technical Secretariat for Planning (STP), which reports to the
President of the Republic, is responsible for preparing five-year economic
development plans. However, planning is fundamentally of an indicative
character. The plans establish overall development strategy, economic growth
and minimum investment targets as well as a tentative list of projects to be
carried out by the public sector. This list represents mainly ideas about
possible projects; Government commitments to investment proposals are actually
made at the time of the annual budget on the basis of the stage of readiness
of each proposal. Approval of the main project investment proposals are given
by the National Economic Coordination Council, a ministerial-level decision-
making body for economic and social matters, headed by the President of the
Republic. The budgetary process thus tends to favor the ministries and/or
agencies that are most capable of preparing projects in that they receive
the bulk of resources, sometimes regardless of the priority ranking of their
investment projects from the vantage point of economic development.



- 7 -
20.       To overcome this problem in part, the Government established in
1975 with Bank support a Preinvestment Fund (FP) in the form of a semi-
autonomous account in Central Bank to increase the project preparation capacity
of the public sector. FP is operated by a Management Committee consisting of
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, STP and the Central Bank.
21.       To assist FP in its endeavors, the National Projects Office (ONP),
a department of STP, is acting as executing agency for preinvestment work.
ONP has been the driving force behind FP. ONP's current organizational set-up
appears to be satisfactory. It is headed by a Director appointed by the
President of the Republic and has a staff of 16 professionals, of whom nine
are involved in operations and the remaining seven in administration. ONP has
two departments:  a technical department responsible for subloan identification,
processing and supervision; and a financial-administrative department respon-
sible for budgeting and programming, as well as financial and overall administ--
ration. The quality of ONP staff still needs to be upgraded. Up to the
present, ONP has been unable to retain well-qualified staff because its salary
scale is too low when compared to that of semi-autonomous public and private
institutions. Although FP's regulations provide for financial support for ONP,
this amount has so far been limited to 1.5% or 1/4 of the 6% interest accrued
from subloans. This amount has been too small, especially in a period when
FP's portfolio has expanded slowly, to step up aLdequately the salaries of staff,
which are otherwise fixed at the normal civil service rates. The current inter-
national advisors--an agricultural economist and a transport specialist--have
provided the necessary expertise to ONP for hanclling operations in their
respective fields. However, the absence of proper counterpart personnel in
executing ministries has limited their contribution to institution-building.
In addition, weaknesses in project preparation capacity within most public
sector agencies has required more involvement of FP/ONP than is desirable from
a financial intermediary in preparation of terms of reference and associated
work.
22.       The country's economic development strategy calls for heavy reliance
on the private sector, and accordingly a limited role of the Government in
total investments. During 1973-77, the public sector investment accounted
for only about 24% of total investment and about 5% of GDP. The public
sector's role has been geared towards the provision of key infrastructure,
as well as productive and social services. The Central Administration has
been responsible for about 35% of public sector investment and semi-
autonomous enterprises about 55%, with the rest being spent by Municipalities.
Public sector investment has concentrated on infrastructure (close to 70%
of total public sector investment went to energy, transport and communica-
tions), while investment in productive sectors has been small because they
benefit more from indirect investments through Government provision of credit.
Public investments in social sectors has been comparatively small, as a result
of austere expenditure policies as well as weak project preparation and
administrative capacity.
23.       In all, the improved economic situat:ion described above has made
it possible to think of an expanded level of public expenditures.  This would
enable the authorities to extend recent gains in managerial and physical



- 8 -
capacity and, more importantly, sustain the growth process in the longer-run.
This situation, however, heightens the need for increased capacity for
identifying, preparing and, later on, executing projects.  Improved project
preparation would assist the Government in undertaking appropriate investment
decisions, reduce the possibilities of cost overruns and of costly delays in
project execution which lead, in turn, to postponements in project benefits.
Given the investments required to realize the country's potential and the
limited resources available to the Government, efficient project preparation
is expected to make a significant contribution to higher capital productivity.
Moreover, well-prepared projects would enable the Government to negotiate the
best financial and technical terms for project implementation. Finally, a
strengthened project preparation and execution capacity would realize the
Government's objective of a higher level of public investment and its altered
allocation towards the social sector.
24.       In 1975, IDA approved a credit for the equivalent of US$4.0 million
for a Preinvestment Studies Project (Credit 587-PA). The project aimed at:
(a) increasing the number of well-prepared public investment projects;
(b) establishing an efficient preinvestment mechanism; and (c) improving
coordination at the planning-budgeting level. The Credit funds are channeled
through FP with the support of ONP. Although the project had some difficult
beginnings, the project's concept gradually gained acceptance amongst Govern-
ment agencies in the course of implementation. The project has been instru-
mental in transforming several ideas into concrete and viable proposals. Up
to the present, the FP/ONP has approved 17 subloans(see Annex IV, Part I) for
a total of about US$5.5 million (compared to an estimated total of US$6.0
million at the time of appraisal). Five of these studies have been completed
and the rest are at various stages of execution. As of now, FP's Management
Committee has approved subloans entailing US$4.0 million in Credit funds of
which US$2.7 million has been formally committed. Since the bulk have been
committed over the last year, only about US$0.6 million have been disbursed so
far. In view of the existence of a comprehensive Transport Survey, the bulk
of the studies financed have been in that sector as expected at the time of
appraisal. However, a review of rural development areas with support under the
technical assistance component of the project (financed by UNDP) provided the
basis for preparation, currently underway, of a number of new rural development
projects. Most of these studies are related in one way or another to the
Bank's lending in Paraguay, although FP/ONP has now started to finance studies
that might be associated with other sources of financing.
25.       Hitherto, preinvestment financing has been limited to feasibility
studies and final engineering, with the major part of the funds going into the
latter. In view of the fragmentary basis of knowledge prevailing in a number
of sectors, and the increasing demands that more numerous and complex projects--
in particular those of a rural-development type--place on the public administra-
tion, there is a need for pre-feasibility work, as well as for studies focusing
on institutional improvements required to strengthen public sector capacities
to execute the programs and projects in various sectors.
26.       Institutional development has been limited except for the expertise
gained to date by ONP, which is now able to assist Government agencies in
transforming ideas into concrete project proposals. However, as mentioned



- 9 -
in paragraph 21, ONP's activities have been hindered by budgetary limitations.
The main bottleneck under the ongoing project has proved to be the relatively
long and cumbersome subloan approval process, in particular at the Central
Government level. Delays have been chiefly due to: (i) the relatively long
period of time needed to obtain legally required guarantees from the Ministry
of Finance for each subloan; (ii) the absence for decisionmaking purposes of
reliable information regarding the Government's financial strength and needs
in the future, the relevance of the proposed studies to overall development
objectives and availability of financing for ensuing project implementation;
(iii) the tendency of various Government agencies to attempt to seek their own
sources of financing, thereby avoiding the procedural and technical discipline
required by FP/ONP; and (iv) the tendency to tailor subloan agreements to each
particular subproject. To overcome the shortcomings affecting the preinvest-
ment process, the Government has agreed on the following set of key measures:
(a)   High Level Council
27.       A high level Council, composed of the Minister of Finance, the
president of the Central Bank and the head of STP, has been established
to oversee FP policy and approve lending programs, centralize preinvestment
work in FP/ONP, and require that all major public sector investments are based
on feasibility studies. Under this arrangement, the day-to-day operations of
FP will be handled by FP's Management Committee, since there are many functions
which realistically cannot be the responsibility of the high level Council, or
functionally of ONP. The Council will instruct the Management Committee to
undertake appropriate actions on matters decided in principle by the former.
In particular, the Council would primarily be a policy-making body, which
would approve FP's work programs; responsibility for approval of individual
studies would be vested in FP's Management Committee, which would have autho-
rity to sign all relevant legal documents (Section 4.02(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). To assure that FP's Management Committee becomes the type of
executive body envisioned for this activity, ONP must be suitably represented
in FP's operations and management.  To this end, the Government has undertaken
that, as a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Loan, the head of ONP
would substitute the head of STP in the Management Committee (Section 7.01(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b)   Global Guarantee
28.       The Government has agreed to provide, in the context of the Loan
Agreement for the proposed project, a global guarantee for all subloans to be
committed under the project, thereby avoiding the need for specific Ministry
of Finance subloan guarantees for each individual operation (Section 4.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The Ministry would review proposals requiring FP
financing through the work of the Management Committee, the high level Council
for FP and the proposed Financial Programming Unit (paragraph 40).
(c)   Merger of FP with ONP
29.       The Government has, furthermore, decided that FP/ONP would eventually
operate as an autonomous entity, forming a single institution (as is the case
of pre-investment institutions in other countries). The Government has



- 10 -
undertaken to complete this merger by June 30, 1981 which should provide
sufficient time to work out the legal and organizational aspects of the new
entity (Section 5.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, an earlier target
for the merger may not be feasible, in view of the relatively undeveloped
stage of feasibility work in Paraguay and the inter-agency implications, in
particular with respect to the control that such a mechanism could exert on
resource allocation.
(d)   Other Measures
30.       FP/ONP have prepared standard forms of contract for subloan agree-
ments which are satisfactory to the Bank, thereby avoiding ad hoc subloan
documents for each proposal. In the context of the proposed project, to
improve the preinvestment process, a Financial Programming Unit would be
established in the Ministry of Finance to provide reliable information
on investment matters.
31.       In order to improve ONP's salary structure and bring it up to the
level of the Central Bank, the authorities agreed to allocate 1/3 of the
interest of subloans (Section 2.05(a)(iii) of the draft Project Agreement) to
ONP for salary adjustments. The Government has furthermore agreed that a
structure of compensation levels satisfactory to the Bank would be established
by June 30, 1980 (Section 5.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Financial
projections for FP operations show that the above-mentioned salary structure
could be financed on the basis of current budgetary allocations including
the margin mentioned above.
Technical Assistance
32.       Paraguay has been receiving substantial amounts of technical assis-
tance from bilateral and multilateral sources, mostly for general sector
studies and institution building. This assistance has contributed to improving
the general information base about the country, but has been insufficient for
project preparation in the public sector.
33.       The main sources of technical assistance have been the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), the United States Agency of International Development
(USAID), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), the Organization of
American States (OAS), and the Governments of Japan and the Federal Republic
of Germany.  IDB and USAID have been providing technical assistance to the
Ministry of Agriculture to plan the execution of a series of rural development-
type, and research and extension projects. The IDB has also recently assisted
STP in preparing general development plans for the areas of influence of the
hydroelectric projects in Eastern Paraguay. IDB intends to provide technical
assistance to the Ministry of Industry in project preparation. OAS has
recently completed a training program for ONP personnel in project evaluation,
and is undertaking the preliminary steps for the preparation of a rural
development scheme in the minifundia-concentrated Department of Paraguari. The
UNDP program--which totals about US$7.5 million for the period 1977-1981--
encompasses most sectors of the economy and is closely associated with the
Bank's lending program in Paraguay. In particular, it has provided the
technical assistance required by ONP to execute the first Preinvestment Studies
Project, as well as technical assistance for the Small Farmer Credit and Rural



- 11 -
Development Project (Credit 509-PA of 1974), Vocational Training Project (Loan
1252-PA of 1976), Second Rural Development Project (Loan 1418-PA of 1977),
Industrial Development Credit Project (Loan 1419-PA of 1977), and Livestock
and Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA of 1979).  UNDP has also
provided general assistance to STP to prepare the five-year plans and has, in
conjunction with UNIDO, carried ouit a survey of industrial possibilities in
Paraguay, in particular those of an energy-intensive nature. UNDP intends to
continue providing technical assistance in project preparation for the proposed
project; this participation helps ensure better coordination of activities
with this major technical assistance agency. Bilateral sources of finance
have, on the other hand, emphasized technical assistance required for the
execution of specific projects; in some instances they have included
feasibility/detailed engineering as part of turn-key contracts.
34.       The trend in technical assistance is to foster institutional
development and to improve general project preparation, regardless of the
source of financing of the ensuing investment projects. The recent initia-
tives mentioned above, in the fields of agriculture and regional planning,
fit this strategy. Similarly, the Bank's program in Paraguay has been aimed
at supporting efforts that would lead to an appropriate sequence of projects.
Such efforts include the carrying out of the review of rural development
areas, which at present forms the basis for FP/ONP future program in the rural
development field; a study on "Regional Development in Eastern Paraguay"
(1978) that forms the basis for project preparation and execution under way
in that area; technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works and
Communications to strengthen overall transport planning. There is a growing
recognition among the Government, and multilateral and bilateral agencies of
the benefits of working in a coordinated manner in Paraguay, in order to avoid
duplication of efforts and foster compatible approaches, which could improve
the use of the relatively scarce local manpower resources. To this end, the
FP/ONP system is increasingly being regarded, by both local and foreign
agencies, as a useful tool to improve aid coordination.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of this report.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. Annex IV
contains a more detailed description of studies financed under the ongoing
project, a tentative list of studies to be financed under the proposed project,
terms of reference of the Financial Programming Unit, costs of technical
assistance and financial projections of FP. The project was prepared between
February and April 1979, and was appraised in May 1979. Negotiations were
held in Washington in September/October 1979; the Paraguayan delegation was
led by Dr. J.D. Samaniego, Secretary General of the Central Bank.
Project Objectives and General Description
36.       Taking account of the experience gained under the first operation, the
proposed project aims at overcoming the obstacles affecting the preinvestment
mechanism in Paraguay noted above. Thus, the main objectives of the proposed



- 12 -
project wouLd be to help: (a) generate a pipeline of well-prepared public
investment projects; (b) support institution-building and sector analysis
efforts; (c) consolidate the preinvestment mechanism established under the
first project; and (d) establish a multi-year financial planning and program-
ming mechanism in the Ministry of Finance that will suitably link the country's
budgetary process with the financial implications of the investments generated
through the preinvestment process. These objectives are complementary and
would contribute to improve the decision-making process in the area of public
investment and enhance resource allocation. Specifically, the project would
include the following components:
(a) Preinvestment Studies
37.       To meet the first objective--to generate public investment projects--
the project would include a four-year lending program through FP/ONP, to
public sector institutions to finance the costs of hiring consultants to
prepare and review specific preinvestment studies (i.e., feasibility and
detailed engineering studies). The studies to be carried out would be mainly
in transportation, agriculture, and in the social sectors. A number of
specific studies have been identified as suitable for further consideration by
FP/ONP and the Bank. In the agricultural sector, a number of rural development
project studies are anticipated, stemming from the recent UNDP/Bank-supported
study of rural development areas. In transportation, FP's study pipeline
includes a number of detailed engineering studies based on feasibility surveys,
some of which have been undertaken with FP/ONP support. In many cases the
road studies are linked to agricultural projects that may also be prepared
through FP/ONP. Work on industry is expected to cover mainly agro-industries
and energy-intensive schemes linked to the hydroelectric projects (see Annex IV,
Part II for a fuller discussion of FP/ONP study pipeline).
(b) Pre-feasibility Studies
38.       To meet the second objective--to support institution-building and
sector analysis efforts--the project would include a similar program for under-
taking sector and other pre-feasibility studies, through the FP/ONP, as well
as studies focusing on institutional improvements needed to strengthen public
sector agencies, to provide basic information on a number of sectors (which
should facilitate project identification and preparation), to enhance the
Government's planning and project execution capabilities. Of particular
importance would be studies on institutions linked to the agricultural sector.
(c) Institutional Development
39.       To meet the third aim--to consolidate the preinvestment mechanism--
the project would strengthen the Government's capacity to plan, organize
and review specific studies through: (i) technical assistance to support the
work of Government agencies in the preparation of studies and (ii) the introduc-
tion of new measures aimed at improving the preinvestment mechanism. The
project would provide for the assignment of key advisors to public sector
entities likely to be the main borrowers from FP--rather than exclusively
within ONP as had been the case under the previous operation. The project



- 13 -
would provide for one advisor each in transport, agriculture and industrial
project promotion/evaluation in the Ministry of Public Works and Communications,
Ministry of Agriculture and the National Development Bank, respectively (all
for two years each). In addition, IDB is planning to provide an expert in
project preparation within the Ministry of Industry. Since ONP itself would
specialize in coordinating preinvestment activities and assisting user-agencies
in processing preinvestment requests, and accordingly project identification
and preparation would take place within the user-agencies, the project would
also include a general-purpose project coordinator at ONP, for four years, to
provide assistance on the methods required and administrative matters, coor-
dinate the project's technical assistance components, and help other agencies
in processing studies financed by FP. There would also be assistance to ONP
to organize seminars (e.g., on preinvestment and on the consulting industry in
Paraguay) and train personnel abroad.
(d) Financial Programming Unit
40.       To meet the last objective--to strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Finance to undertake medium-term financial programming--technical
assistance would be provided for a Financial Programming Unit, the establish-
ment of which, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed Loan (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The Financial Programming Unit in the Ministry of Finance would
provide a link missing between the budgetary process and the project prepara-
tion mechanism by: (i) working out the financial implications of the current
short-term project lists; (ii) establishing medium-term development budgets
for the public sector; and (iii) giving the Ministry of Finance effective
control at the day-to-day management level by having the head of the Unit
represent it on the FP Management Committee. Although the possibility of
establishing the Unit within STP was considered by the Government and the
Bank, this option was discarded since the Unit's main responsibilities would
be functions hitherto solely vested in the Ministry of Finance. The head of
the Financial Programming Unit would represent the Ministry of Finance in FP's
Management Committee. This appointment would be made at the time of the
establishment of the Unit. For the Unit, the project would include one advisor,
for two years, in organization and financial programming, and equipment. Two
local professionals and three assistants, funded by the Government, would
complete the Unit's staff (Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
41.       To ensure a minimum reasonable scale, in particular to achieve the
institution-building objectives described above, establish a solid project
pipeline and obtain maximum benefits from the technical assistance component,
the Government and the Bank have agreed on a project involving a commitment
period of four years and disbursements of five years. This has led to a
project whose total cost is estimated at US$13.0 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange component of US$8.8 million. Of this US$10.0 million would
be for subloans for preinvestment studies, US$2.0 million for subloans for
pre-feasibility studies, and US$1.0 million for technical assistance, with
costs of experts averaging about US$5,600 per man-month.  These project costs
are exempt from taxes and duties.



- 14 -
42.       The Bank loan of US$5 million would finance part of the foreign
exchange costs of the preinvestment and pre-feasibility studies components of
the project. The Fondo Financiero para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata
(FOFIN-CUENCA), a regional development financing institution based in Sucre,
Bolivia (whose members are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay)
intends to provide a line of credit of US$3 million equiva'lent to finance the
remainder of foreign exchange costs of the feasibility studies component.
This line of credit would be made available primarily through parallel finan-
cing with the Bank loan (however there may be, on an exceptional basis, some
ioint financing of studies, to be decided on a case by case basis; in such
cases the joint FOFIN-CUENCA/Bank contribution would finance the same overall
percentage of study costs as in the case of parallel financing - paragraph
50). The FOFIN-CUENCA loan would have a term of ten years, including two
years of grace, with interest at 6% per annum. This arrangement would enable
FOFIN-CUENCA to make a substantial financing contribution to Paraguay, while
at the same time mitigating the following limitations on FOFIN-CUENCA's
resources: (i) at least 60% of the funds should be spent in currencies of
Cuenca member countries; (ii) preference should be given, wherever possible,
to consultants from member countries; and (iii) funds should be spent on
proposals having regional implications, thereby excluding projects in sectors
such as urbanization and education. The decision on which subprojects would
be funded by FOFIN-CUENCA would be taken on a project-by-project basis.
Proposals meeting its requirements would be given preference to use FOFIN-
CUENCA's resources until they are exhausted. The remainder of the feasibility
studies would be allocated to the Bank loan. No major difficulties in utilizing
FOFIN-CUENCA's funds are expected: under the previous operation, a great
number of studies--mostly in the field of highways--had been undertaken by
consultants from member countries. In addition, agriculture and transport
studies are considered by FOFIN-CUENCA as broadly fitting its regional concept.
43.       The project's technical assistance would be financed by a UNDP
grant of US$1 million with the Bank acting as executing agency. The signing
of relevant documentation concerning co-financing from UNDP and the effective-
ness of the FOFIN-CUENCA Loan Agreement would be conditions of effectiveness
for the proposed Bank Loan (Sections 7.01(d) and (f) of the draft Loan
Agreement). A Memorandum of Agreement would also be entered into between
FOFIN-CUENCA and the Bank, governing the relationship between the two insti-
tutions in the implementation of this project. According to the terms of the
Memorandum, the Bank would (i) supervise the execution of all studies financed
under the project; (ii) advise FOFIN-CUENCA of its approval of expenditures
incurred under studies financed by FOFIN-CUENCA, so that the latter can make
payments directly to the consultants; and (iii) maintain records of all
payments made by FOFIN-CUENCA, on the basis of information supplied by them
(Part B.6 of the draft Memorandum of Agreement).
44.       The following table provides a summary of the financial plan for the
project:



- 15 -
(US$ Millions)
FOFIN-
Government    Bank   CUENCA   UNDP  Total
Subloans for preinvestment
studies                              3           4      3               10
Subloans for pre-feasibility
studies                              1           1                       2
Technical assistance for
preinvestment work and
Financial Programming Unit                                          1       1
TOTAL                               4           5      3         1     13
On-lending Arrangements and Financial Position of FP
45.       Project beneficiaries would be public s,ector agencies.  The 6%
on-lending rate to be borne by FP subloans is designed .to encourage use of
preinvestment resources while, at the same time, helping to establish a
sufficient degree of financial independence for FP/ONP activities. This rate,
which compares with a weighted average cost of sources of funds (including
the FP/Government and UNDP's contributions for which there are no financial
charges) for subloans of less than 5% and for project activities as a whole
of some 4%, is nonetheless lower than the 13% being charged in nominal terms
for lending to directly productive activities in the agricultural and indus-
trial sectors under ongoing Bank-supported projects. As inflation in Paraguay
in 1978 was about 13%, this implies a real negative rate of interest. Since,
however, the rate of interest for FP subloans is not meant to perform at
present an allocative role and there is still a need to promote the use of
financing for preinvestment activities, the 6% rate is considered acceptable.
Of this 6% rate, 3% would stay with FP to help build up its capital base, 1%
to help finance FP's administrative expenditures and 2% to supplement ONP's
salaries.
46.       The FP will have at its disposal the following resources:  (a) the
proceeds of the proposed loans from FOFIN-CUENCA and the Bank; (b) the rollover
funds available to FP; (c) the net revenue accruiLng from the difference between
its earnings on subloans and its operating expendlitures; and (d) funds made
available in the future by the Government and external sources. Assurances
have been obtained from the Government that it would supplement FP's own
resources in case these are insufficient to cover the US$4 million local
contribution required for the project. These Government contributions, made
through budgetary allocations, would be in the form of non-reimbursable funds.
The decision as to whether Government support is needed would be made prior to
the beginning of each FP's fiscal year, on the basis of FP's yearly work programs
and financial projections (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
funds made available under the previous Credit (587-PA) were provided to FP
as permanent resources. The funds from the proposed Loan, as well as those
provided to FP by FOFIN-CUENCA would also be made available to FP on a non-
reimbursable basis (Section 4.01 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement). This is
the practice that has been followed in the case of the preinvestment funds in
other countries with which the Bank has been associated. The counterpart
funds generated through the repayments of the subloans would remain within FP



- 16 -
and would continue to be used for the purposes of the Loan. The proposed
arrangements would enable FP to build up its working capital up to the mid-80s,
and permit it to sustain a turnover of about US$4 million per year thereafter
with no further capital contributions.
47.       The subloans made by FP would finance up to 100% of the cost of
studies and would have a maximum term of seven years, including two years of
grace (Section 2.03 of the draft Project Agreement). These terms are reason-
able and in consonance with similar financing for pre-feasibility work in
other countries where the Bank has associated itself with these types of
projects. FP, by quoting its subloans in local currency, has insulated its
borrowers from foreign exchange risks. For the external contributions for
this operation, the Government would bear the exchange risk. A Subsidiary
Agreement, defining the relationship between the Government and FP (in parti-
cular the transfer of funds), would be signed as a condition of Loan effective-
ness (Section 7.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Monitoring
48.       The Government would furnish to, and exchange views with, the Bank
on the yearly work programs for FP/ONP, including their costs and financing
arrangements, as well as the results of actual execution of these programs
(Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). To the extent possible, the Bank
and ONP will develop cost effectiveness targets out of these reviews. In
any event, because of ONP's heavy promotional role, uncertainties regarding
how quickly ONP can disassociate itself from assisting in preparing terms
of references, etc., these tests of financial and operational performance
will have to be mostly tailored to FP/ONP's experience and programs.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       The project's studies would be selected on the basis of the country's
economic priorities, as embodied in FP/ONP's yearly work programs, and which
would be prepared in close consultation with the relevant agencies concerned
with planning: National Economic Coordination Council, STP and Financial
Programming Unit. The FP would submit all proposed subloans to the Bank for
approval, with the exception that subloans of less than US$200,000 (up to an
aggregate of US$1.6 million for these subloans) would not require prior
approval. The submissions would be made at the various stages of the study
cycle, and would include, as applicable, the subject of study, the estimated
cost and the terms of reference for the study, the draft subloan agreement
between FP and the borrower, the short list of consultants invited to make
proposals, the name of the consultants finally selected, the rationale for
their selection, and the draft contract between the borrower and consultants
(Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). The short list of consultants
that ONP would draw up for each study proposal would normally include an
international representation of three to five firms, with capability in the
particular field. Contracts for studies financed under the project would be
awarded to consultants from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland, in
accordance with the provisions contained in FP's Regulations. Assurances have
been obtained from the Government that it would arrange funding from sources
other than FP of study proposals that are not eligible for financing under the
external contributions but that have been approved by FP (Section 4.11 of the



- 17 -
Loan Agreement). In case equipment is financed with Bank funds, procurement
would be made on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures, in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. However, contracts of less than
US$100,000 (up to acumulative amount of US$1.0 million for these contracts)
would be awarded on the basis of limited international tendering procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed (i) with FOFIN-CUENCA,
for 70% of the cost of each preinvestment study; and (ii) for 50% of the cost
of each pre-feasibility study. Disbursements are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1984 (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The strengthening of the preinvestment process and the establishment
of the Financial Programming Unit would help increase the number of well-
prepared high priority projects in the public sector. This, in turn, will
encourage better resource allocation, improved budgeting and effective coordi-
nation of external financial assistance. All of these combined would contribute
to maximize the benefits derived from the public investment effort. Although
it would appear that these benefits would be substantial, it is not possible
to quantify them in a sufficiently precise manner to compute a meaningful rate
of economic return. However, experience with other projects has shown that
substantial gains or savings can be realized (e.g., by avoiding over-investments
or cost overruns) by undertaking suitable feasibility studies or detailed
engineering studies.
52.       There are no special risks in the proposed project beyond that
normally associated with securing first rate experts in the preinvestment
field. The presence of experts should help strengthen the capacity of ONP
and key implementing agencies to prepare projects. The risks involved in the
recruitment of suitable experts would be minimized by the appointment of these
by the Bank, acting as the executing agency for UNDP. The Financial Program-
ming Unit should help streamline the preinvestment process and overcome past
problems. The main risk is the degree of support that the project and its
objectives would have among the Government agencies. However, the establish-
ment of the high level Council for FP and the decision to set up the Financial
Programming Unit in the Ministry of Finance have signaled the Government's
commitment to support and streamline the preinvestment process, which should
help improve acceptance of FP's activities among public sector agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Central Bank (for the
Preinvestment Fund), the draft Memorandum of Agreement between FOFIN-CUENCA
and the Bank, and the Report and Recommendations of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
54.       Special conditions of the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. The following are the special conditions of effectiveness:
(a) that the Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and
the Central Bank has been signed;
(b) that the Loan Agreement between FOFIN-CUENCA and Paraguay has
been declared effective, and that the UNDP Project Docuiment
for the technical assistance component has been signed;
(c) that the Financial Programming Unit has been established; and
(d) that the head of ONP has replaced the head of STP in FP's
Management Committee.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approved the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 20, 1979
Attachments



- 19 -                                                             ANNEX I
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REeRENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AyjRACRs
LAND AREA (THOUSEND SQ.  G.)ARAAY                                            - MOST RECENt ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            406.8                                                   SAME        SAME     SEXT RIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     161.4                                XQSTI RECENT     GECGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GN  PE9R CAPITA (US4)                230.0       360.0    850.0            1124.4     1097.7      1942.6
ENERGY CONSUN?TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      87.0       140.0      189.0           943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.8         2.3       2.8
URBAW  POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6       37.1      37.9             59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION 7N YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         9.0
TEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. M!.                        4.0         6.0       7.0             23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. CK. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0        15.0       17.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULAT7ON AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.0        46.1      44.6             40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 nRS.                         51.0        50.7      52.0             54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2       3.4              3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION CROVTH RATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                              2.6 /h      2.6 /h    2.9              2.4        2.4         1.7
U13AN                              2.7         3.0       3.3              3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE 3IRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0        41.0       39.0            32.3       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.0         9.0        9.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       2.8              2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..      26.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..      16.0             17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRItION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.1       103.0     110.0             99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPtTA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RMQUIREMENTS)                  112.0       121.0     118.0            107.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          76.0        74.0      74.5             60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0 /1     41.0      38.9             28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RAn      16.0        10.0       8.0              6.7        8.6         5.1
KEALTH
LIFE  XPECTANCY AT BIRH (EARS)    54.4          61.0      63.0             63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *-        64.0        ..             76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              6.0        11.0      13.0             63.4       60.8        69.4
URSBA                               ..        22.0      25.0             79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..         5.0       5.0             38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0      10.0             58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        16.0      28.0             77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             24.5       Z2.5        33.2
POPULATlON PER PHYSICIAN          2300.0      2340.0/5  1190.0           1841.9     2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2310.0   2250.0             933.7     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                            430.0       620.0    610.0/&           563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                               ..       240.0        ..            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..      5830.0        ..           1140.9     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5/f         -        5               5.0        5.3         4.7
URBAN                              5.37f        ..       5.1              4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                              5.77?         ..      5.a/g            5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUE18ER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6/f        ..       2..              1.3        1.9         I
URBAY                              2.67f        ..        1.7             1.3        i.6         4.2
WRAL                                ..          ..       3.1              1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS to -LEC-RICOTY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             13.0/f        ..       17.             54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                             33.27?         ..     41.,             80.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                              1.27                   1.2J           14.2       17.3



- 20 -                                                                  N I
-20-                                              ~~~~~~~ANNEX_I
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                 REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A7ERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SAKE     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    lICOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE ib       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                98.0        109.0     106.0            107.3      102.5        101.7
MALE                105.0        115.0     110.0            109.1      108.6       110.0
FEMALE               90.0        104.0     102.0            107.4       97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0        17.0      2C.0             40.5       33.5         51.2
KALE                 11.0         17.0      20.0            40.4        38.4        56.4
FEMALE               11.0         17.0      20.0            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (E OF SECONDARY)   7.0          6.0       5.0             18.5       11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACRER RATIO
PRIMARY                           28.0         32.0      28.0             37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                          8.0          9.0      10.0             17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        75.0/f      79.0      80.0             77.4       64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATIOh                         2.0          7.0       7.0             29.1       13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        83.0         71.0      68.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..        20.0      20.0             67.9       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        44.0      37.0             76.1       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..         ..             4.2        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       590.0       700.0     844.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  21.7         21.4      22.5             21.5       25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0        53.0      51.0             30.2       43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.0         19.2      19.0            23.8        21.3        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5        31.7      31.9             30.9       33.5         33.8
MALE                                 51.7        50.0      49.6             47.3       48.0         51.3
FEtALE                               13.9        13.5      14.3             13.3       16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.6       1.5              1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        30.0        *              23.7       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         62.0        ..             58.7       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         4.0        ..              2.9        3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..        ..              9.9       12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            265.6      270.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..            185.1      183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     230.0           396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..                 230.0           308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            35.2        20.5           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..            46.6        35.3
.Not available
Nor applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for esach indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and che most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is roc uniform.
;b         Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent satliate, between 1974 and 1977.
!c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per capita, 1976);  ,e  Upper
Middle Income (51136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1962; a   1972;  /h  Due to emigration of Paraguayans to
neignboring zountrtes (Argentina and Brazil), population growth rate Is lower than rare of natural increase;
,'i  1961-63;  /f  Coverage of data unknown.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-21 -                                                                            ANNX I
DSIRITIONS OF 8OCIAL MICATOSP
Notes: AlthoUgh the data  -r  draso fro  four.es generally judged the m-et authoritative and reliable, it sob-ld &Uo be noted,that they My not be interna-
tionally coeparable because of the lack of standardized definition, and concepts used by different coutntries in collecting the data. The data are, nonetheless.,
useful to drooribe orders of egnitude, indic.at  trends, and oharaoterise certain major differences between ontrie..
The adlusted group n-erge  for each indicator are population-weighted geometric meane, eacluding the eatrem  value  of the indicator and the most popuated
coutry in each grouP. DUe to lack of dntn, grop averages of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil Enqortsrs end of indicaItors of Access to Water and tnoreta
Disposal, tous irg, moon  Distribution and Povrty for other coutry groupe er  pp0lation-wighted ge-trio men  withoot encusion of the entree value  and
the cost populated coutry.  Since the  overege of countries among the indicators  epends onaalabilit  of data and is not unifom. osutioc must be exercised
to relating aveags of one indicator to another   These  -avrae. ere mostly usefu  asa          lon tons ofrepce"  auswe  coeparing the Values of one
indicator at a tin  amog the coutry and reference groups.
LAiNS AME  (thou.nsd sq.M.(                                                              Aoen  t   sorta Diee   (pren   fscsWt!o)-Ota,ob,anKua 
ToLtal- Total  -ufaoe are  coprising lend ares and inland waters.                         Is`ebtr'of people(9total  urban  en   ur    sre  by snorts distposala
AgrIc.ultural -  Mant recent estiaste of agricultural area used temporarily              percentages of their respecti-e populations. ftcreta disposal say include
or permacetly for crop,, p.aturos, oskht and kitchen gardens or to                     the collection and disposal, with or citbout tret-et, of huma  -urte
lieIf.uli.                                                                             and waste-eater by water-born   ystem   or the use of pit privies and s-ilar
GOP  ER  APiT  (2d)   iHPpercapta etbatoccc crret mrketpries,     Pocointios per P5o'sician - Population divided by number of Doraticing physicians
calcuated  yun  coveocnthod an World HUan  Atlas (1976-78 basis)                          ulfe   rmamdcl  cola   nvriylvi
10,17,ed 1978 data.                                                            Ponulatlon pr NrigPerson - Population divided by number of practicing main
ENEBOY CIHUIsION PER CAPITA - Annual o-option of  -onneoll energy                          an eaegaute nurss, practicalnrses, and assiotantnos.
(ca   ndlgit,ptrlu,natural gas nod hydro-, auolear end gec-                      cHnia                       ie  - total. oe,and rura  - PopultIon  (total, urben,
thermalcictriciy   nklgaoo   oleuvaetprcpt;16                                            n   ua    pdivdd by their respective sombr of hospi tal beds avilable in
1970, end 1976 data,                                                                     public sad private general enO speiulicod hoipital end rehabkilitmtito. enes
Hospitals are .ostbliihenta peressently staffed by at leant coo physician.
POPUIATION ADii VffAL STATIiTICD                                                           Entablishneata prosiding principally o-ntoddal cnare arnot included. Rural2
Total Poppltioc. Mid-YSIr knilliono( - Ao of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                     hoapitalo, however, include health end codical centers not perasnetly staffed
1977 data,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~by a phy.siian (but by andical assistant, nurse, aldaife, et.) ahInt offer
Urban Pouaion (pcr-et of total) - Rstic of orkan to tonal populatiu;                     in-patient aoumodatios and provids a llintad range of nedical facilatieo,
difr definitio-  of-rban arena any offoci coeparability of data                Admissions per HoslPItal Bed - Total sunhr of adninstos to or disoIhergec from
amngconres; i960, 1970, and 1975 dtna.                                             ho.ptalapdivided b7theousdber of beds.
Puoulat ion Pro., cottoos
pbpulation it year 200  - furreot population proJeotiocs are beaed on             HOUSINGA
1975 total popoition by age and sec end their atalitty and fertility              Avrgadc   fosholId (persona per household) - total, urban  and rura  -
rates. Pro.'_tion p-ramtern for mortality pates c-prico of tires                    AHoshl   ossoo      ru   fidiiui   h   hr  iigqatr   n
lbosh  -ooing life eupoctancy at birth inor--ing sith cutry,a                       their maIn coal. A boarder or lodger ey or na  not ho included in tin
per capita 100000 leve, and female life I.eyotamy utbilli nin        t               household for sttlotio.1 purponen
,775 yecru.  The parmeer   P o  frt ility rate alec have thron level              Avorae number of peruco  per coon - total    ban, and rura  - Aierage cunb-r
aucumiug d-oline in fertility ecoordong to io--n  level and past                     of persons Por rOiin all uriet, and rurl  ucpied oce dt-cl  clitugo,
faml   lnino porfoenoc  Eahoutry to tics assigned one of tbece                       rep_eti_ely.  Ne.I  ng. ec]udmoos.-pc  tm ot-uture  and unoccpied parts.
nine cobinations of iotaiy and fertIlity trends for proj-otion                    Acce.Ss to ileotridftl  (psroet of dwellings)    ota,t u,trban  end rura  -  CIo-
purposes.                                                      ve~~~~~~~~~ntin.ni dweling,. ciielectricity In liin  qurter  no perentago of
SZtati-r  pouaio         In n ottio-sry population there I.n.s groom                   toa,uban  andcre  duelligs repectively.
si;nc tic birth rat e is squal to the douth rate, end also lbs age
struturereanino ~o-otant. Thin~ iu nohieved  niy after fertility rates          EDUCATIONH
deolior to the roplaconet 1o-e  of unit set repr-dation rate, cies                Adjusted E.rllnnt Rtion
esoh generation of u-an repl-aco  itself eoatly.  The stationary pope-               Primary schoor oa,ml and fecale -Grioc total, male end female euro-
ifntPo Ice ens catlented on tie bmum   of tie projectod oharactrioti-s                 meat of al   gesath  prisa-y leve  a  peroontagee of repective priasry
oftie  poplatioc is tic year 2000, and the r-ic of decline of fortility              n-h-l-ago popoai...oe; norcly isoludoasohildrco aged 6-11 yearo but
rate to replace,net lev.adjusted foe differet lengths of primary oducation; for  -nutriec sith
Yea atattoonr  cpuPJlaioni-      coe   - Tho pea  ohe  utetti-ry population              unorn         ct-ocrlosn           Wa ....eed 100 per-ct  ior- 50cr puPils
cioc hasbee  reached                                                                   are below or abe  ti   ffIil "oolage
Popultioi Denoity                                                                        eodrysho    total, male adfemale - C-oputed nsie; oeonodnry
Per sq. to. - Mid-pea  population per squr .Ikilooite (IGO h-ctaren) of                  education ro   te ci.loat four yearn  f approved pnolnep o-trut-on;
total arape-ide- general v-otio..nl, or toohec teaming  inntroetiono for popils
Per no. lot.gioultural lan   - CoepotId no aboc for agri-ulturl lend                     ucallyof12to  f  ers of age; o.rrc-poudvcneouru   toe   o_erlly
only.                                                                                   -uciudod.
Population Age Str...ure (erocnt) - Childe-n (0-i1yan,4           otn-g                  Vocational esrulnenet (peroent of ucond-r_) - Vonationl ti,tt;tutsooo inlsuc
(i5-64, Yeara:, en  retiee   (5 year  and over) no perentneo of mid-year                teohnio-1, induatrial, or other progr-c  shiot operato  odepeod-only or aso
population; Ipo, 0970, ad1977 dam.                                                       departnntn of scondary isntltutions.
Popuation Gr-thi date (percet) - total - Anau- --1grooth ratec of total mid-             Pupil-teacher ratio -_ priaryIeand ue...darp -           Ioa   tuei    'I'd i
yea   ouains for 1950-ho0, 17010-70, and 19170-77.                                       prima~ry end  -eeo,dary lovel  diMdidcb  -paber-tof teachers to the,  -ere-
Ponulation Orosbh Onto (-eroent)' -~ ubh    - A.nugs.. couc   rates of urban               spondiag I.le-a
populations f r 1950-hO, 170-70, nod 197-75.                               Adult lieracy rte  pret   Lsterate adults (silo  to rend and  rnitc  n
C rodo Birth OsneI c  thonuand( -A.nnu1 live birthn  per thousad of mid-                   ap-eroetageof total adult popusinto  aged 15 Ycnn and over.
poar population; 1 0, 1970, end 19~77 data.
Crude tenth Onto (prtosn) - Annual dentin pop thor-ad of mid-peso                    CONDo10CIOR
Opopulation; i9iu, 1970, and 197dtt                                                   Paco- a-  -n- (pcr snhosand rpulstioon-  sdecr  as-up-o  out-ror
_roo tpeodu_tios Rate  -Aenenube  of d-ughter  a oa   ill bea                           oeating lens the  eight percuss;I ecldos  mbulenoe, hoarao and cilitari
in her normal  eprod-etiee priod if  hoe eup-rivoIv  prent oge-                      ochioles.
up_cific fertility  m.Ien; ucually fie-pyar ne-sreg-s endiog in 1960,               Rdo..i              prthousand  o piatnon..    All oyppe  of reeoe-  for m-dio
i970, and 1975.                                                                       broadonots to genee   pulic per thousand of population; eolude- uni-oud
Panily Panning -Aooeptoca,J A.na  (nioth-sods)i- Anoi nunhe  of                     r-e.ee.aI...u.te-e  end in p-ear  uh   rrglote-tion of 'Il,otou -tcou
noeeptorsof biribounivol  oeloc  uder nuapee  fs nationsI fenily               effeot; data. for r--ct yonra nay not ho-. o ..nrbi s,LIc  a,t  _outrieu
pianciog pror..                                                                        ai.cblished liocoin.
_amlr Planni ng E  sr  torc  of nurried  -oo) -Pvrcetngc of caried                    fTV  e-i-er  (per thouand population) - TVro--ivrn  for iro-dot no 9_uera
wom en of child-bearin  age (151b7par)  ho our biti-cot-oI d-eioe                      public per thousad populatiut; eoldouniose   teeieicuti
no all marrieId 0000 n  caneg  grop,                                                   end is yeaso  hien egintr-tioc of TV .tot  ass ineffeot
P201 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    8~~~~~~~N- -u   Cir.or1.lti-  (p- thousand  tuiacio   (- Shuns thin uvrago  iro-ltion
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~f "daily g-real tnneret  _esnpnpo,defined no u periodi-i pulintoaton
I.d- of Fnud Production pcr Capita (1969-71=1100  - Indso of per onpit'i                 devoted prienrily Co' reoodiog gener al neon   Itluoonid-red to heduy
annual p-od-otion of all food -oanditien. Prod-otio-c-1ude- .cc. and                   if it  Pspears at least fou  times asee.
feed.and  n on onleadar pyar baiu.  Counditue- curr poi-ay good.ts                   Cinema Annual Atteodanoc per Capitn no    Boa       sIhtd cctieouio  of tite
(g.sgernei ed of  ugar) uhioh tee eible and  ..oatnb  nutrie.nto                  sid~ durig thie yenr, ino1udino ndnioi... to drIr-ic   seasnod unh"Ie
(e.g. codffe  sa..d ton arc -oolued). ASgrogti  production ofeob sry                  ut.
Isbmod_   netio... Iaverage produoer pri-c -ightu.
Per onita supply of-oaoioo (p-roct of re irectn( - Computed from                   I.,BORPOCh
e.nergy equie-lot of net food nupplie  noiaheincutry Pee o-pita                   Total labor Puree (tho-ssuds) - E-o-moolly notove personn,  -coldiod treed
Per dp.  do-ilablc  -ppli- e -copri- do-etlo prod-otino, ipo-t  Ieo                  foroec med un-pioped lot e            h--igoocirro, ut-oto, Itcc. loflito-o
copurts, and ohages In stool.  Bet uPppliI:cu-lude anc    ed   cd,                   in various  -outroe  arc not -oeparubI-
quailtIne~ use  Lu food proeiog, me d lose .in dstib.iitio.   qoie-                 ZTlyp}   ... ptcen t(   - lfea   lance, Coro-.n  poeretage oI total lahr forc...
oencueeeticatod by Phi bned on pu.ioigi-al nredu for .o-Ine                   )gll.oj.5r~              - Labo  foc  iv fariog, forestry, hunting and
coieo   ad  elth conoider..g oni- nents1 teopersture, body ceoghto,           fishing as percentage of total Ib-o fooce.
age nod-c   iutr ibution s of populat-r, and allo-ing it percent for              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, o-totroioo, oof-oturing vol
a                  uso~~~~~~~te at houshold Icsl                                                        clcrt,ut-r and gs-a ps-tentge of total labor forc.
Pe  nossply of protein (gr-n  per day) - Protcin ountect of hr              Particcatio   Rate (ocoot: -tt _l.male. and female- P-t-oipation o
o-pita. net vupply of food Pee da. Bet spply of food in deli-rd so                   atioity eaten are on puted no tntal, male, and femole lube forc  as per-
aJoe. Reqoirementn for nil coutriot established by USDA per-ide for a                 etog-n of total, mole and femal  population of oil ngeu  epctlecly;
cinienm  alluu-c  of 60 gr-n  of otntl protein Per day and 20 gr-n  of               ilyi, '1970, and 19.75 da'sn.  These n-e IOlo partocipution -tea reflecting
anonal and pulse  rotoin, of uhlen  0 7gr5  should hotniai -Iprotein.      nge-ssntr-turee~foth  popuintion, and Iong toetrend.  A fes estimates
Itco   candrds ar  loser than those of -7 ron f ttal Peunein and                    nre from notional  --u-e
1 rc  of animal protein usso-rngo foe tin soId, propo,od bip PAO               pouin Decedenoy Patio  -  Rato of populatioc   nde- i  and 05 -di 00c  t0
2ogo                     O -tie ThinrWorl P -o uvy.tnlbrf                                                ago group of i5-6b yecro
Per -pcits protein -upply fro anicai nod pulse - Prot mm aupply of food
dcrived fro   nml  adple.i   rn   e  dy.                                        fINCOME DISThRUTION
Child (ages 1-I) Mrtly I    R'to  nrthousand) - icnl 1destho pop thousand              Peroelat otf PRivate Inoome. .ltoni Ishos and kind)- R.-oi-od. by riohost
in nge gecup 1-i yearn, to childenr In thu~ ng  group  for nost dovel-                 5 prnet, riobhat 20 PeIoen,poret 20 Percent,  nd Po.r-ut 4C peroant
ping  --tnri-s Oats de-i-d Coon life tnhIc-                                            of househo1do.
HEALTH0                                                                                POVERTY TARGET GPOUPS
Life Iopotany at Birth (po--n  - A,enge nber of yeas of life                           EsItimtd Absolute P-erty Ioone level (seecpt)-ob   ad rural
roninin  at birth; 1900, 1970, and 1977. data.                                      Absolute poverty iccne level is that income leve   eon -chi   n stoical
Infant M-otality Onto (pee thousand) - An-ua1 deatb  of iCfnot  undor one                uutritIoally adesunte diet pl-.s enetin1 nun-food roqirenesi  iono.t
Y.-r of eg  pcr tiho-ani lIve biotto.                                                  affordable
Aoeoto Safe Waer (Percet of population  -oa,ura,ad cr-al -                             E.intIated OnlatiVe Poet  io         evl(m   per capita) - urban and rural
Noeber of people  ttl  ubn       rn nei   ih reas..ahlc aceec  to                      Oua   catv    oety incom  level In ore-third of aecrge per capita
I'felaIcruo pply (i-olud- trstod nufa-  untarn or unCreted but                         personal in-uce of the coutry. Urban lene 1In dented fine the rural level
ucooentiouted -te-  -ho so thot Cfeon protected b.horoo-, upriogs,                     dit  adjostaet foe higher cos t of living in urban arean.
and  _aitary weIll) an peroentage- of their respective populations. In               Patimated PopuIatioci Beloo Aboniute PovertyIneom "Iron1  )ere...et  - urban and
a. urban  oec a pulhe founain or  tandpoot 1-utcd non core than              rura  - Pervet of pultIon (uin and r_l)sinar  'aslt ur..
2Ouoters C- ruohouse Imy 'b-cnidered an being within -easenabie
noesof that nov.  I  ual arsun reosonable a-ceu  -nld inPyl
tint theIht-_o Ce or nonbr- of tic bou..chold do not bate to spend a                                                         Pcoaoio and Su-ia1 Data ldiviniu
dinpr-portlonte part of tIe day -r fetching the Cf-ily's watr... neds                                                   C__iom  nAolYoic and Proiectin-  Pepn-tmet
August 1970



- 22 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Asounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual             Est.                    Projected                1970-    1974-    1978-
1974      1977          1§7i           1979      1980      1983          1974     1978      1983          1974    1977    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Constant  1977  Prices                            Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product              1656.5    2092.2        2298.6         2561.0    2848.5    3654.5          6.4      8.5       9.7         102.3   100.0   100.3
Gains from  Terms of Trade (+)       -37.0       -            -21.4         -19.8     -22.0    -11.3                                           -2.3      -      _ .3
Gross Domertic Income               1619.5    2082.2         2277.2        2541.2    2826.5    3643.2          6.5       8.9      9.9          10.O   100.0   100.0
Import (incl.NFS)*                   350.1     683.2         701.5          789.7     879.0    1D82.9          9.8     19.0       9.1          21.6    32.7    29.7
Exports   "  (import capacity)*    -280.6    -444.6          -435.3        -513.6   -590.9    -830.5           1.5     11.6      13.8         -17.3   -21.3  -22.8
Resource Gap                          69.5     238.6          266.2         276.1     288.1      252.5                                          4.3    11.4      6.9
Co-nsmption Expenditures            1366.1    1814.4         1985.8        2187.5   2424.5    3133.5           5.9      9.8       9.5          84.4    86.7    86.0
Investment     " (icl. stocks)      322.9     516.4         557.6          629.8     690.1      762.3        16.8     12.5       6.5          19.9   24.7    20.9
Domestic Savings                     253.4     277.8          291.4         353.7     402.0      509.9        16.7      3.5      11.8           15.6    13.3   14.0
National Savings                     244.5     263.0          283.8         327.7     368.1      452.9        16.7       3.8      9.8          15.1    12.3    12.4
MERCUANDISE TRADE                                      Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
Imports
Food                                14.4      12.7           10.4          10.4      10.8       14.5        23.0    -7.8       6.9            5.6      2.2     1.1
Other cons-m-er goods               33.6      48;1           64.2          76.7      91.9      148.6        24.5      17.6    18.3           13.1      8.4    11.7
Intermediate goods                  32.3      49.9          59.8           73.5      89.1      139.4        14.2     16.6    18.5            12.6     8.7    11.0
Fuels aud lobrtcants                41.9      42.6          47.1           57.4      67.9       96.5        61.2      3.0    15.4            16.4      7.5     7.6
Capital goods                       49.2     102.2         123.3          150.0     175.9      234.9        28.2     25.8    13.8            19.2    17.9    18.4
Unregistered imports                84.7     316.6         309.8          372.2    439.7       639.6        61.0     38.2    15.6            33.1    55.4    50.2
Total merchandise imports          256.1     572.0         614.6          740.2     875.3    1273,5         35.2     24.4    15.7           100.0   100.0   100.0
Exports
Wood                                24.7      19.9           19.5          22.7      29.1       53.6         18.6    -5.8    22.3             12.0     5.0     5.0
Beef                                40.5      28.1           25.8          34.6      40.5      56.7       . 22.6   -10.7    17.1             19.7      7.0     5.2
Soybeans                            20.4      58.8          41.5           61.5      72.8      141.0         90.5    19.4    27.7             9.9    14.6    13.0
Cotton                              16.5      80.5          105.7         137.6     180.2      313.1         42.3    59.1    24.2             8.0    20.0    28.9
Other conseodities                  67.7      91.6         101.4          110.8     136.7      219.8         24.5    10.6    16.7            32.9    22.8   20.3
Unregistered exports                36.1     123.0          118.3         148.2     181.5      297.8        133.0    34.0    20.2            17.5    30.6    27.5
Total merchandise exports (fob)   205.9      401.9         412.2          523.4     642.7    1082.1          33.2    19.0    21.3           100.0   100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                                   Average 1977  -  100
Export Price Index                  76.2     100.0         101.2          109.1     116.0      141.4                   7.4     6.9
Import Price Index                  88.3     100.0         106.2          113.3     120.3      143.3                   3.8     6.2
Terms of Trade Index                86.3     100.0          95.3           96.3      96.4      98.7
Expor-t Volu-e Inden                51.2     100.0          102.6         130.2     159.9      269.2
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                      Annual Data at 1977 Prices and Exchange Rates                    Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                        580.4     713.7          777.7         847.7     924.0    1185.6           5.8     7.6      8.8           35.0    34.1    32.4
Industry and Mining                345.7     482.8         495.1          564.4     637.8      818.1          8.4     9.4    10.6            20.9    23.1    22.4
Services                           730.4     895.7         1025.8        1148.9    1286.7    1651.0           6.0      8.9     9.9           44.1    42.8   45.2
Total                             1656.5    2092.2        2298.6         2561.0    2848.5    3654.5           6.4     8.5      9.7          100.0   100.0   100.0
ActualE            Est.                    Projected                                                 As Percent of GDP
PUBLIC FINANCE (Current Prices)      1974      1977          1978           1979      1980       1983
(Central Administration)
Current Receipts                   128.4     209.4          261.9         291.0     343.3      524.6                                          9.6    50.0    10.0
Current Expenditures               103.0     148.4          174.6         216.4     251.3      365.9                                          7.7      7.1     7.0
Budgetary Savings                   25.4      61.0           87.3          74.6      92.0      138.7                                           1.9     2.9     3.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                                 DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                  1979-83
(As % Total Ctrrent Expend.)                                                                                INVESTMENT PROGRAM             US$ aillions      7 of Total
Goods and Services                    22.7      22.6           21.5          22.5                 25.0      Infrastructure                    589.5             33.2
Wages and Salaries                    43.2      45.6           43.3          46.0                 48.0      Productive Sectors                 750.2            42.3
Transfer Payments                     19.6      24.5           22.7          23.0                 17.0      Social Sectors                     270.4            15.3
Other                                 14.5       7.3           12.4           8.5                 10.0      General Services                   162.9             9.2
Total Current Expenditures           100.0     100.0          100.0         100.0                100.0      Total Expenditure                 1773.0           100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                      1974-78                  1978-83                                   FINANCING
Average ICOR                             2.6                      2.5                                       Public Sector Savings           1006.3            56.7
Import Elasticity                        2.2                      1.0                                       External Financing              766.7             43.3
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate           0.06                     0.16                                      Internal Borrowing                 -               -
Marginal National Savings Rate           0.07                     0.12                                      Total Financing                 1773.0           100.0
LABR FORCE AND                                         Economically Active Population                                                  Employment Shares
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                               I  Proj.        1962-74        1974-76       1976-80                   (in percentages)
1962      1974      1976       1980      Growth Rate   Growth Rate   Growth Rate        1962      1974      1976       1980
Agriculture                        321,333   425,633   451,554   514,170          2.4            3.0           2.6           56.1      52.1       52.4      53.0
Industry                           107,588   162,974   168,474   193,461          3.5            1.6           3.8           18.8      20.0       20.5      22.0
Services                           143.966   227.617   242,884   26&.44           3.9            3.3           2.6           25.1      27.9       27.1      25.0
Total                              572,887   816,224   862,912   97S,715          3.0            2.8           3.2          100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
* Includes unregistered merchandise.
I Includes financial in-estmest in agriculture and industry.
.not applicable                                e  staff estimate
sot available                                  - nil or negligible
not available separately                      --  less than half the
but included in total                             smallest unit shown



- 23 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actral                         Estimated                        Proiected
1974          1976           1977                T               1979          1980           1983
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (inl. NFS)                238.8          287.6          444.6             462.4             582.2          711.4        1191.0
Importe (incl. NFS)               309.1          459.6          683.2             745.2             895.2         1058.2        1533.0
Resource Balance (X-M)             -70.3        -172.0         -238.6            -282.8            -313.0         -346.8        -362.0
Net Factor Payments                -12.7         -15.1          -15.6             -32.2             -34.0          -45.7          -88.3.
Currezit Transfers (net)             6.9          24.2           23.1               4.0               4.4            4.8            6.4
Balance on Current Accounts        -76.1        -162.9         -231.1            -311.0            -342.5         -387.7         -444.0
Private Medium and
Long Term Capital                53.7                          75.0              86.3              99,2         114.1          158.7
Net Capital from Binational
Entities                          1.5                         149.0             240.0             180.0         200.0           85.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                    24.7           58.7          106.6             133.3             129,3          147.9          296.9
-Repayments                       10.5           11.7           16.1              52.5             46,9          141.4          230.5
Net Disbursements                   14.2          47.0           90.5              80.8              82.4          126,3           66.4
Short Term Capital Flows
and Errors and Omissions         47.7           18.0           25.5              34.0               -              -              -
Change in Net Reserves            -41.0          -5D.1         -108.9            -130.0             -19.1          -32.9         -30.3
(- = increase)
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                         DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                            1974          1976           1977
Official Grants & Grant-like                                                     Public Debt Out. & Disbursed                     149.3         221.5          317.1
Public M&LT Loans                                                                  Interest on Public Debt                          5.5            7.3          10.0
IBRD                             24.5           12.0           38.0              Repayments on Public Debt                      10.5           11.8           16.1
IDA                              11.0            4.0            -                Total Public Debt Service -                    16.0           19.1           26.1
IDB                              11.5            2.3           11.0
Governments                       6.6           11.0           17.0            Burden on Export Earrings (%)
Suppliers                        16.3           10.1           13.4              Public Debt Service                              6.7           6.6            5.9
Financial Institutions           27.0            3.7           16.0
Total Public M&LT Loans            96.9           43.1           95.4            Term Structure of Public Debt Commitments
Average Interest (C)                            6.1            6.5            6.8
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1977           Average Maturity (years)                        23.1           18.4           16.7
EXTERNAL DEBT                   Disbursed only                   Percent             Average Grace (years)                            4.8            4.2           4.1
World Bank                          28.0                          8.8              Grant Element (7.)                              28.5           23.3          18.9
IDA                                33.8                          10.7
IDB                                21.4                           6.8            IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed                        15.0          21.7           28.0
Governments                       123.3                          38.9                 as % Public Debt: O&D                       10.0             9.8           8.8
Suppliers                          28.4                           8.9                 as % Public Debt Service                     9.3           10.8            9.7
Financial Institutions             82.1                          25.9
Total Public H&LT Debt               317.0                        100.0            IDA Debt Out. & Disbljrsed                        25.5           28.7          33.8
as % Public Debt O&D                         17.1           12.9           10.7
as 7. Public Debt Service                     1.9            2.1            1.6
.not applicable                             e  staff estimate
not available                               - nil or negligible
...  not available separately                   --  less than half the
but included in total                          smallest unit shown



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (September 30, 1979)
--    (US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower         Purpose                Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Six loans and four credits fully disbursed                    21.8   25.7 1/        -
347           1972    Paraguay   Secondary Education            -    5.1        0.1
1037           1974    Paraguay   Livestock IV                10.0       -       0.3
509           1974    Paraguay   Small Farmer Credit and
Rural Development           -   11.0        2.4
1059           1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                 14.5       -       2.7
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies'         -    4.0        3.4
1252           1976    Paraguay   Vocational Training          4.0       -       1.3
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education              8.0       -       8.0
667           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education                -    4.0        1.6
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II        22.0       -      20.0
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit           10.0       -       5.8
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply           6.0       -       5.8
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                  33.0       -      32.0
1674 2/        1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development             25.0       -       25.0
1736 3/        1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                 39.0       -      39.0
Total (net of cancellations)                  193.3   49.8
of which has been repaid                      8.6    1.0
Total now outstanding                         184.7   48.8
Amount sold                        1.3
of which has been repaid         0.3          1.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    183.7   48.8
Total undisbursed                                               147.4
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Loan was declared effective November 20, 1979.
3/   Approved by the Executive Directors on June 21, 1979; loan signed on July
13, 1979 but is not effective yet.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - September 30, 1979
Type of                   (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor              Business                  Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.       Wood Processing                 4.4       1.0      5.4
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                           4.4       1.0       5.4
Total undisbursed                                 _          -        _



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 347-PA First Education Project, US$5.1 million, December 22, 1972;
(Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979).
Project implementation is proceeding in a satisfactory manner.
Of the nine project institutions, seven are completed and the remaining two
are almost completed. All completed schools are fully equipped and furnished,
and the equipment for the remaining two schools is being purchased. Imple-
mentation of the technical assistance component was satisfactorily completed
in 1978. Total project cost is expected to exceed the appraisal estimate
by about 16%, but no difficulty in provision of the required counterpart funds
is foreseen. The whole project is expected to be completed by the original
closing date of December 31, 1979.
Loan 1037-PA   Fourth Livestock Project, US$10.0 million, September 6, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 21, 1975; Closing Date:
August 31, 1979).
Disbursements of the loan proceeds have been in line with
appraisal projections, but project induced production, productivity increases
and ranchers' income are likely to remain substantially below appraisal expec-
tations due to a prolonged period of unfavorable beef prices and prevalence of
extensive herd and ranch management practices. Over the last year, progress
was made in improving technical services to ranchers and in debt collection
(increasing the recovery rate from 76% in 1976 to 85% in 1977). A part-time
consultant to train the executing agency's staff in project monitoring and
subloan evaluation was recently employed; to permit making final payments to
this consultant, the loan's closing date has been extended from February 28,
1979 to August 31, 1979. Other final disbursements for subloans are now being
made.
Credit 509-PA  Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project, US$11.0
million, September 6, 1974; (Date of Effectiveness: April 14,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
The project credit component is proceeding satisfactorily with
medium- and long-term lending in line with appraisal estimates. Lending of
short-term funds, after the transfer of US$1,000,000 from Category 4 (short
term) to Category 3 (medium and long term) of Schedule 1 of the Credit Agree-
ment is now completed. Land titling also continues to be satisfactory, with
about 2,000 titles distributed. Efforts to help strengthen BNF's Agricultural
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
and Livestock Department are continuing. The 18 schools planned are now
constructed, furnished, staffed and fully operating. The three health centers
constructed under the project have been supplied with medical equipment and
are fully operational; and the three community centers have been built and
have been handed over to the Ministry of Agriculture for administration. Earth
road construction is now 85% completed (40 km) and all-weather road construc-
tion is 22% completed (8 km). The closing date has been extended from
June 30, 1979 until June 30, 1980 to permit completion of pending activities
and finalize disbursements.
Loan 1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978 or about ten months behind schedule; progress of
works on the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) is about 73% against the
scheduled 100%; completion is now scheduled for March 1980--this has required
an extension of the closing date from June 30, 1S979 to June 30, 1980. Delays
were caused by poor management and insufficient equipment; corrective measures
were taken. The consulting firm engaged for assisting in highway maintenance
and for preparing a study on maintenance needs has completed its task. The
latter study was the basis for the subsequent highway loan (Fifth Highway
Project - Loan 1529-PA).
Credit 587-PA  Preinvestment Studies Project, US$'4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980).
Although the entire amount of the credit is now virtually
committed, progress on the institution building side is still slow. The
Government is attempting to simplify the formalities involved in processing
subprojects, and although the execution of the latter is now speedier, this
aspect will require continued attention during the disbursement phase.
Loan 1252-T-PA Vocational Training Project, US$4.0 million, May 13, 1976;
(Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980).
Project implementation is on schedule. Construction of four
of the six institutions has started. The designs for the other two are being
prepared. Furniture contracts for two institutions and all equipment contracts
have been signed. The technical assistance program is satisfactory and running
smoothly. Project cost estimates are within appraisal estimates, so far.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised implementation
schedule the project is expected to he completed by the present closing date



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
of June 30, 1981. About 10 associated rural primary schools are completed.
Construction of 43 new rural primary schools as well as of five lower secon-
dary schools has been contracted. Satisfactory progress has been made in
contracting technical assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook
production and in-service teacher training programs. With regard to total
project cost, at this time no cost overrun is foreseen.
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
Lending under the project has reached US$1,350,000, or about
47% of appraisal estimates. Land titling is also progressing slowly, with 600
titles distributed, or 50% of appraisal estimates. Engineering consultants
for roads and community centers have started work. Engineering for health
centers and posts has started and construction will begin shortly. A new
project coordinator has been appointed, and the deputy project coordinator is
now operating from the project area. Also, the project document for the
supporting UNDP-financed program of technical assistance, for which the Bank
will act as executing agency, has been signed and a chief technical adviser
and an agronomist are already operating in the project area. Cofinancing
arrangements with the Federal Republic of Germany are being finalized.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made
towards meeting this objective, with BNF obtaining operating profits (¢ 155
million in 1977 and 0 159 in 1978) for the first time since 1972. This was
achieved in part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial
spread, and a capital contribution of 0 1.3 billion that the Government made
under the Loan. BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been
sufficiently effective in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the
institutional improvements, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical
assistance program has been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural
programming, portfolio management and electronic data processing systems.
Regarding the financing of industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submit-
ted to the Bank more than 30 subprojects with small-scale enterprises account-
ing for most of them. Disbursements, however, were running somewhat behind
schedule. Since BNF has already met the conditions for releasing the pending
amounts under the Loan's second tranche (US$6.0 million), an additional US$4.0
million has been made available to finance subprojects.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
The project is delayed six months due to longer than forecasted
time to fulfill effectiveness conditions (approval by the Paraguayan Congress
of the Legal Documents and signature of the agreement for technical assistance
between PAHO and SENASA, the executing agency), but implementation is proceeding
at a good pace. Engineering, including bidding documents, for 43% of project
communities, is completed. The condition of disbursement for equipment pur-
chases has been met on the basis of the signing of contracts between SENASA
and 10 communities and the preparation of a satisfactory purchase program.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness:  December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement had been delayed by Govern-
ment legal procedures to approve the cofinancing documents. The Borrower
is contracting the two civil works elements and has initiated execution of
the technical assistance component, and for procurement of road maintenance
equipment.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
This loan was declared effective on November 20, 1979.
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Closing Date: June 30, 1985).
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: About six months
(b) Preparation by: National Projects Office and a UNDP evaluation mission
(February 1979)
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:  September 1978
(d)  First Bank Mission:  February 1979
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  May 1979
(f)  Negotiations:  September-October 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  February 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
The high level Council for the Preinvestment Fund has been estab-
lished.   Standard forms of contract for subloan agreement were reviewed
during negotiations and were found satisfactory to the Bank.
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i)  that the head of the National Projects Office has replaced the
head of the Technical Secretariat for Planning in the Preinvest-
ment Fund's Management Committee (paragraph 27);
(ii) that the Financial Programming Unit has been established in the
Ministry of Finance (paragraph 40);
(iii)  that the Loan Agreement between FOFIN-CUENCA and Paraguay has
been declared effective (paragraph 42);
(iv) that Paraguay has obtained the grant from UNDP for the
technical assistance component (paragraph 42); and
(v)  that the Subsidiary Agreement between the Government
and the Central Bank has been signed (paragraph 47).



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) The Government would provide a global guarantee for all subloans to be
committed under the project (paragraph 28).
(c) The Preinvestment Fund and the National Projects Office would merge by
June 30, 1981 forming a single autonomous institution (paragraph 29).
(d) The funds (from the Government, FOFIN-CUENCA, and the Bank) made
available to the Preinvestment Fund under this project would be sub-
scribed by the Government to the Preinvestment Fund as capital
(paragraph 44).
(e) The Government would fund, at the same terms and conditions as the
corresponding subloans, study proposals that are not eligible for
financing under the external contributions for the project (FOFIN-
CUENCA, and the Bank) (paragraph 49).



ANNEX IV
- 32 -
PARAGUAY - SECOND PREINVESTHENT STUDIES PROJECT
PART I.     STUDIES APPROVED FOR PREINVE:STMENT FUND FINANCING UNDER IDA CREDIT 587-PA
COST L/
(subloan
amounts)
NO.       STUDY NAME           SECTOR           TYPE            BORROWER              STAT1S         INVESTMENT PROJECT          (US$1,000)
1     internal Airports      Transport      Feasibility      Ministry of            Completed              ---                       508
National Defense
2     Coronel Oviedo-        Trauisport     Detailed         Ministry of            Comupleted     Fifth Highway Project             442
San Esranislao Road                   Engineering      Public Works                         (Loan 1529-PA)
3     Third Education        Education      Preparation      Ministry of            Completed      Third Education Project            30
Project                                                Education                             (Loan 1346)
4     Resealing of           Transport      Detailed         Ministry of            Completed      Fifth Highway Project              59
Paraguari-Encarnacion                 Engineering      Public Works                          (Loan 1529-PA)
Road
5     Hydrogeologic Study   Rural Water   Preparation        National               Ongoing                __                        580
Supply                         Environmental
Health Service
6     Itapua Health           Health/Rural Detailed          Ministry of            Ongoing        Second Rural Development           56
Centers                Development   Engineering       Health                               Project (Loan 1418-PA)
7     Itapua Rural Roads    Transport/    Detailed           Ministry of            Ongoing        Second Rural Development
Rural Dev.    Engineering       Public Works                         Project (Loan 1418-PA)            563
8     Tacuara-Santa Rosa    Transport       Detailed         Ministry of            Not started            --                        600
Road                                  Engineering      Public Works
9     Concepcion-yby-yau    Transport       Detailed         Ministry of            Ongoing                ---                       153
Road                                  Engineering      National Defense
10    Itapua Community       Rural          Detailed         Ministry of            Not started   Second RuTsl Development            40
Centers                Development   Engineering       Public Works                         Project (Loan 1418-PA)
11    Pirapo-Route VII       Transport      Feasibility      Ministry of            Completed      Sixth Highway Project              52
Road                                                   Public Works                          (Loan 1736-PA)
12    Mbutuy-Saltos del      Transport      Feasibility      Ministry of            Not started            --                        375
Guaira Road                                            Public Works
13    San Juan Bautista-    Transport       Feasibility      Ministry of            Not started            --                        310
Pilar-Itapiru Road                                     Public Works
14    Asuncion Wholesale    Agricultural  Detailed           Municipality of        Ongoing        Livestock and Agricultural         45
Market                 Marketing      Engineering      Asuncion                             Development Project
(Loan 1674-PA)
15    Third Rural            Rural          Preparation      Ministry of            Ongoing                --                        312
Development Project   Developmrent                     Agriculture
(Eje Norte)
16    Area Development       Rural          Preparation      Ministry of            Ongoing                --                      1,100
Project (Caazapa)      Development                     Agriculture
and Ecology
17    Asuncion/Villeta       Transport      Feasibility      National Ports         Ongoing                --                        280
Port Development                                       Administration
5,505
Source: National Proiects Office and bank Data
USE OF FUNDS UNDER CREDIT 587-PA
(US$ million)
Cumulative Amounts
End of Fiscal Year            Approved               Cotmmitted                Disbursed
2/                       I/
79                      3.8                      1.3                      0.6
80                      4.0                      4.0                       2.5
81                      4.0                      4.0                      4.0
I/ Approved in principle by FP's Management Committee; equivalent to 707. of subloan amounts.
2/  To date, US$2.7 million have been committed; (the whole credit is due to be committed
by November 30, 1979).
Source   bank data



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
PARAGUAY
PART II. SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
1.        Enclosed is a tentative list of studies which would be the basis to
design the Preinvestment Fund's (FP) future lending program. This list has
been prepared by the National Projects Office (ONP), in consultation with the
Technical Secretariat for Planning and relevant Government agencies.
2.        According to FP/ONP's indicative projections, FP/ONP could consider
over the next four years proposals from a US$17.6 million list of studies,
with the following sectoral distribution: 34% for agriculture/rural services,
50% for transport/urban development, 2% for education and 7% each for public
utilities and industry. Although the study list is to be treated with caution
and its resulting magnitude is most likely beyond the various agencies' absorp-
tive capacity, from the sectoral point of view the distribution of the costs
involved is in line with Paraguay's public investment trends. On the basis
of an analysis of this list and the experience of the first Preinvestment
Studies Project, a total cost of US$12.0 million (including (i) US$10.0 million
for preinvestment studies, with a foreign exchange component of US$7.0 million;
and (ii) US$2.0 million for pre-feasibility studies, with a foreign exchange
component of US$1.0 million) was arrived at, and was the basis for determining
the foreign participation in the financing of ithis operation.
3.   Agriculture
In view of the limited absorptive capacity of the agencies involvecd
and the increasing number of development projects (coupled with the fragmentary
knowledge of conditions in the sector) the project studies would have to be
based on sectoral work, which could be financed by FP/ONP. For instance, more
effective policies and strategies for the sector will have to be developed, iLn
particular with a view toward finding ways to compatibilize approaches and
enhance the efficient use of scarce manpower resources. Sector institutional
work will have to emphasize assistance to improve the agencies engaged in
rural development activities to help them both strengthen and expand the land
settlement and settlement consolidation program. Recent Bank work undertaken
in the agricultural extension, training and research sectors could lead to
further studies to better coordinate use of resources in these fields.
4.        Concerning specific project studies, land settlement and settlement
consolidation schemes are estimated to require continued support. A number of
Rural Development proposals were reviewed in the context of a recent UNDP/
Bank-supported study of rural development areas and have been included for
further study in the FP/ONP list. The projects would be located in the
following areas: (i) Southern part of the Alto Parana Department (the
identification/preparation of which has already started with Bank support



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
and is likely to lead to a Bank-financed investment project); (ii) Concepcion
(which has already been studied in a preliminary way by OAS and is likely to
lead to an IDB-supported investment project); (iii) San Estanislao-Coronel
Oviedo; (iv) Mbutuy-Saltos del Guaira; and (v) Paraguari (where the OAS is
currently carrying out some further identification work). The Paraguari
proposal calls for the improvement of already settled minifundia areas.
Another area requiring consideration is agricultural mechanization in view of
the seasonal manpower shortages. Proposals for marketing are likely to lead
to projects financed by IDB and are seen as closely linked to improvement in
the marketing systems in urban centers like Asuncion (where the Bank, through
Loan 1674-PA, is financing the completion of the city's wholesale market).
5.   Transportation
The list of detailed engineering studies is based on feasibility
studies undertaken previously, or underway, in many cases with FP/ONP financial
support. However, in most cases as far as roads are concerned, the feasibility
studies have shown that there would be a need to associate the projects with
further agricultural development in this area of influence of the roads:
rural development in the Concepcion area for the Santa Rosa-Yby Yau road; and
rural development between Mbutuy-Saltos del Guaira road for this road. Prelim-
inary indications concerning the improvement of Route No. 2 (San Lorenzo-
Eusebio Ayala) have shown that further work on this road could be economically
warranted. Since feasibility studies for the San Juan Bautista-Pilar-Itapiru
Road have not started yet, it is not possible at this stage to ascertain
whether the relevant detailed engineering for this road will take place in the
near future. The remaining roads have either been indicated as candidates
for feasibility studies in earlier sector studies or have been suggested
by the Ministry of Public Works and Communications. The specific airports to
be studied have been identified in the report from consultants financed
under the previous credit. Lastly, the ports projects have been identified
in previous UNDP studies.
6.        Given the long distances and relatively little traffic prevailing
in Paraguay, to reduce costs and therefore improve the viability of road con-
struction, new low-cost construction techniques are being investigated as part
of the "Survey of locally available road construction and maintenance materials"
currently being financed under Loan 1736-PA. It is thus possible that on the
basis of this study, detailed engineering will be carried out for roads that
hitherto were found not economically viable.
7.   Other Sectors
Assumptions for industry take into account the fact that the role of
the Government will remain limited. The public sector is expected to sponsor
a number of ventures related to cement production and energy-intensive indus-
tries (e.g., fertilizer, aluminum and pulp and paper) or to be directly
involved in providing assistance to regional industrial schemes in the areas
of influence of the hydroelectric projects on the Parana River.



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
8.        Estimates for the social sector take into account a fourth Bank-
supported education project, which has been identified by the UNESCO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, and needs for education, training and health services in
the rural areas, in particular those related to rural settlement schemes.
9.        Concerning public utilities, it is expected that the activities of
the Sanitation Works Corporation will continue to expand in the cities of the
interior, with possible IDB assistance (which has already provided support to
the Corporation).



-36 -                                            ANNEX IV
SECOND PSWVEk        . STUDIES PROJECT
Tentative List of Studies to be Considered
by the Preinvestment Fund/National Projects Office for Future Financing
STUDY NAI!E                                        TYPE                       BORROWER                     STUDY COST
(US$1,000)
AGRICULTUREIRIURAL SERVICES
1.  Destumping program                                         Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculture/                450
National Development Bank
2.  Marketing program for small farmers                        Feasibility           Minietry of Agriculture!                800
National Development Bank/
Small Farmer Credit Agency
3.  New fields of agricultural researcb!strengthening          Feasibility           Ministry of Agricuiture                 360
of two research stations
4.  Agricultural mechanization                                 Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculturea
National Development Bank              800
5.  Silos at Concepci6n and Antequera                           Feasibility          Ministry of Agriculture                 500
6.  Rural insurance                                            Feasibility           National Development Bank!              260
Small Farmer Credit Agency
7.  Agricultural information                                   Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculture                120
8.  Marketing of fruits and vegetables                         Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculture                 300
9.  Rural development South of Route VII (Alto Parana)          Feasibility          Ministry of Agriculture/                500
Rural Welfare Institute
10. Fourth rural development proj ect (Concepcion)              Feasibility          Ministry of Agriculture/                250
Rural Welfare Institute
11. Rural development along San Estanislao-                    Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculture/                350
CDronel Oviedo road                                                              Rural Welfare Inatitute
12. Rural development-Paraguari                                Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculture/                350
Rural Welfare Institute
13. Rural development along Mbutuy-Saltos del Guaira           Feasibility           Ministry of Agriculture/                330
Rural Welfare Institute
14. Milk production/marketing                                   Feasibility          Ministry of Agriculture                 270
15. Improvement of rural institutions                           Institutional        Ministry of Agriculture/                400
study                National Council for
Social Progress
16. Expansion of rural health services                         Feasibility           Ministry of Health                     200
Sub-total           6,240
TRANSPORTJ1RBAN DEVYELOPMENT
17. Rosario-San Estanislao road                                Detailed              Ministry of Public Works                375
Engineering
18. Santa Rosa-Yhy-yau road                                    Detailed              Ministry of Public Works                525
Engineering
19. Mbutuy-Saltos del GuairO                                   Detailed              Ministry of Public Works             1,350
Engineering
20. San Juan Bautista-Pilar-Ita Firu                           Detailed              Ministry of Public Works                900
Engineering
21. Puerto Militar-Transchaco-Paraguay River Bridge             Feasibility          Ministry of Public Works                230
22. Villeta-Pilar road                                          Feasibility          Ministry of Public Works                300
23. Improvement Route no. 2 (San Lorenzo-Eusebio Ayala)    Final design              Ministry of Public Works                200
24. Concepcion airport                                         Final design          Ministpy of National Defense            500
25. Encarnaci6n airport                                         Final design         Ministry of National Defense            500
26. Pedro Juan Caballero airport                                Final design         Ministry of National Defense            500
27. Pabla Negra airport                                         Final design         Ministry of National Defenae            500
28. Ciudad Presidente Stroessner international airport          Final design         Ministry of National Defense          1,000
29.FL1MERE5 shipyard improvement                                Feasihility          State Merchant Fleet Agency              60
30. Nueva Palmira port (Uruguay Free Trade Zone)                Feasibility          National Ports Administration            90



ANNEX IV
-37-
STUDY NAIE                                           TYPE                     BORROWER                      STUDY COST
(US$1,000)
31. Improvement Asunci6n traffic system                         Feasibility           Municipality of Asunci6n                 300
32. Urban development:  Asunci6n, Ciudad Presidente             Planning              Municipalities of Asunci6n,              900
Stroessner, and Encarnacion                                                      Ciudad Presidente Stroessner
and Encarnacion
33. Asuncion metropolitan area electric transport               Feasibility           Ministry of Public Works                 200
development
34. Asuncion beltway                                            Feasibility           Municipality of Asunci6n                  500
Sub-total         8.930
EDUCATION
35. Fourth education project                                    Final design          Ministry of Education                     100
36. Expansion vocational training                               Preparation           National Vocational Training Service  200
Sub-total           300
PUBLIC UTILITIES
37. Sewerage in 8 cities of the interior                        Feasibility           Sanitation Works Corporation              250
38. Water supply in 20 cities of the interior                   Feasibility           Sanitation Works Corporatioin            600
39. Waste disposal in AsunciSn                                  Feasibility           Municipality of Asunci6n                  280
Sub-total         1.130
INDUSTRY
40. Energy intensive industries                                 Sector study          Technical Secretariat for Planning    700
41. Cement industry                                             Feasibility/          Ministry of Industry                      300
Detailed
Engineering                                       Sub-total          1,000
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                                         17-600
Source: National Projects Office.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
PARAGUAY
PART III. SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
Establishment of a Financial Programming Unit in the Ministry of Finance
1.   Purpose
The rapid economic development of Paraguay and the prospect of
accelerated growth in the years ahead represent a major challenge for the
country's public sector, which will have to meet a growing demand for goods
and services, both those of a social nature designed to raise the living
standard and those of a more purely economic character intended to foster
private activity. Also to be considered is the constant concern of the
authorities that the public finances be managed within reasonable margins so
that they will not cause domestic inflationary pressures--a concern that has
been demonstrated by sustained efforts over recent years.
However, in view of the general dynamism of the economy, Paraguay's
public sector must also seek to make appropriate dispositions for the future,
which implies that the management of the public finances must establish medium-
term financial forecasts that are technically structured and incorporate a
reasonable safety margin in order to allow the Government and the Ministry of
Finance, in particular, to make the right day-to-day decisions while also
knowing what the medium-term impact of such decisions will be. A study,
prompted by the Ministry and the Bank, led to the proposal that a specialized
unit be established for these purposes. The characteristics and functions of
this unit and the program for its implementation are set forth in the following
paragraphs.
2.   Functions of the Financial Programming Unit
(a) To make available continually updated financial projections covering
the entire public sector for the medium term, in line with the general goals of
the development plan and the guidelines fixed by the fiscal policy for finan-
cing and public expenditure.
(b) To establish the technical links of the major public sector financial
aggregates (total expenditure, level and make-up of financing, investment,
among others) with the monetary program, balance of payments and the short-term
economic plan. Also, within this general economic framework, to lay the founda-
tions for the annual formulation of the budget at the institution level.
(c) To analyze the applications from the different public agencies with
regard to domestic and external borrowing, verifying the existence of the
projects concerned and paying special attention to the financial commitments
that would be entailed, both in the execution stage (national counterpart
funds required) and with regard to the service of the relevant debts in the
future; it would have to draw the authorities' attention to the need to
provide for these financial impacts in the national budget for the fiscal year



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
or years concerned (the duration of the project execution period and of the
life of the debt) and make the estimates of the financial commitments and
tentative scheduling of the servicing payments on the borrowings envisaged.
(d) To keep the Minister and the Ministry staff permanently informed
regarding the status of negotiations concerning the abovementioned operations.
(e) To inform the Minister and the Assistant Secretary regarding
public sector agency borrowings for which the guarantee of the Ministry would
be required, drawing attention to their implications in terms of financial
commitments (budgetary impact) in both the short and the medium term. In
particular, it should report periodically on the use of preinvestment funds
and submit for their consideration any applications for guarantees from public
agencies for studies not included in the project, once the borrowing in
question has been approved by the Management Committee of the Preinvestment
Fund.
(f) To maintain close liaison with the pertinent technical agencies--
Central Bank, Technical Secretariat for Planning, National Projects Office
and the Directorate-General of the Budget of the Ministry of Finance--to
ensure proper coordination of the work and to prevent any duplication.
3.   Resources Required
(a) Staffing
A specialized unit such as that proposed would require a small but
highly qualified staff. Accordingly, a level of remuneration would have to be
set that would make it possible to attract and retain high caliber staff.
To begin, two experts with extensive experience in public sector
financial administration (at least three years) and three technical assistants
with professional training in the financial area, but not necessarily with any
previous experience, would be hired; at least one of them should have some
training in computer programming.
In addition, the unit would be provided with suitable secretarial
and support staff.
(b) Equipment
The unit would need a full complement of calculating machines, at
least three of which should have statistical ftmction programs and the other
two financial functions.
The unit would utilize the computer facilities recently taken into
use by the Directorate-General of the Budget, the feasibility of using a
computer terminal directly in the unit would have to be studied later.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
4.   Technical Assistance
The Ministry of Finance would need technical assistance to specify
the functions of the unit and to define the technical procedures which it
should use.
For this purpose, it is estimated that the unit would require services
of an expert with extensive experience in financial programming and public
budgeting, plus sound training in statistics and economics, for a period of
two years.
5.   Location
The unit would work in close coordination with the Assistant
Secretary in view of the Minister's involvement in the operations of the
Preinvestment Fund. However, the unit would also have to be linked to the
Directorate-General of the Budget since the latter is a main source of inform-
ation and data systematization. In addition, through being functionally
integrated with a technical group that is highly specialized and deals with
related problems, it would gain significant advantages for its technical
development.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
PARAGUAY
PART IV. SECOND PREINVESTMENT STUDIES PROJECT
Costs of Technical Assistance Requirements
(US$)
1    Economist/general coordinator for ONP (for 4 years)            260,000
1    Civil Engineer for the Ministry of Public Works and
Communication (for 2 years)                                  130,000
1    Agronomist for the Ministry of Agriculture (for 2 years)    130,000
1    Economist for the National Development Bank (for 2 years)   130,000
1    Planner for the Financial Programming Unit (for 2 years)    160,000
Fellowships for ONP and Financial Programming Unit personnel
(for 4 years)                                                      10,000
Annual seminar at ONP (for 4 years)                                  20,000
Computer equipment for the Financial Programming Unit
(for 4 years)                                                      50,000
Contingencies                                                       110,000
Total                 1,000,000
(foreign exchange: US$800,000)



PARAGUAY
SECOND PREINVEESTMET STUDIES PROJECT
Financial Projections of Preinveatment Fund (Years ending December 31)
(US$'000)
1978      1979        1980       1981        1982        1983        1984       1985        1986        1987        1988        1989       TOTAL
CASH FLOWS
Cash Inflow
IBRD Loan                                   -         -           270         820       1,000      1,270       1,640                                                                  5,000
Fondo del Plata                             -          -          180         480         600        780         960         -           -          -           -           -         3,000
Subloan Repayment -
On-Going Project
- Principal                2/           193       208         737       1,101      1,101         908         893        364         -           -           -           -        5,505
- Interest and Commission                60        78         284         230        164         103          49          11        -           -           -           -          979
New Project
- Principal                             -         -            -          -          144         528       1,008      1,632       2,400       3,116      3,592       3,972      16,392
- Interest and Commission 2/            -         -             4          53         170        310         468        641         801         915        986        1,029      5,377
On-going Project Financing                824     4,342                                 -          -           -                                  -          -                      5.166
Total Inflow                  1,077      4,628      1,475       2,684       3.179       3.899      5.018       2.648       3.Z01      4.031      4.578        5.001      41,419
Cash Outflow
Sub-loan disbursement
On-going Project                          824     4,342          -          -           -          -           -           -           -          -          -            -         5.166
New Project            3/                 -          -          720       1,920       2,400      3,120       3,840       4,000      4,000       4,000      4,000        4,000      32,000
Administrative Expeaaes -                    17         19         21          23          25         27          30          33          36          40        44           48         363
Commission to Central Bank 41                15         20         71          65          67          75         87         106         130         149        161         168       1,114
Commission to ONP  5/                        15         20         71          72          93         124        162         209         260         298       322          336       1,982
Total Outflow                   871      4,401         883      2,080       2.585       3,346      4.119       4,348       4,426      4,487       4,527       4,552      40,625      a-
Cash Surplus (Deficit)
Annual Surplus                              206        227        592         604         594         553        899     (1,700)      (1,225)       (456)       51          449         794
Accumulated Surplus                         266        493      1,085       1,689       2,283       2,836      3,735      2,035          810         354       405          854
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Bank Deposit                                266        493      1,085       1,689       2,283       2,836      3,735       2,035         810         354       405          854
Outstanding Subloans
On-going Project                          970     5,104       4,367       3,266       2,165      1,257         364         -           -           -         -
New Project                               -          -          720       2.640       4,896      7.488      10.320     12,688       14,288      15,232    15.760        15.968
Total Assets                  1.236      5.597       6,172       7.595      9.344      11.581      14,419     14,723       15.098     15.586    16,165        16.8Z2
Liabilities and Equity
Capitalized Loans                         1,191      5,533       5,983      7,283       8,883      10,933      13,533     13,533      13,533      13,533    13,533        13,533
Cumulative Surplus                           45         64         189        312         461         648        886       1,190       1.565       2.053       ,632        3.289i
Total Liabilities and
Equity                  1,236      5.597       6.172       7.595      9.344      11,581      14.419     14.723      15,098      15.586    16.165        16.822
1/  Six years repayment period including one year grace period with equal payment of capital
2/  Six percent interest and one half percent commission at disbursement
3/ Asstming an increase of 107% p.a.
4/  1.5, for on-going project and 17. for new project
5/  1.57. for on-going project and 2% for new project
October 17, 1979



5BOt V  A                                                                                          N                         /                                                                                                  ~
N.  -  IA     -                                                                      ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AME  IA 
2$-'    I CA  -
/b-                                                                                                   WI-   A    - Ad                                                                                 -                 W
/  *AAA                                                          ICFIIACC4J{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
AAA 116FF. CA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtAF  tA.                                           N                                                                                           IF.~~r'V,LFM',~0'
tAt                                  AFA-.AA                                                        -;4FFAtAFAAAAAtt
AFA  I                                                                                                                                                                       AAtAAFAFtAAAlttAtA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAF-At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
Alt                                                            AF>CAA)&C                                                S                                        AAFFAAAFAAFAA.FAtAAtAFAA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K  :EL-,   11
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SJH
,x  ~ ~         ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         EV D~~~k/A  A   
"                                                             i/A                                                                                                                  '
FRFFIFCFPFFIA     AAAAI A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR(5EN                                                                                                                     
¾                   'Ft                                                     Ct Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5



