1   LOAN NUMBER 1780 PA
Loan Agreement
(Second Pre-investment Studies Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBdR 1780 PA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated g                  /4?      , 1979, between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan
as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to Fondo Financiero para el
Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata (hereinafter called the Fund)
for a loan (hereinafter called 'the Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to three mill-on dollars ($3,000,000) to assist in
financing Part A.1 of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Fund Loan Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Borrower will carry out Parts B and C of the Project
and, pursuant to its agreement dated October 7, 1977 with the
United Nations Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP and
such agreement hereinafter called the UNDP Basic Agreement),
intends to enter into an agreement with the Bank (acting as
Executing Agency of UNDP) and UNDP, for the execution of Parts B
and C of the Project, and the financing thereof by UNDP (such
agreement hereinafter called the Project Document and the financ-
ing thereunder hereinafter called the UNDP Grant);
(D) Part A.3 of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower's Central Bank (hereinafter called Banco Central) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Banco Central the proceeds of the
Loan and of the Fund Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a pruject
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Banco
Central;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanirgs:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Banco Central of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
(b) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Banco Central pursuant to Section
4.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Agreement;
(c) "FP" means Fondo de Pre-Inversiones, an account opened
by Banco Central pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 19541,
dated December 19, 1975 as such Decree was supplemented by the
Borrower's Decree No. 21986, dated April 7, 1976 (the first of
said Decrees, as so supplemented, hereinafter called the Decree);
and "Regulations" means the Borrower's Decree No. 21984, dated
April 7, 1976, which regulates the operations of FP and embodies
the lending policies and procedures applicable to FP;
(d) "ONP" means Oficina Nacional de Proyectos, an agency of
the Borrower established by Decree No. 13299 of the Borrower,
dated June 30, 1970, as reorganized by the Borrower's Decree No.
21983, dated April 7, 1976;
(e) "Management Committee" means the committee established
by Article 3 of the Decree through which Banco Central manages FP;


﻿(f) Council" means the Consejo Nacional de Preinversi6n
established by the Borrower's Decree No. 11389 dated November 19,
1979, which, inter alia, approves and oversees the Borrower's
preinvestment policies and programs, and FP policies and lending
programs and centralizes pre-investment work in FP and ONP;
(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by Banco Central, through FP, to a Sub-borrower for a Sub-project
and to be financed, in the case of a Part A.1 Sub-loan, out of the
proceeds of the Loan or Fund Loan, or both, made available to
Banco Central under the Subsidiary Agreement or, in the case of a
Part A.2 Sub-loan, out of the proceeds of the Loan, made available
to Banco Central under the Subsidiary Agreement;
(h) "Part A.1 Sub-loan" and "Part A.2 Sub-loan" mean a
Sub-loan, as so defined, for a Sub-project for purposes of Part
A.1 of the Project or for purposes of Part A.2 of the Project,
respectively;
(i) "Free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
in an amount which shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $200,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of
the Fund Loan or of the Prior Credit for the Sub-project in
question, or (ii) $1,600,000 equivalent, when added to all other
Free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan; and "Part A.1 Free-
limit Sub-loan" and "Part A.2 Free-limit Sub-loan" mean a Free-
limit Sub-loan, as so defined, for a Sub-project for purposes
of Part A.1 of the Project or for purposes of Part A.2 of the
Project, respectively;
(j) "Sub-borrower" means an agency of the Borrower to
which Banco Central proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(k) "Sub-project" means a particular study for purposes of
Part A.1 or Part A.2 of the Project approved by the Management
Committee and to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(1) "STP" means the Secretarfa Tecnica de Planificaci6n
de la Presidencia de la Repu5blica of the Borrower, established
by Decreto-ley No. 312 and ratified by Law No. 841 dated Septem-
ber 14, 1962;


﻿-4-
(m) "Prior Credit" means the Credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Inter-
national Development Association dated October 17, 1975, such
agreement hereinafter called the "Prior Agreement"; and "Prior
Project" means the project described in Schedule 2 to the Prior
Agreement;
(n) "Fund Loan Account" means the account or accounts used
by the Fund for purposes of disbursing the Fund Loan; and
(o) "Financial Programming Unit" means the unit to be
established in accordance with Section 4.09 of this Agreement
under Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
five million dollars ($5,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan allocated, from time
to time, in respect of Part A.2 of the Project, to Category (2)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions
of such Schedule, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for such
Part A.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in
respect of a Part A.2 Sub-loan unless: (i) the Part A.2 Sub-loan
shall have been approved by the Bank; or (ii) the Part A.2 Sub-
loan shall be a Part A.2 Free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to present Part
A.2 Sub-loans for approval and to request authorization to make
withdrawals in respect of a Part A.2 Free-limit Sub-loan, all in
accordance with Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
(c) The amount of the Loan allocated from time to time in
respect of Part A.1 of the Project to Category (1) of the table
referred to in paragraph (a) above, may be withdrawn from the Loan


﻿-5-
Account: in accordance with the provisions of Article III of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and ninety-five hundredths per cent (7.95%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) procurement of the services required for Part A of the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Sections 2.07 (a)
(ii) and 2.08 of the Project Agreement; and
(b) procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect of
Part A of the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Loan, in respect of Part A.1 of the
Project, and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and cancel-
lation set forth in the Loan Agreement and the Fund Loan Agree-
ment, the amount of Loan allocated, in respect of Part A.1 of the
Project, in Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement and the amount of the Fund Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account or from the Fund Loan, or both, in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Fund Loan
Agreement and with the provisions of such Schedule, as such
Schedule may be modified from time to time pursuant to the provi-
sions thereof or by further agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The amount of the Loan referred to in Section
3.01 of this Agreement and the amount of the Fund Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account or from the Fund Loan, or from
both, as the case may be, on the basis of disbursement percentages
set forth in, and in accordance with, Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, for amounts paid (or, if the Bank and the Fund shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by Banco Central on account of
withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a Part A.1 Sub-loan to
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a Part A.1 Sub-loan unless: (i) the Part A.1 Sub-loan shall have
been approved by the Bank; or (ii) the Part A.1 Sub-loan shall be
a Part A.1 Free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to
present Part A.1 Sub-loans for approval and to request authoriza-
tions to make withdrawals in respect of a Part A.1 Free-limit
Sub-loan, all in accordance with Section 2.06 of the Project
Agreement.
(b) Upon each approval of a Part A.1 Sub-loan or authoriza-
tion to make withdrawals in respect of a Part& Al Free-limit
Sub-loan, the Bank shall request from the Fund a statement on
whether the Fund desires to finance the Sub-project to be financed
under such Part A.1 Sub-loan or Part A.1 Free-limit Sub-loan and,


﻿-7-
if it so desires, on whether withdrawals in respect of such Part
A.1 Sub-loan or Part A.1 Free-limit Sub-loan shall be made out of
the Loan Account and of the Fund Loan in accordance with Section
3.04 of this Agreement, or only from the Fund Loan.
Section 3.04. Each application by Banco Central on behalf
of the Borrower for withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request
to withdraw funds from the Loan Account and from the Fund Loan
and the funds to be withdrawn pursuant to such application
shall be apportioned by the Bank, as nearly as practicable in the
circumstances, between the Loan and the Fund Loan in the ratio of
1:1, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Bank and
the Fund; provided, however, that, if such application shall be
made in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or the Fund Loan only, such application shall be
deemed to be a request to withdraw funds either from the Loan
Account or the Fund Loan, as the case may be.
Section 3.05. When the Bank shall have approved an appli-
cation by Banco Central on behalf of the Borrower for withdrawal,
the Bank shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Loan Account to or on
the order of the Borrower in accordance with the
provisions of the Loan Agreement; and
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
in the aggregate amount specified in such notice,
that it has approved payment of the portion, if
any, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account in the
amount set forth in such notice, and that the
portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan in the
amount set forth in such notice is eligible for
payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Loan or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by Banco Central on behalf of the Borrower for
further withdrawals shall be deemed to be requested for withdrawal
of the full amount applied for from the Loan Account or the Fund
Loan only, and the provisions of this Article III except for
Section 3.04 hereof shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis
until the full amount credited or to be credited to such applica-
tion shall have been withdrawn or cancelled.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A.1,
A.2, B and C and cause Banco Central to carry out Part A.3 of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Banco Central to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, and shall take or cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Banco
Central to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance. For purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower
shall (on the basis of the work program for FP that, for each of
FP's fiscal years, shall approve the Management Committee and the
Council not later than six months before the beginning of such
fiscal year) make, not later than four months before the beginning
of such fiscal year, such budget appropriations as shall be
necessary to maintain at all times sufficient resources to meet
FP's forecast disbursements for such fiscal year.
(c) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan and of
the Fund Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and
(2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement avail-
able to Banco Central for FP by way of grant under a subsid-
iary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Banco
Central, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Council
with the powers and responsibilities which have been legally
vested on it;


﻿-9-
(b) maintain the Management Committee with the powers and
responsibilities which have been legally vested on it;
(c) provide the Council and the Management Committee with
the funds, facilities and other resources required to exercise
the powers and discharge the responsibilities thereof; and
(d) cause the Council to approve FP's policies and the
programs of Sub-proje_cs to be financed by FP, such approval to
constitute an authorization to the Management Committee to approve
the individual Sub-loans required for financing such Sub-projects
and to sign all documents required therefor.
Section 4.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out and overall coordination of Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ and provide ONP with the services of a
general-purpose Project coordinator whose qualiiications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ transport,
agriculture and industrial consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Bank.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and proVide the
Unit to be established under such Part of the Project with the
services of a consultant in organization and financial program-
ming, whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to
cause the Sub-borrowers to make punctually all payments of princi-
pal of, and interest and other charges on, the Sub-loans.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause ONP to provide tech-
nical assistance to Banco Central required to carry out Part A of
the Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause ONP to make known, to
the representatives in Paraguay of the member countries of the
Bank and Switzerland, the register of consultants kept by ONP, and


﻿- 10 -
advise such representatives that only those consultants who have
been or will be included in such register are eligible to partici-
pate in the carrying out of Sub-projects.
Section 4.07. For purposes of Article 101 of the Borrower's
Decree Law No. 18, dated March 25, 1952 and Article 32 of the
Regulations, the Borrower hereby unconditionally guarantees, as
primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
each of the Sub-loans approved by the Bank and each of the Free-
limit Sub-loans for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account or Fund Loan or both, and the premium, if any, on
the prepayment of such Sub-loan or Free-limit Sub-loan, all as set
forth in the applicable contract to be entered with the Sub-
borrower in question in accordance with Section 2.07 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall, promptly upon prepar-
ation thereof by ONP, furnish to the Bank each of the work
programs for FP, including an estimate of the cost thereof and of
the availability of funds for the purpose, and shall afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such work program
before any action on the approval thereof is taken by the Council
or the Management Committee.
(b) The Borrower shall, through ONP, furnish to the Bank,
not later than four months after the end of each year, a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the corresponding work program for FP
furnished to the Bank in accordance with paragraph (a) above which
shall include an analysis of the availability of funds which were
.estimated in respect of such work program.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall take all such measures as
shall be necessary to ensure that the Financial Programming
Unit shall be made responsible for, inter alia, working out the
financial implications of the short-term project lists prepared by
the ONP, setting forth medium-term development budgets for the
public sector, and representing, through its head, the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance in the Executive Committee so as to enable
such Ministry to effectively control the day-to-day management of
FP.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall, through ONP, furnish to the
Bank copies of all documents prepared by the consultants employed
for each Sub-project, promptly after ONP has received such copies.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall, until the Closing Date,
provide FP through Banco Central with all such funds, additional
to FP's own generated funds, as shall be required to finance
pre-investment and pre-feasibility studies the carrying out of
which has been approved by the Management Committee; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply if the financing of
such studies has been secured from sources external to FP.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, the
Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall,not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,


﻿- 12 -
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures of ONP and, in respect
of Part A of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have each of the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) hereof for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year (A) certi-
fied copies of such account for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. In view of the Borrower's decision to merge
the powers and responsibilities of FP and ONP into one single
entity, endowed with legal personality and financial autonomy,
the Borrower undertakes: (i) to take all such measures as shall
be necessary for 1he purpose, without materially and adversely
affecting the carrying out of any of the Parts of the Project;
(ii) to exchange views with the Bank on the measures referred to
in (i) above before putting them into effect; (iii) to cause the
entity to be created to assume, in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank, all rights and obligations of Banco Central under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Agreement; (iv) to complete
the putting into effect of the measures required for the creation
of the entity, in a manner consistent with its undertakings under
this Section, not .ater than June 30, 1981; and (v) to furnish to
the Bank all such evidence, including legal opinions, in respect
of the foregoing, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall utilize the proceeds of
the service charge paid to ONP in accordance with Section 2.05 (a)
(iii) of the Project Agreement primarily for supplementing the
remuneration of ONP's staff.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to provide, from
FP's resources, to ONP such advances as shall be required to cover
ONP staff's supplemental remunerations until the proceeds referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section are sufficient to cover such
remunerations.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1980, set
forth to the satisfaction of the Bank remuneration levels of ONP's
staff.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Banco Central, or any successor thereto, shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment or the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b) the Borrower, Banco Central or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of the Council or the Financial Program-
ming Unit or the Management Committee or ONP;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Banco Central or any successor
thereto will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Decree or in the
Regulations without the Bank's consent which may materially and
adversely affect ONP or the carrying out of Part A of the Project
by Banco Central or any successor thereto; and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the UNDP Grant or the Fund Loan
or of any other grant or loan made to the
Borrower or to Banco Central for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,


﻿-14-
pursuant to the terms of the UNDP Basic
Agreement or Project Document, in respect of
the UNDP Grant, or the Fund Loan Agreement, in
respect of the Fund Loan or in respect of the
agreement providing therefor in the case of
any such other grant or loan, or
(B) the Fund Loan or any such other loan shall
have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or Banco Central to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or to Banco Central from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement
and of Banco Central under the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement ohall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and Banco Central; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b), or paragraph
(d), or paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and Banco Central;


﻿- 15 -
(b) that the Executive Director of ONP has been substituted
for the Executive Secretary of STP in the membership of the
Management Committee;
(c) that the Financial Programming Unit has been established
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(d) that the Project Document has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and UNDP and the Bank;
(e) that the Project Agreement has been executed on behalf
of Banco Central; and
(f) that the execution and dplivery on behalf of the Bor-
rower of the Fund Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary governmental action and all other
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan
Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the certificate or certificates, or
opinion or opinions, as the case may be, to be furnished to the
Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Banco Central, and is legally binding upon Banco
Central in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and Banco Central and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Banco Central in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by
the Borrower and the Fund and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and the Fund in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date /&      4&, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 17 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By 1    '-JI
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan and the Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category;
Amount of   Amount of the
the Loan     Fund Loan
Allocated     Allocated        %
(Expressed    (Expressed   Expenditures
in Dollar     in Dollar        to be
Category           Equivalent)   Equivalent)     Financed
(1) Sub-loans under      4,000,000     3,000,000    70% of amounts
Part A.1 of the                                disbursed by
Project                                        Banco Central,
through FP for
purposes of
the Project
(2) Sub-loans under      1,000,000                  50% of amounts
Part A.2 of the                                disbursed by
Project                                        Banco Central,
through FP for
purposes of
the Project
TOTAL         5,000,000      3,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Loan and the Fund that no pro-
ceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such


﻿- 19 -
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policies
of the Bank and the Fund.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement or, on account
of Sub-loans or Free-limit Sub-loans, the date of the Fund Loan
Agreement, if the latter shall be the later; and
(b) by a Sub-borrower on account of Categories (1) and
(2) in respect of a Sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval if
such expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days prior
to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of
such Sub-loan the application and information required by Section
2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement or, in respect of a Free-limit
Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such Free-limit Sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.06 (b) of the
Project Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage
of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures,
provided, however, that no such reallocation of proceeds of the
Fund Loan shall be made; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any -item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting


﻿- 20 -
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:
1.   Selected pre-investment studies designed to prepare
high-priority investment projects in the transport, agricultural,
education, industry, public utilities, tourism and other economic
sectors in Paraguay.
2.   Selected sectoral and pre-feasibility studies, including
studies focusing on institutional improvements required for
strengthening economic agencies or administrative sub-divisions of
the Borrower, designed to provide sectoral information apt to
facilitate identification of high-priority investment projects in
Paraguay, and to enhance the Borrower's project. execution capabi-
lities.
3.   Making of sub-loans by Banco Central, through FP,
for purposes of financing 1 and 2 above.
Part B:
Strengthening the operations of:
(a) ONP and the Borrower's Ministries of Agriculture and
Public Works with regard to the identification and preparation of
projects; and
(b) The Borrower's National Development Bank with regard
to promotion and evaluation of industrial projects.
Part C:
Establishment and operation, within the Borrower's Ministry
of Finance, of the Financial Programming Unit.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1984
through   April 1, 1996                    190,000
On October 1, 1996                              250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.07 of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                 2.80%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         5.15%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.00%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                         7.95%


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on goods evaluated on a
c.i.f. basis, and sales and similar taxes (applicable to finished
domestic products) on goods evaluated on an ex-factory basis,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 25 -
Paraguay may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Paraguay if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Paraguay equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Paraguay.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 26 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Cont.Lcts for goods which are estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 shall be procured through limited
international tendering procedures satisfactory to the Bank,
provided, however, that the contracts so awarded do not exceed in
the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the BAnk
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 27 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.  -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other iiiormation as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Functions and Staff of the
Financial Programming Unit
1.   Functions
(a) To make available continually updated financial projec-
tions covering the entire public sector for the medium term,
in line with the general goals of the development plan and
the guidelines fixed by the fiscal policy for financing and
public expenditure.
(b) To establish the technical links of the major public
sector financial aggregates (total expenditure, level and make-up
of financing, investment, among others) with the monetary program,
balance of payments and the short-term economic plan. Also, within
this general economic framework, to lay the foundations for the
annual formulation of the budget at the institution level.
(c) To analyze the applications from the different public
agencies with regard to domestic and external borrowing, verifying
the existence of the projects concerned and paying special atten-
tion to the financial commitments that would be entailed, both in
the execution stage (national counterpart funds required) and with
regard to the service of the relevant debts in the future; to draw
the authorities' attention to the need to provide for these
financial impacts in the national budget for the fiscal year or
years concerned; and to make the estimates of the financial
commitments and tentative scheduling of the servicing payments on
the borrowings envisaged.
(d) To keep the Minister and the Ministry staff permanently
informed regarding the status of negotiations concerning the
above-mentioned operations.
(e) To inform the Minister and the Vice Minister (Subsecre-
tario) regarding public sector agency borrowings for which the
guarantee of the Ministry would be required, drawing attention to
their implications in terms of financial commitments (budgetary
impact) in both the short and the medium term. In particular, it
shall report periodically on the use of preinvestment funds and
submit for their consideration any applications for guarantees
from public agencies for studies not included in the Project, once
the borrowing in question has been approved by the Management
Committee of the Pre-investment Fund.


﻿- 29 -
(f) To maintain close liaison with the pertinent technical
agencies--Banco Central, STP, ONP and the Directorate-General of
the Budget--to ensure proper coordination of the work and to
prevent any duplication.
2.   Staff
(a) Two experts with extensive experience in public sector
financial administration (at least three years).
(b) Three technical assistants with professional training in
the financial area, but not necessarily with any previous experi-
ence, at least one of them with some training in computer program-
ming.
(c) Suitable secretarial and support staff.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this.   ZZ    day of O  G., 1979.
FOR SECRETARY


