DOCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 1780 PA
Project Agreement
(Second Pre-investment Studies Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DEL PARAGUAY
Dated                     /9       , 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1780 PA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    Iq'7A** /  , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO CENTRAL DEL PARAGUAY (hereinafter
called Banco Central).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars
($5,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Banco Central agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and Banco Central, the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to Banco Central
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the Preamble thereto, the Preamble to
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Banco Central shall carry out, through FP,
Part A.3 of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management and in accordance with the


﻿-2-
Decree and the Regulations, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Banco Central shall maintain FP and pay into FP
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Fund Loan both made available
to Banco Central under the Subsidiary Agreement and any other
proceeds made available for, or accruing from, the carrying out of
Part A.3 of the Project.
Section 2.03. Banco Central shall apply the Regulations,
which embody the lending and operating policies and procedures
applicable to FP, including the following provisions thereof:
(a) interest on the principal amount outstanding of Sub-
loans shall be at least six per cent (6%) per annum;
(b) Sub-borrowers shall repay Sub-loans over a period of not
more than seven years, including a grace period of not more than
two years;
(c) Sub-borrowers shall pay a commitment charge of one per
cent (1%) per annum on the undisbursed balance of Sub-loans;
and
(d) Sub-borrowers shall pay, in addition, a penalty charge
of two per cent (2%) per month on overdue service payments.
Section 2.04. Banco Central shall use the proceeds of the
Loan made available to it under the Subsidiary Agreement exclu-
sively to make Sub-loans under the terms and conditions estab-
lished in the Regulations and this Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Banco Central shall use all sums paid into
FP in connection with the Project and with the Prior Project
exclusively for:
(i) financing pre-investment and other studies in
accordance with the Regulations;
(ii) paying itself a service charge of not more than
1% per annum of the principal amount outstanding
of the loans made out of FP's resources; and
(iii) paying ONP a service charge of 2% per annum of the
principal amount outstanding of the loans made out
of FP's resources.


﻿-3-
(b) Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement between Inter-
national Development Association and Banco Central (Pre-investment
Studies Project), dated October 17, 1975, is hereby replaced by
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.06. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
Free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, Banco Central shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with:
(i) a description of the Sub-borrower and of the
Sub-project, including its cost, and a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or the Fund Loan or
both;
(ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization of the
Sub-loan;
(iii) complete information on the consultants to be
employed therefor, including their terms of refer-
ence and other terms and conditions of their
employment; and
(iv) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The first request by Banco Central for authorization to
make withdrawals in respect of each Free-limit Sub-loan shall
contain:
(i) a summary description of the Sub-borrower and the
Sub-project, including a description of the expen-
ditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or the Fund Loan or both.
(ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor; and
(iii) complete information on the consultants to be
employed therefor, including their terms of refer-
ence and other terms and conditions of their
employment.


﻿-4-
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1983 and shall be copied to
the Fund.
Section 2.07. (a) Banco Central undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby Banco Central shall obtain, by written contract with the
Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Bank and Banco Central, including
the right of Banco Central to:
(i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out the Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and to
maintain adequate records;
(ii) require the Sub-borrower to employ qualified and
experienced consultants, such consultants to be:
(A) acceptable to ONP, and employed upon terms and
conditions, including terms of reference, satisfac-
tory to ONP in the case of free-limit Sub-loans;
and (B) acceptable to the Bank and ONP, and
employed upon terms and conditions, including terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and ONP, in
the case of non-free-limit Sub-loans.
(iii) require the Sub-borrower to establish for each
Sub-project arrangements and procedures, satisfac-
tory to ONP, for supervising and directing the work
of the consultants employed therefor, recommending
modifications of the consultants' terms of refer-
ence or other terms and conditions of their employ-
ment, and reviewing the reports and recommendations
of such consultants;
(iv) require the Sub-borrower to take all reasonable
measures to facilitate the work of the consultants
in the performance of their services for the
Sub-project and make available to them all informa-
tion relevant to the Sub-project;
(v) require the Sub-borrower not to amend or waive any
of the terms and conditions of employment of the
consultants, or grant any material extension of


﻿-5-
time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifica-
tions thereof, or agree to substitutions of person-
nel of such consultants, without prior agreement of
ONP. The Sub-borrower shall not suspend paVments
under any contract with such consultants without
prior consultation with Banco Central and ONP and
shall not terminate any contract with such consul-
tants without prior consultation with the Bank and
ONP;
(vi) require the Sub-borrower to cause the consultants
employed for the Sub-project to furnish promptly to
ONP copies of the documents prepared by them for
the Sub-project, including reports and drafts
thereof, in such number as ONP shall reasonably
request;
(vii) require the Sub-borrower, from time to time, to
exchange views with ONP with respect to the con-
tents of the documents referred to in (vi) above;
(viii) require the consulting services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Sub-loan to be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(ix) obtain all such information as the Bank, Banco
Central and ONP shall reasonably request relating
to the Sub-project;
(x) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower
to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obliga-
tions under its contract with Banco Central;
and
(xi) have all payments of principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Sub-loan guaranteed under
the Borrower's guarantee provided for in Section
4.07 of the Loan Agreement.
(b) Banco Central shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Sub-project in such manner as to:
(i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Fund, Banco
Central and ONP;


﻿-6-
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project and
the Sub-projects.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
consultants employed for the carrying out of a Sub-project shall
be selected and employed in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of the Regulations.
Section 2.09. Banco Central shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, banco Central shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) Banco Central shall, at the renuest of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the Sub-projects the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan or of the Fund
Loan.
(b) Banco Central shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loans or of the Fund Loan, or the performance by Banco Central
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Banco Central shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Banco Central shall: (i) have FP audited each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,


﻿-7-
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning FP and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Banco Central thereunder shall termina,e on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Banco Central
thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco Central:
Independencia Nacional
y 25 de mayo
Asunci6n,
Paraguay
Cable -ddress:                      Telex:
BANCO CENTRAL                      134 PY CENTBANK
Asunci6n, Paraguay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Banco Central, or by Banco Central
on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by Banco Central's President or such other person or
persons as the President shall designate in writing, and the
President shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto and, for purposes of
paragraph (b) of Section 2.05 of this Agreement, the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-9-
of Columbia, United States of America, as -of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DEL PARAGUAY
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L.L.day of ;C ., 197-9
FOR SECRETARY


