Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13961
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3224-VE)
FEBRUARY 13, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bolivar (Bs)
US$1 = Bs 117.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BANDAGRO             Agricultural Development Bank
BCV                  Central Bank
BIV                  Venezuela Industrial Bank
COPEI                Christian Democrats' Political Party
CORPOINDUSTRIA   Institution for Artisans and for Small and Medium Industry
CPI                  Consumer Price Index
DFIs                 Development Finance Institutions
EFF                  Extended Fund Facility
FCA                  Agricultural Credit Fund
FIV                  Investment Fund of Venezuela
FOGADE               Deposit Insurance Fund
FONCREI              Industrial Credit Fund
FSAL                 Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
ICAP                 Credit Institute for Small Farmers
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
PCR                  Project Completion Report
S&Ls                 Savings and Loans
SAL                  Structural Adjustment Loan
SBIF                 Superintendency of Banks
SDR                  Special Drawing Rights



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S. A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                              February 13, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Venezuela
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (L3224-VE)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Venezuela - Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL),
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. This PCR does not contain Part II.
The loan in the amount of US$300 million was approved on June 12, 1990 and closed on June 30,
1993. Its main objectives were to liberalize the financial policy environment, reduce the Government's direct
role in financial intermediation, strengthening the regulatory and institutional framework and improving the
financial strength of intermediaries. The FSAL was one of a package of seven operations through which the
Bank committed $1.7 billion in support of a comprehensive program of structural adjustment.
The PCR discusses the results of the FSAL not only on the basis of the degree of compliance with
loan objectives and conditionality, but also taking into account the broader framework of Venezuela's overall
adjustment efforts, and the extent to which macroeconomic and other factors affected the achievement of its
objectives. FSAL conditionality was related to sectoral policy decisions and to the need for maintaining an
adequate macroeconomic framework. All sector conditionality was met and was complemented subsequently
by legislation adopted after completion of the FSAL's disbursements. Macroeconomic policy, however,
deteriorated substantially in the second half of 1992 and 1993. This led to a major financial sector crisis in
early 1994. The PCR states that the delay in approving legislation by Congress led to insufficient preparation
by the Superintendency of Banks and the Deposit Insurance Fund (SBIF), but that, even if the regulatory
functions had been properly performed, this would not have been sufficient to prevent the financial crisis
brought about by mistaken macroeconomic policies. It also argues, however, that had the SBIF been able to
perform its functions as defined in the new laws, its actions would have been effective in reducing the
proportions of the financial cnrsis, and would have provided timely signals that might have led to earlier
monetary and exchange rate action.
Based on the above, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and the institutional development as
modest. Sustainability, however, is rated as likely because the thrust of the financial reformn is expected to
continue to be supported by the country in the foreseeable future.
An audit is planned. The audit will focus on the diagnosis of the financial sector problems at the time
of appraisal, the design of the project and of its conditionality, the sequencing of financial liberalization
measures, their consistency with macroeconomic conditions, and the rationale for disbursing the loan before
the approval of legislation
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. _l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(3224-VE)
PREFACE .........................................................                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................                iii
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM
THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ......................... .....................                I
I INTRODUCTION .........................................................1 
II. MACROECONOMIC BACKGROUND ........................................                      2
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR IN 1990 ..........................................                4
IV. THE PREPARATION AND THE KEY OBJECTIVES OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
AND OF THE FSAL .........................................................               8
V.  COMPLIANCE WITH THE FSAL POLICY CONDITIONALITY                                          11......  1
VI. RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER EXTERNAL
FINANCING OPERATIONS .....................................................             23
VII. EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM AND
OF ITS SUPPORT BY THE BANK ....................... ......................               24
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .......................... .....................                31
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ......................................                     33
ANNEXES
ANNEX I The Policy Matrix .........................................................          37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
lofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUECLA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN WLAN 3224VE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in Venezuela, for which Loan 3224-VE in the amount of US$300 million
was approved on June 12, 1990. The loan was closed on June 30, 1993. It was fully
disbursed on December 29, 1992, 18 months behind schedule.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division, Department I, of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and IE). On February 9, 1994, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and m with the request
to prepare Part II by March 2, 1994, but no reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in October 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
and internal Bank memoranda.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VENEZUELA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3224-VE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.   Venezuela's economic history until the late 1980s had been characterized by wide swings
in performance as a result of inappropriate policies, which had been influenced by the country's
heavy dependence on oil exports. By the end of 1988, the overall economic situation had
become untenable: inflation was accelerating to record levels, foreign exchange reserves were
depleted, growth prospects were negative, and poverty was affecting a rapidly increasing
proportion of the country's population. To achieve efficient and sustainable growth, there was a
need to eliminate the many distortions which had been created during past decades, including
inter alia. widespread subsidies, the high levels of protection of non-oil production, an excessive
participation of the state in economic activity, and also an excessive and inefficient regulation of
the economy.
ii.   To deal with the above situation, the new government which took office in February 1989
adopted a structural adjustment program which initially included the unification of the exchange
rate, the reduction of the fiscal deficit, a substantial trade policy reform, a substantial
liberalization of interest rates as well as the preparation of a comprehensive financial sector
reform, and the formulation of a plan to replace most indirect subsides by focused social
programs. The Bank supported this structural adjustment effort through a Structural Adjustment
Loan (3091-VE), a Trade Policy Reform Loan (3092-VE), a Public Enterprise Reform Loan
(3223-VE), a Technical Assistance Loan (3225-VE), an Interest Support Loan (3279-VE) and the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), (3224-VE), which is analyzed in this PCR.
iii. In 1989-90, when the FSAL was being prepared, the main issues faced by the financial
sector included the existence of preferential interest rates for agriculture, and for loans provided
by Government-owned development banks, mandatory agricultural credit requirements for
commercial banks, excessive public sector participation in the financial system, distortions caused
by Central Bank financial operations, substantial weaknesses in the institutional and regulatory
structure and in the competitive environment for the financial system, and a large number of
financial intermediaries in a weak financial condition.
Objectives
iv.  The FSAL was designed to support the first phase of the program, focusing on:
(a) liberalizing and rationalizing interest rates and credit allocation; (b) reducing public sector
participation in the commercial banking system and redefining the role of the public sector in
development finance; (c) rationalizing the credit operations of the Central Bank (BCV), with a
view to enhancing their transparency and minimizing their disruptive effects in the financial
system; (d) strengthening the regulatory and institutional framework; (e) improving the financial
strength of financial intermediaries and upgrading mechanisms for dealing with problem banks;



iv
and (f) enhancing the competitive environment for financial intermediaries. In addition, the
FSAL included two components aimed respectively at supporting the reduction of Venezuela's
external debt and at providing technical assistance to the financial sector for, inter alia, providing
the basis for further strengthening the financial system after completion of the first stage of its
reform.
Implementation and Results
v.   The FSAL conditionality was related to the sectoral policy decisions required to achieve
the objectives referred to in para. iv of this Summary, as well as to the need for maintaining an
adequate macroeconomic framework. As analyzed in para. 33-51, the sectoral conditionality for
effectiveness and for the release of the second and third tranches was satisfactorily met, and was
complemented subsequently by additional important progress made after completion of FSAL's
disbursements. Macroeconomic performance was also moderately satisfactory in 1990-91, but
deteriorated substantially in the second half of 1992.
vi.   An important fact that facilitated FSAL implementation was the ownership of the financial
sector reform by the Government's economic team. The Bank played a meaningful supportive
role but it was just that. The Bank did not have to use the "leverage" of its FSAL to ensure the
adoption of the required basic decisions by the government's economic team, because the
government's economic team had already decided to do so. The Bank's support, however, was
important because of three reasons: a) its technical work on the financial sector provided the
basis for key aspects of the needed reform, thus facilitating and accelerating policy decision-
making; b) the financing supplied by the FSAL strengthened the position of the economic team
vis-a-vis the rest of the Executive Branch and the private financial institutions, concerning the
need for quick action in the financial sector; and c) Bank support also strengthened the position
of the Executive Branch vis-a-vis Congress.
vii. The FSAL design and implementation had to be handled by the Bank taking into account
that many of the needed reforms required Congressional approval of the corresponding
legislation. This posed a dilemma for the Bank: either to program the disbursing of the loan
based upon the adoption of the measures which did not require Congressional actions and the
submission to Congress of law proposals for all other reforms, or to postpone the availability of
all or part of the proposed loan resources (by postponing the whole loan or by dividing it into
two) until the needed laws were finally approved. The Bank decided to choose the first option,
and to go ahead with the entire $300 million loan. In doing so the Bank accepted the substantial
risk of not achieving some of the FSAL key objectives if Congress failed to approve the required
legislation.
viii. Government actions before and after completion of FSAL disbursements proved the Bank
right in accepting the risk noted above. Congress approved in 1992 the new BCV Law,
strengthening BCV and increasing its autonomy substantially. In 1993, Congress also delegated
to the Executive Branch the consideration of the proposed Banking, Superintendency of Banks
(SBIF) and Deposit Insurance Corporation (FOGADE) laws. With these three proposals,
consolidated into a broad Banking Law, approved in November 1993, all the legal objectives of
the reforms supported by the FSAL were achieved.



v
ix.   FSAL disbursements, however, were completed 18 months behind schedule. While
macroeconomic problems contributed to this delay, particularly in 1992, most of the slippage was
related to the underestimation by the Government and the Bank of the time required to prepare
the studies and to process the legal measures envisaged in the FSAL conditionality.
x.   The delay in approving the Banking Law with the new legal framework for the SBIF and
FOGADE meant that these institutions were not prepared to perform their functions properly
during 1993 and 1994 when increasing monetary instability ultimately led to a severe systemic
financial crisis. It would be naive to think that a good banking supervision is a safeguard against
systemic financial crisis. The FSAL conditionality properly identified a sound macroeconomic
framework as a necessary, if not sufficient, condition to prevent financial crises of a systemic
nature. Had the SBIF, however, been able to perform its functions as defined in the new laws,
its actions would have been very effective in reducing the proportions of the financial crisis.
Moreover, a proper supervision would have provided timely signals that, most likely, would have
led to change monetary and exchange rate policies as required to make the macroeconomic
framework consistent with stability in the financial sector.
Sustainability
xi.  In view of the consensus that has been reached by the Government's Executive Branch,
Congress and the financial community on the basic objectives of financial reform, it can be
reasonably expected that such objectives will continue to be supported by the country as a whole
in the foreseeable future. There is still the unavoidable risk of new policies reversing some
reform decisions, but the strengthening of BCV autonomy by the recent BCV Law,1' other
aspects of the BCV and Banking Laws, and the prevailing national consensus in support of most
of the reform objectives, make it unlikely for a full counter-reform of this sector to succeed.
Most likely, the present financial and foreign exchange crisis will force the authorities to adopt
macroeconomic policies consistent with the objectives of the financial sector reform and to
accelerate the reform process in general and the strengthening of SBIF and FOGADE in
particular.
Main Findings and Lessons Learned
xii.  The main findings and lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
a)   Whenever important economic reforms are well designed and fully owned by the
Government, it may be justified for the Bank to accept substantial risks in order to
support such reforms, as it did through the FSAL analyzed in this PCR.
b)   In order to minimize such risks, it is also important to involve all interested parties
at a very early stage of preparation of the reform. In the case of Venezuela's
financial sector reform, substantial progress was made by expanding the sense of
ownership at the early stages to include Congress and the private financial
community. The 1992-93 political crisis, however, posed substantial obstacles to the
working relationship between the Executive and Legislative Branches of Government
.2/ Official Gazette number 35106, December 4, 1992.



vi
and delayed both approval of basic laws and the development of an effective system
of bank supervision.
c)   Support of a comprehensive structural adjustment program through a package of
global and sectoral Bank loans, and the allocation of conditionality among them, can
yield very positive overall results. In the case of Venezuela, the success achieved in
the deregulation of interest rates and in other important sectoral reforms supported
by the FSAL, enabled BCV to utilize monetary policy in a very effective way.
d)   On the other hand, the FSAL experience also shows that to achieve the desired long-
term effects of an important financial sector reform, it is essential to have a
consistent approach in all related economic policy areas and to strengthen the
institutions that have to enforce the regulatory system. To ensure consistent
economic policies, it would have been advisable to include in each loan
conditionality the decisions in related policy areas that would have maintained a
sound macroeconomic framework as a safeguard against systemic financial crises.
The institutional strengthening planned for the SBIF and FOGADE should not have
been delayed until Congress approved the new Banking Law. The low priority that
the borrower gave to the implementation of the technical assistance component of the
FSAL left the financial system without a proper supervision when this was most
needed to reduce the risks of financial crisis.



Part I: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
PROGRAM IDENTITY
Name                      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number        :      3224-VE
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Country                  Venezuela
Sector                    Non-Project Lending
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    To assist the Venezuelan Government in addressing the serious economic and social problems
emerging mainly from the structural deficiencies and distortions caused over the last four decades
by the subsidization by the oil sector of the rest of the country's economy, the Bank supported the
government adjustment and development policies with substantial technical and financial support.
Such support included 14 loans approved between June 1989 and December 1992 for a total amnount
of $2412 million.  About two thirds of this amount was aimed directly at supporting the
government's adjustment program, through six operations:
a)    Loan 3091-VE, a Structural Adjustment Loan, which was approved on June 15,
1989, aimed at supporting the initial stage of the Structural Adjustment Programn
adopted by the government which took office in February 1989. The program
included, inter alia, measures directed at deregulating the economy, eliminating
subsidies and encouraging private investment;
b)    Loan 3092-VE, a Trade Policy Reform Loan, which was approved on June 15, 1989,
aimed at reducing excessive and uneven protection, and at encouraging exports and
domestic competition;
c)    Loan 3223-VE, a Public Enterprise Reform Loan, approved on June 12, 1990, aimed
at reducing the dominance of the public sector in the economy; improving the
competitive environment for the private sector; increasing the efficiency and
rationalizing the price structure of public enterprises; promoting clarity, transparency
and accountability in the relationship between the Government and public enterprises;
and promoting, over the medium term, the strengthening of public finances;
d)    Loan 3224-VE, a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, also approved on June 12,
1990, which was aimed at liberalizing the financial policy enviromment, reducing the
Government's direct role in financial intermediation; and strengthening the
competitiveness and financial condition of intermediaries;
e)    Loan 3225-VE, a Technical Assistance Loan, also approved on June 12, 1990, aimed
at providing technical support for Venezuela's structural adjustment effort; and



2
f)   Loan 3279-VE, an Interest Support Loan, approved on December 13, 1990, which was
designed to support -- jointly with debt reduction components included in Loans 3091,
3092, 3223 and 3224 -- Venezuela's Debt Reduction program.
In addition, several other Bank loans were related to specific aspects of the adjustment process,
including, inter alia, the November 1990 Social Development Loan (3270-VE); the December 1991
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (3420-VE); and the August 1992 Judicial Infrastructure Reform
Loan (3514-VE).
2.   The results of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to which this Project Completion Report
(PCR) refers, are analyzed herewith not only on the basis of the degree of compliance with loan
objectives and conditionality, but also taking into account the broader framework of Venezuela's
overall adjustment efforts and of the Bank's support for such efforts. The Report thus starts by
analyzing briefly the macroeconomic and sectoral conditions prevailing at the time of loan approval.
It deals, subsequently, with loan objectives, conditions and other features; the country's compliance
with the loan conditionality; the relations between this loan and other external financing; and the
overall macroeconomic and sectoral effects of the loan. This PCR aims also at identifying the extent
to which macroeconomic and other factors not explicitly related to the loan have affected the
achievement of its objectives. This report, however, is not intended to present an overall evaluation
of Venezuela's structural adjustment process. This evaluation would be better undertaken in the near
future in the framework of the Country Portfolio Performance Reviews that -- as indicated in the
recent report 'Portfolio Management: Next Steps - A Program of Actions" (R-93-125, June 16,
1993).
II. MACROECONOMIC BACKGROUND
A. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
3.   Venezuela's recent economic history has been characterized by wide swings in performance
as a result of inappropriate policies, which have been influenced by the country's heavy dependence
on oil exports. The oil boom of the 1970's led to a short period of rapid growth when the
government started large investment programs to diversify the economy. During this time, the
government undertook major policy and administrative reforms, and introduced important programs
to improve social services. However, when oil prices stabilized, this demand-led growth caused a
steadily deteriorating external trade balance, and, eventually, a sudden shift toward contractionary
macroeconomic policies.  This stop-go pattern continued until the mid-1980s reflecting the
fluctuations in the world oil markets. By 1985, Venezuela had a distorted economy which lacked
the foundations for sustainable growth, with a large external debt and prospects of increasing
inflation. Although oil prices doubled in real terms between 1973 and 1986, real income per capita
fell by one-fifth. By the end of 1988, Venezuela's economic situation was untenable: foreign
exchange reserves were depleted (they were equal to 3 months of imports), imports were accelerating
due to an expected devaluation, the Central Bank was building up internal arrears on foreign
exchange, and domestic inflation was accelerating to previously unheard-of levels. Perhaps more



3
disturbing was the rapid spread of poverty to a point where in 1987 it affected about 44 percent of
the population, compared with 33 percent in 1982.
4.   Four significant factors had handicapped the economy. Eb1, Venezuela had not pursued a
coherent, viable development strategy. A series of disjointed, contradictory policies had been
characterized by increases in the extent and complexity of government controls. Regulations and
subsidies, which affected virtually all economic activities, had led to structural rigidities, declining
private investment, and reduced real per capita output. Producers, accustomed to high protection,
were ill-equipped to compete internationally or to utilize resources efficiently. Owing inter ali to
over-regulation, excessive public sector participation in financial activities, and the distortions caused
by frequently used interest rate subsidies, the financial sector had not provided an overall
environment conducive to the efficient mobilization of savings towards productive investment, and
to optimizing the allocation of financial resources. Second, Venezuela had remained highly
dependent on petroleum which, until the 1986 collapse in prices, provided 95 percent of export
earnings. The economy beyond the petroleum sector was unevenly developed and provided limited
employment. TidbI, Venezuela addressed the problems of poverty through unsustainable controls
of exchange rates and prices. It had not developed modern, focused programs of income
redistribution. Social indicators in Venezuela were poor for a country at its level of income, with
major urban slums and high rates of infant mortality, malnutrition, illiteracy and population increase.
And fourth, despite numerous prograrns, Venezuela's governmental institutions and public
administration remained weak and lacked the basis for the modernization of government operations
that would be required to support a sustainable economic development strategy.
B. THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM: KEY OBJECTIVES
5.   The new Government which took office in February 1989, sought to redefine the role of the
state through economic reform and restructuring. The aim was to reduce the regulatory framework
and the complex, costly subsidies which pervaded the economy; and to encourage private investment
and production through trade and financial reforms. The measures included a reform of the
exchange and trade systems, reduction in price controls, deregulation of financial and industrial
markets, and improved government operations. The Government also planned to improve social
programs to alleviate poverty. There were five main elements in the initial Governrent adjustment
program. First, the Government unified the exchange rate. The unified market-determined exchange
rate for the bolivar began on March 14, 1989 when exchange controls were abolished, and the value
of the currency was determined in an expanded interbank market. Second, the Government planned
to reduce the fiscal deficit from 7 percent of GDP in 1988 to 3 to 4 percent in 1989 by increasing
petroleum product prices, power and telecommunication rates and the prices of goods produced by
public enterprises, and by controls on spending. In the medium and longer term, the deficit was to
be reduced by eliminating subsidies on exchange rate guarantees, carrying out a planned privatization
program, making further price increases, reforming income taxes and introducing a value added tax.
fhiWr, the Government undertook a substantial trade policy reform aimed at reducing protection,
encouraging competition in domestic markets, and promoting export growth. Fourth, as a first step
in financial sector reform, commercial interest rates were to be determined flexibly to reflect market
factors and the Government planned to study legislation to rationalize regulation and supervision of
financial institutions. FiftjL the Government planned to convert most indirect subsidies into focused
social programs. The remaining indirect subsidies would be for a reduced list of goods of special



4
concern to the poor and would be funded through direct budgetary transfers. Focused prograrns,
such as school-feeding programs and those operating through neighborhood clinics were to be
developed.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR IN 1990
A. OVERVIEW
6.   The Venezuelan financial system had been conceptually based on a system of specialized
banking whereby different types of institutions had different functions. Commercial banks were
conceived to borrow and lend short-term for working capital and other short-term needs. Finance
companies were to lend for fixed assets and consumer goods as well as support the development of
commercial companies. Mortgage banks were to borrow using long-term instruments and lend for
construction, home improvement and expansion, and home and commercial property purchases.
Savings and loans (S&Ls) were to also borrow long-term and lend for consumer purchases of homes.
In practice, there was a de facto universal banking system since financial institutions had formed
financial groups whereby a group offered clients a full array of financial services and diversification
options.
7.   Table 1 depicts the structure of the financial system as of end-1989.  There were 41
commercial banks, 16 mortgage banks, 29 finance companies, and 20 S&Ls. There were, in
TABLE 1: STRUCTURE OF THE FINANCLAL SYSTEM
(Billions of Bolfvares, as of 12/31/89)
.,-'.',~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~i %,;           otb S'tn g -;   . 
Commecial Bak:      41       549.3     73       385.8     71        31.7     78 
Privato Dornestic  31      454.4      61       355.4     66        26.4    65 
Private Foreign    2         4.8       1        2.3       O         0.5      1    l
Public              8       90.0      12        28.0      5         4.7     12    l
Mortgage Banks      16        69.9      9        58.9     11         3.2      8
Finance Cornpanies  29        84.4     11        64.3     12         5.9    14
Saving and1oans     20       45.2       6        32.6      6          -
Sourc: BCV



5
addition, 31 leasing companies, 3 pension funds, and about 27 liquid asset funds, brokerage houses,
and foreign exchange offices.2' As the table shows, commercial banks were the most important
financial institutions, accounting for 73 % of the assets of the financial system. From 1987 through
1989, commercial banks and finance companies increased their share of assets, funds attracted and
credits, while mortgage banks and S&Ls decreased theirs. The system's six largest commercial
banks accounted for 57% of the total assets of the system and 63% of total bank deposits. These
commercial banks were part of the six largest financial groups which were dominant in the financial
sector. Below this group were 15 medium-sized commercial banks with between 1% and 4.9%  of
deposits each (29% of the total), and 20 small banks with less than 1% of deposits each (8% of the
total).
TABLE 2: REAL INTEREST RATES AND FINANCIAL DEPTH, 1987-93
Real fieti -Rtes~:      Rit -  os to GDP(%)    Rel M eydes<-
endn      Deposit  _____   ____
1981        -1.8         -0.4        16.6        38.4      100.9        85.6
1982         5.2         7.5         16.5        42.7       93.4        88.8
1983         7.6        10.7         18.7        49.3       98.9       96.1
1984         1.0         3.2         14.6        39.6      100.0      100.0
1985         0.0         3.2         14.8        39.1      101.1       98.2
1986        -1.6         2.1         16.9        42.1      108.6       99.6
1987      -14.4         -11.2        14.8        35.1      106.1       92.4
1988      -11.8          -8.5        15.2        33.5      105.3        85.3
1989         3.0          0.0         9.8        24.7       63.4       59.0
Source: BCV
iL    Yearly averages deflated by consumer price increase (CPI) over the year; for 1989 end-of-year interest rate
is deflated by the annual average increase in CPI for the second semester only.
b/   Average money stock over the year.
C/   Average money stock over the year deflated by CPI annual averages. Index 1984 = 100.
8.    Over the 1980 - 89 period, the stock of money broadly defined (M2), fluctuated widely (see
Table 2). M2 rose over the early 1980s, reaching a peak of 49% of GDP in 1983. It declined
steadily afterwards, to less than 25% of GDP in 1989, the lowest figure in the decade. The drop
in monetization coincided with the period of negative real interest rates. In 1987 and 1988, lending
ai    These later institutions are not included in the percentages indicated in this section.



6
interest rates were negative in real terms by, respectively, 14 and 11 percentage points. It was
expected in 1990 that the shift to market-determined interest rates planned then by the Government
would facilitate a remonetization of the economy.
9.   The Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) had traditionally played a pervasive role in the
financing of activities in most sectors of the economy. In particular, the BCV expanded credit by:
(i) financing government deficits through the purchase of domestic public debt; (ii) subsidizing public
and private enterprises through foreign exchange guarantees at rates that heavily overvalued the
domestic currency; (iii) providing liquidity to the banking system through a liberal rediscount
program, and (iv) supporting special sectoral incentive programs and channelling them through the
financial system.
10.  Monetary policy, subordinated to the achievement of these objectives, was made even more
precarious by the virtual absence of flexible instruments of monetary control. The result was that
the BCV had only a loose grip over money supply. Many activities (like the complex array of
sectoral incentive programs) were premised on obtaining loans at interest rates well below market-
clearing levels. Reserve requirements failed to have a disciplinary effect on money supply as these
requirements were frequently transgressed and their highly differential nature meant that money
supply was vulnerable to portfolio shifts across different types of deposits and institutions. Monetary
control was exercised in a rudimentary fashion by ad-hoc policies restricting BCV credit to banks
or inducing additional bank deposits at the BCV's money desk. However, the flexibility of the
BCV's money desk facility as an instrument of monetary contraction had been lost due to the fact
that the rate paid was only infrequently adjusted according to the monetary objectives of the BCV.
Moreover, the direct nature of these instruments had other lasting side-effects: (i) it increased the
BCV's responsibility for the losses of financial institutions; (ii) it made monetary policy more
vulnerable to political pressures; and (iii) it resulted in the bureaucratization of monetary policy-
making.
B. MAIN FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES
11.  Since early 1989, the Venezuelan Govermment had started to address some of the main
problems affecting the operation of the financial sector. By mid-1990, however, key sectoral issues
still had to be dealt with. As identified then by the Government and Bank staff, the main ones were
as follows:
a)   Interest rates. Although the overall interest rate ceilings established periodically by the
Central Bank were intended since early 1989 to follow market conditions, there were
doubts in the financial markets about whether that market-oriented policy would be
maintained over the long-term. There were, moreover, sectoral distortions caused by
the preferential rates utilized by various development funds, as well as the preferential
rate (7 percentage points below other sectors) that financial institutions had to charge
in their loans to the agricultural sector.
b)   Agricultural Credit Requirements for Commercial Banks. Commercial banks had the
legal obligation to allocate at least 22.5% of their portfolio for agriculture and



7
agroindustry -- a restriction which caused severe distortions in the operation of the
financial system.
c)   Excessive Public Sector Participation in the Financial System. The Government and the
Central Bank owned 9 commercial banks, all of which had poor asset quality.  In
addition, there were 23 state-owned Development Finance Institutions (DFIs). One of
them -- the Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV) -- had been created in 1974 to
manage the windfall emerging from the 1973-74 oil price increases, and its main
function was to finance state enterprises, although it also acted as a second-tier lender
through conmnercial banks and other financial institutions. The other 22 DFIs were
controlled by sectoral ministries and obtained their funding through government
transfers, government-guaranteed external financing, and loans from FIV. These DFIs
did not have properly defined roles, and their operations contributed substantially to the
overall distortions and inefficiencies prevailing in the financial system.
d)   Distortions Caused by Central Bank Financial Operations. There was a substantial
quasi-fiscal drain on Central Bank resources caused by its credit to the public sector
(mainly through unremunerated Treasury bills and low-interest Treasury bonds) and by
its subsidies to financial institutions.
e)   Weaknesses of the Institutional and Regulatora Structure. These included: (i) Lack of
clarity on the functions of the main regulators: the Central Bank, the Finance Ministry,
the Superintendency of Banks, and the Deposit Insurance Corporation; (ii) Lack of
autonomy and powers of the Superintendency of Banks; (iii) inadequate mechanisms for
managing and solving bank crisis; and (iv) weak prudential regulations.
f)    Weak Financial Condition of Financial Intermediaries. Many commercial banks were
affected by poor asset quality, lending concentration, foreign exchange risk exposure,
inadequate capital, vulnerability to liquidity shortfalls and poor profitability. Twelve
of the 38 banks not subject to intervention, which accounted for 22% of the total assets
of the system, had non-performing portfolios which exceeded their total estimated
capital base in August 1989. Mortgage Banks and Savings and Loan Associations were
also facing major financial problems largely owing to the mismatch between the
maturity and rate structure of their assets and liabilities, as well as to an inadequate
capital base.
g)   Weak Competitive Environment for Financial Intermediaries.  Short-term  money
markets lacked depth and long-term capital markets were under-developed and
mobilized very little equity capital.  These weaknesses were mainly due to the
prevailing subsidized interest rates; weak regulatory structures and authorities; excessive
economic concentration; excessive state intervention; and legal restrictions on the
activities of conmmercial banks and to foreign ownership of financial intermediaries,
which were inconsistent with the requirements of a fully competitive and efficient
financial system.



8
IV. THE PREPARATION AND THE KEY OBJECTIVES OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM AND OF THE FSAL
A. MAIN OBJECTIVES
12.  The main objectives of the Government's financial sector reform program were:  (i)
liberalizing the financial policy environment (interest rates, allocation of credit, foreign ownership,
universal banking, etc.); (ii) reducing the Government's direct role in financial intermediation (by
privatizing and liquidating public banks, consolidating the DFIs, rationalizing housing finance policy,
and limiting the BCV's role in the financial support of institutions to bank liquidity and monetary
management needs); and (iii) strengthening the competitiveness and financial condition of
intermediaries (through adequate prudential regulations and supervision, capital standards, and
mechanisms for handling problem banks).
B. PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN
13.  The FSAL was designed to support the first phase of the program, focusing on:  (a)
liberalizing and rationalizing interest rates and credit allocation; (b) reducing public sector
participation in the commercial banking system and redefining the role of the public sector in
development finance; (c) rationalizing the BCV's credit operations with a view to enhancing their
transparency and minimizing their disruptive effects in the financial system; (d) strengthening the
regulatory and institutional framework; (e) improving the financial strength of financial
intermediaries and upgrading mechanisms for dealing with problem banks; and (f) enhancing the
competitive environment for financial intermediaries.
14.  A second phase of the Government program, which the Bank said it might consider supporting
through subsequent loans, would include: (i) the full liberalization of interest rates and credit
controls following the strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework; (ii) completion
of the restructuring of the development finance system; and (iii) a full program for reform of the
housing finance system. In addition, the Government would pursue reforms in the areas of capital
markets and insurance which were largely outside the scope of the first phase.
15.  To support the Government's efforts to deal with the above issues, Bank staff started to work
in early 1989 with the Central Bank and the Finance and Planning Ministries to prepare the FSAL,
in close coordination with the processing then under way of the 1989 SAL and Trade Policy Reform
Loans. A comprehensive Financial Sector Report was completed in October 1989, providing the
analytical basis for the FSAL. After additional work by Bank staff, the Central Bank and other
Government agencies, the FSAL Initiating Memorandum was submitted by the LAC Region to
Senior Management in February 1990; the Appraisal Mission visited Venezuela in March; and the
loan was negotiated in May and approved on June 12, 1990.
16.  While loan preparation required substantial technical work, it was facilitated by the fact that
the Venezuelan authorities and the Bank regional staff had similar views on what needed to be done
and were, therefore, able to work closely throughout this period.  The FSAL objectives and



9
conditions were extensively discussed inside the Bank, to ensure consistency in the approach followed
by this loan with that of other policy-based operations including, in particular, the SAL, Public
Enterprise Reform and Trade Policy loans. In comments made at various processing stages, Bank
staff raised questions on the degree to which the FSAL conditionality was sufficient and adequately
focused, and on issues such as the advisability of promoting the immediate approval of universal
banking.  Frequent consultations were also held during this period with the IMF (on the
macroeconomic situation and on technical issues such as the Central Bank open market operations),
and with the I1DB, which cofinanced the FSAL. According to the information available in the project
files, the decisions made on the questions raised during all these discussions did not introduce any
major modifications in the loan proposal made by the regional staff.
17.  The key issue which emerged during the preparation/appraisal/negotiations process was the
fact that many of the needed reforms required Congressional approval of the corresponding
legislation. This posed a dilemma for the Bank: either to program the disbursing of the loan based
upon the adoption of the measures which did not require Congressional actions and the submission
to Congress of Draft Laws for all other reforms, or to postpone the availability of all or part of the
proposed loan resources (by postponing the whole loan or by dividing it into two) until the needed
laws were finally approved. The Bank, decided to choose the first option, and to go ahead with the
entire US$300 million loan. This course of action may have been fully justified in view of the full
comnmitment of the Government's Executive Branch to the proposed reforms, and of the urgent need
for foreign exchange then facing the country. In doing so, however, the Bank accepted the
substantial risk of not achieving some of the FSAL key objectives if Congress failed to approve the
required legislation.
18.  The FSAL supported Venezuela's structural adjustment program in general, and its financial
reform program in particular, with US$300 million allocated as follows:
a)   US$218 million to finance imported goods, and whose disbursement would take place
in three tranches of, respectively, US$71 million, US$71 million, and US$76 million,
the first of which would be disbursed upon loan effectiveness. Release of tranches
would be subject to Venezuela's compliance with the specific policy conditions referred
to below;
b)   US$75 million earmarked for a debt reduction plan, linked to the renegotiation of
Venezuela's debt with commercial banks. If no agreement was reached on such a plan
by February 28, 1991 (or a later date approved by the Bank), this US$75 million could
be added, in equal amounts, to the three tranches referred to in (a) above; and
c)   US$7 million for a technical assistance component aimed at supporting Venezuela's
reform of its financial system through the financing of consulting services and training
activities, and related equipment.



10
C. ACTIONS TAKEN BEFORE BOARD PRESENTATION
19.  The overall structural adjustment program  prepared in 1989-90 by the Venezuelan
Government, with Bank technical support, included, from the very beginning, the reform of the
financial sector as a key component. The public statements and policy decisions made during this
period by the Government's economic team made it clear that the financial sector reform was owned
by them. The Bank played a meaningful supportive role but it was just that. The Bank did not have
to use the "leverage" of its FSAL to ensure the adoption of the required basic decisions by the
government's economic team, because the government's economic team had already decided to do
so. The Bank's support, however, was important because of three reasons: a) its technical work
on the financial sector provided the basis for key aspects of the needed reform, thus facilitating and
accelerating policy decision-making; b) the financing supplied by the FSAL strengthened the position
of the economic team vis-a-vis the rest of the Executive Bank and the private financial institutions,
concerning the need for quick action in the financial sector; and c) it also strengthened the position
of the Executive Branch vis-a-vis Congress.
20.  The decisions taken by the Governmnent Executive Branch and the Central Bank on the
financial sector before Board presentation of the FSAL reflect the position referred to above of the
government's economic team. In assessing them, however, account has to be taken of the constraint
posed by the need to enact the legislation required by some of the most important aspects of the
needed reform. While the Executive Branch and the Central Bank did as much as possible within
the constitutional limits of their power, those affected by the reform -- particularly the beneficiaries
of subsidized credit and some private financial institutions which objected to strengthening the
regulatory framework -- were able to delay Congressional action on important aspects of the reform
until 1993.
21.  The most important single decision adopted before Board presentation was the deregulation
of interest rates. The Central Bank decided initially to let interest rates be freely determined by the
market, except for the preferential rates benefitting agriculture and the borrowers of Government-
owned development finance institutions. Subsequently, the Supreme Court decided that the Central
Bank had the legal obligation to maintain interest rate limits. In view of this, the Central Bank
decided in April 1990, to set up limits that would allow the rates to be market-determined, by
establishing minimum deposit rates and maximum lending rates of, respectively, 10% and 60%, both
of which were far from the then prevailing inflation rate. The Central Bank also decided to link to
the market the preferential rates for agriculture and some other activities; to limit such preferences
to, respectively, 15% and 10% of free market rates; and to reduce the mandatory allocation of
commercial banks' credit to agriculture.
22.  The Government and the Central Bank also took actions before Board presentation of the
FSAL to start the process of privatizing commercial banks owned by the Central Bank, reduce the
credit subsidies provided through Central Bank operations, and begin eliminating the management
by the Central Bank of external portfolios. In addition, a number of other important decisions by
the government, the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks (SBIF) were either adopted or
announced in commitrnents included in the Policy Statement sent to the Bank in connection with the
FSAL. All these decisions, as well as the conditions for the release of the FSAL second and third



11
tranches, are listed in the Policy Matrix attached to the FSAL President Report and, also, to this
PCR.
V. COMPLIANCE WITH THE FSAL POLICY CONDITIONALITY
23.  The FSAL policy conditionality comprised two main categories:  a) the country's
macroeconomic performance; and (b) the sectoral reform program, including specific conditions for
the release of each tranche. This PCR section will deal first with performance at the macroeconomic
level; secondly with compliance with specific conditions for effectiveness and for the release of the
FSAL's second and third tranches; and thirdly, with actions taken after the FSAL was fully
disbursed. At the end of the section for each tranche, the Bank's overall sectoral judgement of
compliance with the financial sector reform programn objectives will also be examined in the
framework of Venezuela's structural adjustment objectives and of their support by the Bank.
A. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
24.  It was envisaged in the Loan Agreement that, before releasing the second and third tranches,
the Bank would have to be satisfied that the Borrower's macroeconomic framework was consistent
with the objectives of the Program. The main aspects of the macroeconomic evolution in 1990-92
is summarized in paras. 25-31, while para. 32 presents an overview of the situation at the end of
1992.
25.  Main Macroeconomic Proeram  Components:  The Government's adjustment program
supported by the IMF and the Bank consisted of four elements: a foreign exchange program
establishing a unified market-determined exchange rate; a fiscal reform plan to reduce the deficit by
adjusting prices of goods produced by state enterprises, spending controls, tariff reform, privatization
and tax reform; a financial reform to adjust interest rates to market levels, and to rationalize
regulation and supervision of financial institutions; and a social sector plan to convert most indirect
subsidies into focused social programs.
26. Economic Growth: The economic program substantially reduced major internal and external
imbalances, although at the cost of a steep recession in 1989. (See graph 1). GDP declined by 8
percent in 1989 and investment by 6 percent of GDP as private sector investment fell and public
investment was curtailed, in part due to delays in obtaining legislative approval of the public
investment program. However, after 1989, although investment remained below its pre-adjustment
level, its efficiency improved significantly. GDP growth resumed in 1990 increasing by 7 percent
in that year and by 10 percent in 1991, owing, in part, to windfalls from the 1990-91 Gulf crisis.
Despite increasing political instability reflected in two failed coup attempts the growth rate in 1992
was 7 percent, with growth driven entirely by the non-oil sector which had increased its growth rate
vis-a-vis the oil sector since the adjustment program began.  GDP declined by about 1 percent
during 1993, a year when elections took place at the end of a political crisis that forced the president
Carlos Andres Perez to resign. (See Table 3.)



12
GRAPH 1
GDP GROWTH RATE
12
l0
a
a
4
2
percent
0
-2
-4
.10
1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1089 1990 1991 1992 1993
TABLE 3: Gross Domestic Product Growth Rate/
OIL SECTOR         -0.4         13.9          10.4          -0.3         3.3
NON OIL           -10.9          5.2          10.3          8.1          -2.1
SECTOR
TOTAL              -8.9          6.8          10.4          7.3          1.
Source: (B.C.V.)
27.   Inflation: Between 1988 and 1989, inflation increased from 30 percent to 85 percent as a
result of the exchange rate depreciation, the adjustnents in prices of public goods and services and
the liberalization of most domestic prices. Inflation declined to 41 percent in 1990 and stabilized at
around 32 percent in 1991 and in 1992 (see graph 2). In 1993, however, inflation accelerated to
reach 45 percent during the year.



13
GRAPH 2
INFLATION RATE
90--
so 
60-
70
40
30
40
10
198O  1961  1962  INS  1964 166  196  1987  198U  1969  1990  1991  19  19
28.   Interest Rates: As a result of interest rate liberalization under the adjustment program, the
real deposit rate increased from significantly negative levels to -5.6 percent in 1990 and to positive
levels thereafter. Real interest rates have been high and rising during most of 1993 as a result of
the Central Bank's monetary and exchange rate policies. (See Table 5).
29.   Fiscal Policy: For three of the four years preceding the adjustment program the consolidated
public sector ran a large deficit which reached 9.9 percent of GDP in 1988. In 1989 the deficit was
reduced to 1 percent of GDP, largely because of higher international oil prices and the devaluation,
which increased oil revenues in local currency terms. The fiscal situation improved further in 1990
and 1991 due to windfalls from the Gulf crisis and privatization. The Government, however, did
not take adequate advantage of the elbow room provided by such windfalls to promote longer-term
fiscal stability, and the overall fiscal situation worsened again in 1992 and 1993 when Congress
delayed approval of new taxes.
30.   Exchange Rate: Between 1986 and 1988, the bolivar appreciated by 36 percent. In 1989,
as part of the reform program, the bolivar was devalued some 69 percent in real terms. However,
during the subsequent two years the bolivar appreciated by 26 percent (see graph 3). At the end of
1992 the real exchange rate was allowed to recover almost the same level as twelve months earlier
but the authorities tried to contain inflation by allowing a further appreciation during 1993. The
appreciation that occurred since 1989 ultimately led to a foreign exchange crisis. In May 1994 the
Central Bank had to limit the amount of foreign exchange sold every day allowing a rapid
devaluation of the domestic currency.



14
GRAPH 3
REAL EXCHANGE RATE INDEX
Base 1985 = 100
140 ~/                          ,/ 
lo-
100
4t 
*        ~~I        RE rIf   I               I I
limo isi tim  us  amun  us. ii  1937 lo"  im  Iolm  13  liE
Note: Tbe index measures the value of foreign exchange in domestic curency units.
31.   Financial Suppo: The success of the reform program depended on receiving adequate
external finance and, given the strength of the early policy reforns, the international financial
institutions provided support quickly. In addition to a First Credit Tranche of SDR 343 million in
March 1989, the IMF approved a three-year EFF of SDR 3.7 billion (about US$4.8 billion) in June
1989. Based on the performance on economic policy, the IMF approved releases of EFF tranches
as programned during 1989 and 1990. In these two years, the Bank approved the adjustment loans
listed in para. 1 above, for a total amount exceeding US$1.6 billion. In December 1990, agreement
was reached between the Government of Venezuela and its commercial bank creditors on a financing
plan. Under the plan, Venezuela exchanged US$19.7 billion in original claims by commercial bank
creditors (representing 73 percent of Venezuela's outstanding medium- and long-tern, public and
publicly guaranteed debt) for five new instruments involving debt and debt service reduction. It was
estimated that the rescheduling would save Venezuela an estimated US$500 million a year in 1991-
1995 and US$800 million a year in 1996-2006.
32.   The Situation at the End of 1992: an Overview. The overall economic situation improved
substantially between 1989 and 1992, owing to the economic reforms introduced by the government
and to additional foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues emerging from the 1990-91 Gulf
crisis. Annual GDP growth had averaged over 8 % in 1990-92, while inflation remained in the 30-
35% annual range, well below the 85% level of 1989. By December 1992, when FSAL
disbursements were completed, however, economic prospects were less positive. The overall balance
of payments situation and prospects were affected negatively by declining oil prices and by an



15
exchange rate which overvalued the domestic currency. This was also having an important negative
impact on public finances. There was a need for immediate decisions to deal with the fiscal deficit,
which was contributing substantially to the likelihood of increased inflation. Market interest rates
were at high real levels (about 15% in December) under the influence of Central Bank open market
operations designed to counter-balance the exchange rate and fiscal problems, and to avoid a
substantive increase in the rate of inflation. This was also contributing to depressing credit demand
and to slowing down economic activity. These economic trends, and the difficult political situation
then prevailing, made it unlikely for Venezuela to achieve substantial GDP growth in 1993.
B. RELEASE OF THE FIRST TRANCHE
33.  The conditions for FSAL effectiveness, and, therefore, for the release of its first tranche, were
as follows:
a)   The Bank had to be satisfied that the macroeconomic policy framework was consistent
with the objectives of the financial sector adjustment program.
b)   Studies of the financial condition of commercial banks and selected mortgage banks and
finance companies would have been commissioned.
c)   SBIF would have issued all the changes required to tighten regulations on:
provisioning, loan classification, rollover of credits and accrual of interest, chargeoffs,
evaluation of investment portfolios, and evaluation of property received as collateral.
d)   SBIF would have issued instructions to banks to: (i) establish a general loan-loss
provision of at least 2% of loans by June 1991 (with specific provisions counted against
the general provision); (ii) write off loans past due by more than 36 months by June
1991; and (iii) require their auditors to include an assessment of loan classification and
concentration in audits.
e)   Government would have issued a resolution forbidding BIV and BANDAGRO from
engaging in lending operations by requiring that any new deposits and all loan
recoveries be invested in securities of the Treasury or the BCV. BIV's operations would
resume once its restructuring is substantially under way.
34.  A Bank supervision mission concluded in November 1990, that Venezuela had met all the
above conditions, with the exception of the macroeconomic policy framework, which was then under
discussion with the IMF. After the government and the IMF agreed on the macroeconomic policy
framework, the loan was declared effective, and the first tranche was released on December 7, 1990,
several months after what was expected at the time of Board approval.
C. RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCHE
35.  The conditions for release of the second tranche of the FSAL were as follows:
a)   That the macroeconomic policy framework was consistent with the objectives of the
financial sector adjustment program.



16
b)   That satisfactory progress had been made in implementing the financial sector reform
program.
c)   That the SBIF: (i) had issued changes satisfactory to the Bank, to the regulations
applicable to any bank or financial institution within SBIF's jurisdiction (SBIF
Institution) on exchange risk valuation, loan concentration limits, and controls for
transactions amongst any given group of SBIF Institutions inter-related through equity
ownership or control, including requirements for consolidation of accounts of, and
uniform criteria for preparation of financial statements for, each such group; and (ii)
had completed studies on portfolio review, fixed asset valuation, loan concentration and
foreign exchange losses of SBIF institutions.
d)   That the Borrower's Executive Branch had submitted to the Borrower's Congress a
proposed law for the modification of laws currently governing SBIF as presented by the
Borrower under the Program, satisfactory to the Bank, which, inter alia, would aim at
(i) tightening norms on capital requirements and lending concentration, and widening
the scope of sanctions, including fines, that SBIF is authorized to impose on any SBIF
Institution that has not abide by SBIF's regulations; (ii) reorganizing SBIF as an
autonomous entity with its own revenues and with a budget subject only to Central
Bank's Board approval; (iii) granting full executive powers to the Superintendent
subject, in respect of certain specific matters, to approval of a Consultative Committee;
and (iv) ensuring that the Superintendent will be supported by experienced and qualified
management who shall report exclusively to said Superintendent.
e)   That the Borrower's Executive Branch had submitted to the Borrower's Congress a
proposed law for the modification of the laws currently governing FOGADE satisfactory
to the Bank, aiming at: (i) defining clearly the role of FOGADE in the management
of banking crises; (ii) strengthening the mechanisms available to FOGADE for the
resolution of said crises; (iii) strengthening FOGADE's financial position; (iv) enabling
FOGADE to manage its own funds; and (v) enabling FOGADE, through changes in its
accounting and financial statements preparation methods, to reveal accurately its
operations and financial condition.
f)   That the Borrower's Executive Branch had submitted to the Borrower's Congress a
proposal for modification of the Central Bank Law satisfactory to the Bank, which: (i)
would grant to Central Bank the power to regulate interest rates charged and paid by
all financial intermediaries, including savings and loans and development funds; (ii)
would eliminate the Central Bank's obligation to exercise the power referred to in (i)
above, thus allowing Central Bank to let interest rates to be determined by the market;
(iii) would allow Central Bank to purchase Treasury bills, subject to the credit limit
referred to in (iv) below, provided, however that any such purchase should take place
after an auction, on a residual basis and at an average price of such auction; (d) would
enable Central Bank to include, as part of the overall limit of credit from Central Bank
to the Borrower that will be maintained at its current level, the nominal value of Central
Bank holdings of, or rights to the, Borrower's debt (including but not limited to,
holdings or rights originated in Borrower's debt-equity swaps or in the Borrower's debt
denominated in foreign currency with the exception, on a transitory basis, of holdings



17
or rights originated in ongoing reduction or restructuring of external public debt); (v)
would allow Central Bank to enter into discounting, rediscounting, advancing or
repurchase contractual (or otherwise evidenced) arrangements with SBIF Institutions,
to the extent said transactions are limited to a 30-day maximum duration; and (vi) would
eliminate the current obligation of Central Bank of limiting its purchases of Treasury
bills to those redeemable within the execution period corresponding to the Fiscal Year
in which such bills are purchased.
g)   That the Central Bank had, in respect of each of the commercial banks it owns,
completed the valuation of such bank's net worth and made available to prospective
purchasers the bidding or tender documents for the sale thereof, all to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Bank.
h)   That a program had been submitted to the Bank, whereby Central Bank will disengage,
on terms presented by the Borrower under the Program and satisfactory to the Bank,
all portfolios which, as of March 15, 1990, were held in trust by Central Bank, with
the exception of Fideicomiso Cambiario.
i)    That the Borrower's Executive Branch had submitted to the Borrower's Congress one
or more proposed laws as presented by the Borrower under the Program on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the creation of: (i) a second-tier agricultural
credit institution which would absorb all assets and liabilities of, among other
agricultural funds, the Fondo de Credito Agropecuario, of the Fondo del Cafe and of
the Fondo Fruticola and (ii) a second-tier industrial credit institution which would
absorb the assets and liabilities of, among other industrial funds, each of Fondo d
Credito Industrial and Fondo de Industria y Tecnologia and of the second-tier
intermediation operations of FIV.
j)    The Borrower's Executive Branch had submitted to the Borrower's Congress one or
more proposed laws as presented by the Borrower under the Program, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing for modifications to Ley de Credito so
as to (i) permit (a) issuance by the Borrower's Treasury of fixed term negotiable short-
term Treasury bills not mandatorily redeemable within the execution period
corresponding to the Fiscal Year in which such bills were issued and (b) market
determination of the price of said bills, and to (ii) prevent the maintenance or
establishment of any system or mandatory ranking of purchasers requiring, or leading
to, the preferential placement of Treasury bills issued in accordance with (i) above
amongst one or more pre-determined types of agents or purchasers.
k)   The Borrower had commissioned services, including, if so required, the services of
consultants, or shall have caused said services to be commissioned, for purposes of
completing, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower, Central Bank and
the Bank, a plan of prompt action for the financial recovery, staff rationalization,
administrative reorganization or restructuring of BIV and the four regional banks owned
by BIV. Such plan had to contain a schedule for the resumption of BIV's lending
activities.



18
36.  On December 27, 1991, one year behind schedule, the Bank released the FSAL Second
Tranche, after concluding that:
a)   The macroeconomic framework was consistent with the objectives of the reform
program; the President's memorandum to the Bank EDs noted in this respect the
positive economic performance in 1989-91, as well as Venezuela's compliance with the
IMF's EFF arrangement; and
b)   The financial sector reform program was being implemented satisfactorily, and even two
important third tranche conditions (the privatization of three Banks and the submission
to Congress of a BCV Law proposal) had already been fulfilled. The progress made
in the main aspects of the sector reform program is analyzed in the following
paragraphs. This progress fulfilled all the sectoral conditions for the release of the
Second Tranche, except as noted in para. 40 below.
37.  Liberalization of Interest Rates and Rationalization of Credit Allocation. The new Banking
Law submitted by the Executive Branch to Congress and approved in 1993 eliminates the BCV
obligation to establish interest rate limits, and centralizes the setting of all preferential and other
administrative rates in BCV. While this proposed law was being considered, BCV was setting the
minimum deposit rate and the maximum lending rate at levels that were far from inflation rates; and
preferential rates for agriculture at 85 % of the average lending rate of the six largest commercial
banks. All lending by Government-owned DFIs for agricultural and non-agricultural activities had
been set at not less than, respectively, 85 % and 90% of the same average lending rate of the six
largest commercial Banks. The agricultural portfolio requirement for commercial banks had been
reduced from 22.5% to 17.5%.
38. Reduction of Public Sector Participation in the Financial System. The Government had
privatized ahead of schedule three BCV-owned commercial banks (which had been a third-tranche
release condition); had decided to liquidate the Agricultural Development Bank (BANDAGRO); had
prepared a plan for the restructuring of Venezuela Industrial Bank (BIV); and had submitted
legislation to Congress aimed at streamlining the network of Government-owned development banks,
drastically reducing their number through consolidation or closing.
39.  Rationalization of BCV'S Credit Operations. The proposed new BCV law would be aimed
at: (a) pricing BCV credit according to market conditions; (b) reducing the BCV intermediation role
by developing money markets and allowing other public entities to invest their funds directly in
capital markets instead of placing them in BCV-administered funds; and (c) tightening Treasury
access to BCV financing. Through administrative resolutions, the BCV had already: (a) decided
that all rediscounts would be offered at a rate determined by the yield on auctioned Treasury bills;
(b) terminated direct transactions of Government securities at face value for portfolio managed in
trust; and (c) prepared a plan, acceptable to the Bank, for BCV's disengagement from administered
portfolios (with the exception of thefideicomiso cambiario.)
40.  Reform of the Regulatory Framework and Improvements in Bank Supervision. As envisaged
in the second tranche conditionality, the Superintendency of Banks (SBIF) had issued new
regulations, acceptable to the Bank, applicable to the financial institutions within its jurisdiction, and
the government Executive Branch had submitted to Congress a new SBIF law. In addition, the new



19
Banking Law had also been submitted to Congress ahead of schedule ( it was a third tranche
condition). The proposed Banking Law introduced the concepts of group and universal banking, and
the proposed SBIF Law included, inter alia, revised norms on lending concentration.  The
Government and the Bank agreed that for SBIF to issue then, in advance of Congressional action,
norms related to groups, universal banking and loan concentration, would be likely to cause
substantial problems for the approval by Congress of those two laws, and could reduce the
probability of such approval. In view of this, it was agreed to postpone the issuance of such SBIF
revised norms until after the approval of the lawsY
41.  Strengthening Financial Intermediaries and Upgrading the Mechanisms for Dealing with
Problem Banks. SBIF had completed several studies required by FSAL conditions, and had
instructed banks to set-up a not-less-than 2 % provision on all outstanding loans; write off loans more
than 36 months past due; and require auditors to assess loan classification and concentration. A law
proposal submitted to Congress would strengthen the Deposit Insurance Corporation (FOGADE) and
the Banking Law, also submitted as a proposal, would set up appropriate procedures to deal with
problem banks.
42.  Enhancing the Competitive Environment for Financial Intermediaries. The Government had
already met a third tranche condition by submitting to Congress a Banking Law proposal which
would enhance competition among financial intermediaries, and substantially liberalize banking
activities and foreign ownership of banks.
43. Summary Evaluation. By December 1991, the macroeconomic framework was consistent with
the reform program objectives, and the sectoral adjustment progran was on track including
compliance with all specific actions envisaged in the loan agreement for this stage, except for the
revision of regulatory norms referred to in para. 39. At the same time, some important third tranche
conditions, including the privatization of banks noted in para. 37, had been met. On the whole,
Venezuela's performance fully justified the release of the Second Tranche. At that time, however,
it was still too early to ascertain whether the long-term impact of the sectoral reform program would
fulfill expectations.
D. RELEASE OF THE THIRD TRANCHE
44.  The conditions for the release of the third tranche were as follows:
a)   That the Borrower had submitted to the Bank a program satisfactory to the Bank for the
capitalization of FOGADE, with contributions therefore starting not later than January
1991.
b)   That the Borrower had made contributions to capitalize FOGADE, which would have
covered not less than 50% of FOGADE's losses.
c)   That the Borrower's Executive Branch had submitted to the Borrower's Congress a
proposed law, satisfactory to the Bank, modifying the Borrower's Banking Law so as
l/   Some of these norms were issued by SBIF in 1993, after Congress delegated to the Executive Branch the
final approval of the Banking, SBIF and FOGADE Laws (see paras. 56-58 below).



20
to: (i) indicate the procedures and the role of the various Borrower's agencies and
administrative sub-divisions, involved in solving banking crises; (ii) increase minimum
capital requirements for entry into the system of a new SBIF Institution which will
supply commercial or mortgage banking services, to not less than the equivalent of
US$6,000,000; (iii) allow universal banking and introduce procedures to facilitate
mergers and consolidations; (iv) set as 1 to 20 the minimum permissible ratio between
equity and total assets for commercial banks, mortgage banks and finance companies,
while allowing the future introduction of a risk-weighted system for the computation of
the asset base (including some contingencies); (v) allow (a) up to 20% foreign
ownership of commercial banks, upon enactment of the revised law, and up to 30% in
the future with prior authorization of the Borrower's Executive Branch and (b)
Executive Branch authorization as the sole step required to enable foreigners to acquire
up to 100% of any financial intermediary operating in Venezuela other than a
commercial bank subject to the prior issuance of general operative criteria therefor; and
(vi) to eliminate the possibility of computing the value of Treasury bills held by a bank
as part of its reserve requirements.
d)   That the Borrower, including all of the Borrower's agencies, had taken all such
measures necessary to ensure that Central Bank and each other agency of the Borrower
which directly or indirectly owned or controlled, as of April 30, 1990, an equitable
interest in any commercial bank had divested of such interest by selling it to private
purchasers or by otherwise disposing of such interest in form and substance satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
e)   That the Borrower had taken all actions necessary to restructure CORPOINDUSTRIA
according to "Plans"; meaning (A) the strategic plan indicating the role of
CORPOINDUSTRIA and ICAP as first-tier credit institutions, (B) the action plan for
their restructuring.
f)   That the Central Bank and FOGADE had taken all the action required on their part to
disengage FOGADE's portfolio from Central Bank's trusteeship and to enable
FOGADE to exercise an effective control of decisions on the management thereof, or
to obtain an equivalent result.
g)   That the Borrower had issued a Decree reducing agricultural lending requirement on
commercial banks to 12% of each bank's total portfolio.
45.  On December 29, 1992, one year after the second tranche release and 18 months behind
schedule, the Bank released the FSAL third tranche. This was done since Venezuela had met all
specific sectoral FSAL conditions, as indicated in the following paragraphs, but in spite of Venezuela
not being at that time in compliance with the IMF arrangement and of the doubts that could have
been raised then about macroeconomic prospects. (See para 52 below.)
46.  Liberalization of Interest Rates and Rationalization of Credit Allocation. After second tranche
release, BCV had reduced the agricultural portfolio requirement of conmmercial banks to 12%.
Moreover, the already approved BCV Law centralized in BCV the setting of all preferential and
other administered rates. While this law, as approved by Congress, had maintained the obligation



21
for BCV to establish interest rate limits, BCV had continued setting such limits at levels far from
the inflation rate, thus allowing deposit and lending rates to be determined by the market.
47.  Reduction of Public Sector Participation in the Financial System. As indicated in para. 38,
three BCV-owned commercial banks had been privatized prior to second tranche release.
Subsequently, as envisaged in the loan agreement, the number of public development banks had been
reduced to two second-tier institutions -- the Industrial Credit Fund (FONCREI) and the Agricultural
Credit Fund (FCA) -- and two first-tier entities -- a credit institute for small farmers (ICAP) and a
lending institution for artisans and for small and medium industry (CORPOINDUSTRIA).
48.  Rationalization of BCV's Credit Operations. The new BCV law included all the reforms
proposed by the Executive Branch (see para. 39). After second tranche release, BCV continued to
make satisfactory progress in disengaging from administered portfolios.
49.  Reform of the Regulatory Framework and Improvements in Bank Supervision. The Banking
and SBIF Laws had not been approved yet by Congress, but this did not contradict the FSAL
conditionality since approval of those laws was not required by such conditionality. The SBIF,
however, had started the process of reaching consensus with the banking community on the required
regulatory reforms, thus enabling it to issue some of the needed regulations prior to the approval of
the law, without a high risk of legal or political problems.
50.  Improvine the Strength of Financial Intermediaries and Upgrading the Mechanisms for Dealing
with Problem Banks. While important decisions had to wait for the still pending Congressional
approval of the proposed FOGADE and Banking Laws, the Government had taken administrative
action to meet FSAL conditions in this respect, including the preparation of a program satisfactory
to the Bank for the capitalization of FOGADE, and the contribution to FOGADE of the amount
required to cover not less than 50% of FOGADE losses (actual contributions covered more than
100% of such loses). Actions had also been taken to disengage FOGADE's assets from BCV and
to enable FOGADE to exercise effective control over the management of all its assets.
51.  Enhancing the Competitive Environment for Financial Intermediaries. No further substantial
progress had been achieved in this respect after second tranche release owing to lack of
Congressional action on the proposed Banking Law. Such additional progress, however, was not
a condition for third tranche release.
52.  Macroeconomic Framework. While the sectoral reform program was on track, and all specific
sectoral conditions for the release of the second tranche had been met, the overall macroeconomic
situation, which was also part of the third tranche conditionality, was quite worrisome, because of
the reasons stated in para. 32 above. Because of the fiscal situation, moreover, Venezuela was not
in compliance with its agreement with the IMF. Within a framework such as this, the Bank usually
does not release a tranche of a policy-based loan. However, in view of Venezuela's compliance with
all sectoral conditions and, also, of the overall progress being made in the structural adjustment
process supported by several Bank loans, the Bank Management decided to deal with the
macroeconomic situation by seeking and obtaining -- through a December 12, 1992 letter from the
Planning Minister -- Government agreement that, prior to the release of the third tranche of the
Public Enterprise Reform Loan: a) a macroeconomic assessment by Bank staff would take place;
b) the proposed sales and minimum gross assets taxes should be implemented, or, if such taxes were



22
not approved by Congress, other permanent sources of revenue would be provided by measures such
as tariff and price increases of publicly-supplied goods and services; and c) expenditure reductions
and accelerated privatization could also be undertaken to ensure that a viable 1993 budget was
achieved. On this basis, the Bank decided that all required conditions were met and released the
FSAL third tranche.
53.  Overall Evaluation. Given the good compliance by Venezuela with virtually all financial
sector conditions, the decision to release the third tranche of the FSAL seems, on balance, justified.
It was clear, however, that the full benefits of the financial sector reform would not be obtained until
the Government could deal adequately with some aspects of the economic situation and prospects,
particularly concerning policy areas intimately linked to financial sector performance such as public
finances and exchange rates. The Bank Management, by requesting from the Planning Ministry the
letter described above, was sending a warning that the Government had to take effective action to
correct a worrisome macroeconomic trend. Unfortunately, the political developments that ultimately
forced the President to resign did not allow a timely implementation of the measures that should have
restored macroeconomic stability before the present administration took office in 1994 after elections.
E. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DEBT REDUCTION COMPONENT
54.  The Bank support of Venezuela's debt reduction program was originally estimated at US$500
million, to be provided through an Interest Support Loan (US$150 million) and debt reduction
components in the SAL (US$100 million), Trade Policy Loan (US$87.5 million), FSAL (US$75
million), and Public Enterprise Reform Loan. (US$87.5 million). The FSAL portion of the scheme
was released at loan effectiveness, in December 1990. It was subsequently decided, in November
1991, to reduce the total amount of Bank support for the debt reduction programn to US$312.5
million, shifting the debt reduction components of the SAL and the Trade Policy Loan to the
financing of imports.
F. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
55.  The FSAL's Technical Assistance component was not approved by the Venezuelan Congress
as an item for whose financing external loan resources could be utilized. As a result, this loan
component was not implemented, and its amount (US$7 million) was canceled. The main studies
envisaged in the FSAL, however, were carried out with domestic financing. Meanwhile, most of
the items directed towards modernizing SBIF, including, in particular, equipment and training, had
not been implemented. In the event, this omission became particularly serious when the absence of
an adequate system to enforce the prudential regulations defined in the new Banking Law (approved
just before the elections ) increased the likelihood and the cost of a systemic financial crisis.
G. ACTIONS TAKEN AFTER COMPLETION OF DISBURSEMENTS
56.  As indicated above, the achievement of key FSAL objectives depended upon approval of
legislation by Congress, and such approval was not included in the loan conditionality. The
substantial risk accepted by the Bank in approving the FSAL under these conditions proved to be
worth taking. As also noted before, one key piece of legislation, the Central Bank Law, was
approved in 1992, substantially increasing the Central Bank autonomy and its ability to formulate and



23
implement an effective monetary policy. In addition, after the release of the third tranche in
December 1992, some important administrative and legislative actions have taken place.
57.  Concerning regulatory reform, SBIF has continued and intensified in 1993 the process of
achieving consensus with the financial community on the most important actions envisaged in the
FSAL, and of issuing the corresponding new regulations without waiting for the reform of the SBIF
law. Until October 1993, these SBIF regulations dealt with classification, restructuring, reserves and
concentration of banking credit; collateral guarantees; classification of investments; risks in foreign
exchange; extraordinary income; off-shore banking; auditing norms; and capitalization requirements
for banks. The most important aspects of the required regulatory reform, therefore, were already
being implemented before the enactment of the new law governing SBIF activities.
58.  Even more important is the approval of the legislation governing the banking system, SBIF
and FOGADE. In the framework of the difficult political and economic problems faced by
Venezuela, Congress decided, after the replacement of President Perez, to grant emergency powers
to the new President, enabling the Executive Branch to enact some specified high-priority pending
legislation, including the three laws referred to above. The governmnent decided subsequently to
consolidate those three law proposals into a comprehensive Banking Law, which has been approved
in November 1993 by the President and the Cabinet. This new law consolidates all key elements
of the three original proposals including, inter alia, the authorization of universal banking; the
unification of rules governing equity capital requirements of commercial and mortgage banks and
finance companies; the authorization of ownership by foreign capital of all types of private financial
institutions, including commercial banks; and a substantial strengthening of the institutional structure,
operational capabilities and financial resources of FOGADE and SBIF. Unfortunately the same
political events that led to the late approval of this fundamental law also explain the absence of the
institutional development required for the SBIF and FOGADE to perform their functions properly.
The high costs of this shortcoming of the financial sector reform process became obvious when the
financial crisis developed in January 1994 shortly after the new administration took office.
VI. RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER EXTERNAL FINANCING OPERATIONS
59.  As indicated in para. 1, the FSAL was part of a package of six loans designed to support
Venezuela's structural adjustment program. This was a well integrated overall effort, aimed at
supporting and promoting the general adjustment effort, with particular emphasis on several of its
key components -- trade, financial and public enterprise reforms, as well as the reduction of
Venezuela's external debt. The close relationship arnong these operations involved a coordinated
allocation of conditionality among them, as well as between them and the IMF arrangements. On
balance, this coordinated approach worked quite well.
60.  During the implementation of the FSAL and of the other adjustment operations the Bank
maintained close contacts with the IMF.  Such consultations were particularly intensive on
macroeconomic policy in connection with Board presentation and tranches release. During loan
preparation, moreover, Bank staff also consulted often with IMF staff about technical aspects of the
financial system, such as those related to open market operations of the Central Bank. These close
contacts notwithstanding, the Bank maintained an independent position, having decided, as already



24
indicated in para. 50, to release the FSAL third tranche at a time in which Venezuela was not in
compliance with the IMF arrangement.
61.  The Bank also worked closely during loan preparation and implementation with the IDB,
which cofinanced the FSAL operation.  There was also an important relationship with the
renegotiation of Venezuela's debt with foreign commercial banks, mainly related to the support
provided by the FSAL and other policy-based loans to the Debt Reduction Program.
VII. EVALUATION OF THE GOVERNMENT'S FINANCIAL
SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM AND OF ITS SUPPORT BY THE BANK
A. OVERALL DESIGN
62.  The FSAL was aimed at supporting the first and most difficult stage of a comprehensive and
well-designed reform of the entire financial sector, avoiding most of the pitfalls frequently associated
with the piecemeal support of partial reforms. Its overall impact, however, was negatively affected,
as already indicated in this report, by the less-than-satisfactory performance of fiscal and exchange
rate policies that ultimately led to a systemic financial crisis. As also referred to in prior sections,
since key parts of the reform program required Congressional approval, the Bank accepted a
substantial risk, with ultimate results that were quite positive but not fully satisfactory. The delay
in the institutional development required to implement the regulatory framework defined in the new
Banking Law represents a serious flaw in the timing of the reforms that has both contributed to the
financial crisis and made its cost very high.
B. MAJOR COMPONENTS
63.  As described in more detail through this PCR, the reform program supported by the FSAL
was aimed at liberalizing the financial enviromnent (interest rates, allocation of credit, foreign
ownership, and universal banking, among other aspects); reducing the government participation in
the sector (by closing, privatizing or consolidating government-owned financial institutions, and
focusing the BCV support of financial institutions on liquidity and monetary management needs);
strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework; and strengthening the financial condition
and competitiveness of financial intermediaries.
64.  Two separate FSAL components were aimed at supporting the government's Debt Reduction
Program and at providing the technical assistance required by the financial sector. The debt
reduction component was satisfactorily implemented, but unfortunately, the technical assistance
component had to be cancelled because of lack of Congressional approval.
C. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL PERFORMANCE
65.  As described in Section V.A. of this PCR, Venezuela's overall macroeconomic performance
in 1990-92 was, on balance, quite positive with strong GDP growth and with inflation, while still
too high in the 30-35% range, remaining well below the 1989 level. Two weak aspects of that
performance in 1992-93 -- fiscal and exchange rate policies -- combined with declining oil prices and



25
with the effects of President Perez's political crisis in determining a substantial worsening of the
economic situation. GDP declined by about 1 percent in 1993 while inflation accelerated. The
annual inflation rate, as measured by the Caracas Consumer Price Index, increased from 32% in
December 1992 to an accumulated 45.9% prior to December of 1993. The exchange rate,
meanwhile, has been allowed to increasingly overvalue the bolivar.  These macroeconomic
imbalances led in 1994 to a financial and a foreign exchange crisis.
TABLE 4: STRUCTURE OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
I ______________   ____________________  (12131/89   and   06/30/93)
. . o ........... . .   . - . . .   . . . . . . ..............     .,,.  
,                                                                    , .,, . ,,, . ,,. , ,,.,., ..... .. , m r , . 0 .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . .
Comtnercial Banks:    41       45         73         77         71        78         78        72
Private National   31         36         61         71        66      7S 6t                   65
Private Foreign     2         S           1         1          0         0          1          1
PubLic              8         4          12         5          5         3         12         6
I~~~~~
m   -                              m         -          m          -~~~~~~~1 
Mortgage Banks       16        16          9          6         11         6         8          5
Finance
Companies          29         37         11         12        12         12        14         20
Savings and Loans
-. .   .                 6                    6....
Totals  86     98        100        100       100       ~~~~      ~~~~00  10-010
Sources and Notes:
Data: For 12/31/89: BCV (from Table 1 of this PCR)
For 06/30/93: For Commercial and Mortgage Banks: SBIF ("Boletin", April - June 1993)
For Savings and Loans: BCV ("Boletin", June 1993)
66.   Tables 4 and 5 summarize some interesting characteristics of the impact of the financial sector
reform and of its relationship with the overall economic situation. The change in the structure of
the system between 1989 and 1993 shown in Table 4 reflects the results of privatization, which
caused a substantial increase in the share of private national banks and a corresponding decline in
that of public banks. It also shows a substantial increase in the number and equity capital of finance
companies. The November 1993 Banking Law, and some recent SBIF regulations, are likely to
cause further important changes, including a probable increase in the share in the system of foreign-
owned banks, as well as some effects of the more uniform approach now being followed concerning
the regulation and supervision of all types of financial institutions.



26
67.   Table 5 clearly shows the relations between Venezuela's persistent (and now accelerating)
inflation and the behavior of the financial system. The money supply declined substantially in 1988-
89, recovered in 1990-92, and dropped again in 1993. The lack of fully appropriate fiscal and
foreign exchange policies has left only one feasible option: to utilize open market policy, in the
framework of deregulated interest rates, to compensate for the shortcomings of the other economic
policies. As a result, annual real lending interest rates shot up in 1993. The Government took some
measures in 1993, including the enactment of a value added tax, to improve the fiscal situation but
this was not enough to reverse the adverse macroeconomic trend.
TABLE 5: REAL INTEREST RATES AND FINANCIAL DEPTH, 1987-93
Real Interest Rates--     Ratios to GDP(%),,   .      E;- M       1d -
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~L en~ding  D eposit  _ _ _ _ _ _    M 2     _    _   _  _  _
1987          -14.4        -11.2         14.8         35.1          106.1          92.4
1988          -11.8        -8.5          15.2         33.5          105.3          85.3
1989           3.0          0.0           9.8         24.7           63.4          59.0
1990           -1.1        -5.6           8.3         25.2           57.9          64.7
1991           5.1          0.5           9.6         29.7           66.2          75.7
1992               7.5          2.8          8.8          27.9          63.8           74.2
June-1992         6.9          2.7             __     _     _          64.3           73.0
Dec-1992         15.2         11.6           _           _             60.4           74.1
June-1993        17.2         13.7           ---                       44.8           66.1
Source: BCV and Bank Staff
a/   Yearly averages for 1987-92, deflated by consumer price index (CPI) over the year. For 1989, the end of
year interest rate is deflated by the annual increase in CPI for the second semester of 1989. The monthly
figures for June and December 1992 are deflated by the CPI over that year, while the June 1993 interest rate
is deflated by the annual increase in CPI for the first semester of 1993.
b/   Average money stock over the year.
c/   Average money stock over the year deflated by CPI annual averages. The monthly figure for June and
December, 1992, and June 1993 are deflated by the CPI level for those months. Annual and monthly indices
are based on 100.0 annual averages for M, M2 and CPI in 1984.
68.   Looking at the overall economic situation in mid-1993, two facts become clear:  Ei.,
financial sector reform, particularly concerning deregulation of interest rates, made it possible to
avoid a further substantial acceleration of inflation, and a worsening of the existing internal and
external financial disequilibria. Second, in the absence of more appropriate fiscal and exchange rate
policies, the demonetization of the economy had reached a point at which further reductions in the



27
nominal growth of the money supply through open market operations would become economically
inadvisable and politically unfeasible. The macroeconomic situation, in short, became inconsistent
with financial stability. Even if the regulatory functions had been properly performed, this would
not have been enough as a safeguard against a financial crisis of a systemic nature brought about by
mistaken macroeconomic policies. On the other hand the absence of proper bank supervision made
the financial crisis much more likely and increased its cost. The financial crisis of 1994 has revealed
both the mistaken macroeconomic policies followed and the weakness of the bank supervision
system.
D. GOVERNMENT OWNERSHIP
69.  The financial sector adjustment program was rapidly implemented and its legal reform
objectives attained when this reform was fully owned by the government's economic team in the
Perez Administration. The Bank played an important and, in some aspects, catalytic role, but the
early reform success was mainly due to the full support of the Government's Executive Branch. The
only question that could be raised in this respect is whether it would have been feasible to move
faster in expanding the sense of ownership to Congress and to the private financial community,
through appropriate and timely consultations and, also, through a more forceful exercise of
Presidential leadership. This could have facilitated an earlier approval of the required legislative
measures before the political crisis that would affect later the Venezuela's Presidency. This would
have reduced the risks of financial crisis by allowing a timely development of the capacity to enforce
the new legal and regulatory system.
E. OVERALL PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND THE BANK
70. As described in prior sections of this PCR, the overall performance of the Govermment's
Executive Branch in handling and promoting the financial sector reform has been unusually consistent
and effective, in the face of a serious national political crisis. It should be noted, moreover, that
Congress, while initially delaying the required decisions, has shown that it also supports the reform
objectives by approving the Central Bank Law, and by delegating to the Executive Branch the final
decisions on the Banking, SBIF and FOGADE draft laws, now merged into an overall Banking Law.
71.  The Bank acted quickly, and also consistently, in helping to complete the final design of the
financial reform and in supporting its implementation. It took a substantial risk in supporting a
reform largely dependent on Congressional actions, which were not included in the FSAL
conditionality. The decision to accept that risk, however, proved to be a correct one from the
standpoint of the actions taken by Congress before and after the completion of FSAL disbursements.
72.  Two main issues should be raised concerning Bank performance. The first is that experience
in the implementation of the Venezuelan FSAL, as well as in economic policy elsewhere, has shown
that financial sector reform, particularly concerning aspects like the deregulation of interest rates and
credit allocation, cannot succeed fully in the face of serious problems affecting related policy areas,
such as fiscal and exchange rate policies. A question can therefore be legitimately asked about
whether the FSAL should not have included explicit conditions related to the performance of such
policies, with due consideration for the institutional responsibilities of the IMF concerning them.
The second issue is that the competitive environment that the reform creates demands proper
institutions to carry out the bank supervision functions. The lack of implementation of the technical



28
assistance component that the reform properly devised for this purpose was a serious omission of the
reform implementation process. The FSAL should have given much higher priority to an early
implementation of this component of the program.
73. One additional question needs also to be answered concerning the overall performance of both
the government and the Bank: why it took 18 months more than expected at Board approval to
complete FSAL disbursements?. This delay can be allocated in almost equal proportions to each
tranche release; the release of the first tranche, upon effectiveness, was almost 6 months late, while
those of the second and third tranches were, respectively, about 12 and 18 months behind schedule.
The only policy issue which seems to have contributed to this delay because of less than satisfactory
results, particularly at the time of the third tranche release, was the country's overall macroeconomic
performance. This issue, however, can explain only a minor part of the 18-month delay. The lack
of evidence in the project files on other policy issues that might have contributed to the slippages,
appears to indicate that the main reasons for them were: a) the underestimation, by both the
Government and the Bank, of the time that would be required to prepare and approve the needed
studies and policy measures; and b) the lack of implementation of the FSAL Technical Assistance
component.
F. SUSTAINABILITY
74.  It is always risky to predict whether the thrust of economic reforms can be sustained over the
long term. In the case of Venezuela, however, in view of the consensus reached before the 1993
elections by Congress and the financial community reflected in the approval of the new Banking
Law, it can be reasonably expected that such objectives will continue to be supported by the country
as a whole in the foreseeable future. There is still the unavoidable risk of new policies reversing
some reform decisions, but the strengthening of BCV autonomy, by the recent BCV Law; other
aspects of the BCV and Banking Laws; and the prevailing national consensus in support of the
reform objectives, make it unlikely for a full counter-reform of this sector to succeed. Most likely,
the present financial and foreign exchange crisis will force the authorities to adopt macroeconomic
policies consistent with the objectives of the financial sector reform and to accelerate the reform
process in general and the strengthening of SBIF and FOGADE in particular.
G. MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
75.  The main findings and lessons learned can be summarized as follows:
a)   Whenever important economic reforms are well designed and fully owned by the
government, it is worthwhile for the Bank to accept substantial risks in order to support
such reforms, as it did through the FSAL analyzed in this PCR.
b)   In order to minimize such risks, it is also worthwhile to involve all interested parties
at a very early stage of preparation of the reform. In the case of Venezuela's financial
sector reform, substantial progress was made by expanding early the sense of ownership
to include Congress and the private financial community. However, a political crisis
in 1992-93 posed substantial obstacles to the working relationship between the Executive
and Legislative Branches of Government and delayed both approval of basic laws and
the development of an effective system of bank supervision.



29
c)   Support of a comprehensive structural adjustment prograrn through a package of global
and sectoral Bank loans, and the allocation of conditionality among them, can yield very
positive overall results.  In the case of Venezuela, the success achieved in the
deregulation of interest rates and other important sectoral reforms supported by the
FSAL, enabled the BCV to utilize monetary policy in a very effective way. The
macroeconomic situation, undoubtedly, would have been far worse in the absence of
financial sector reform.
d)   The FSAL experience also shows that to achieve the desired long-term effects of an
important financial sector reform, it is essential to both have a consistent approach in
all related economic policy areas and to strengthen institutions that have to enforce the
regulatory system.  To ensure consistent economic policies, it would have been
advisable to include in each loan conditionality the decisions in related policy areas that
would have maintained a sound macroeconomic framework as a safeguard against
systemic financial crisis. The institutional strengthening planned for the SBIF and
FOGADE should not have been delayed until Congress approved the new Banking Law.
The low priority that the borrower gave to the implementation of the technical assistance
component of the FSAL left the financial sector without a proper supervision when this
was most needed to reduce the risks of financial crisis.






31
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE






33
PART m: STATISTICAL DIFYRMA
Initial Executive Project Summary        November 15, 1989
Letter of Sectoral Policy                May 16, 1990
Negotiations                             May 11, 1990
Board Approval                           June 12, 1990
Loan Agreement                           Octover 15, 1990
Effectiveness                            December 7, 1990
Original Loan Closing                    June 30, 1993
Actual Loan Closing                      June 30, 1993
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMEN
Amount (US$ million)
FY91          FY92           FY93
Planned                       293             7
Actual                        146            71.23           76.04
Cumulative Amount    1        146           217.23          293.27



34
MISSION DATA
Month/Year      # of Weeks       # of Person     Staff Weeks
Preparation I    June 1989             2                1               2
Preparation II   October 1989          3               4                12
Appraisal       March 1990             2               6               11.2
Supervision I    November 1990         1                1               1
Supervision II   March 1991            1               3                3
Supervision Ell  July 1991            1/2              2                1
Supervision IV   June 1992             3               2              51/2
PCR             October 1993           1               2                2
STAFF INPUTIS
Staf Weeks
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    GRAND
_________                              ___   ~~~~~TOTAL
LENP       15.5    77.9                                             93.4
LENA                11.2                                            11.2
LENN                12.5   _         _ _                            12.5
SPN                          22.7     12.6      10.6      1.8       47.7
PCR                                                       4.9        4.9
TOTAL      15.5   101.6    22.7  -12.6   110.6            6.7  -  169.7



35
LIST OF RELATED LOANS
Approval Date
Agreement Date
Project Name                  Effective Date   Number          Amount
(In US$ millions)
Interest Support Loan               12/13/90         3279           150
12/14/90
12/14/90
Technical Assistance                06/12/90         3225           30
10/15/90
06/27/91
Financial Sector Adjustment         06/12/90         3224           300
10/15/90
12/07/90
Public Enterprise Loan              06/12/90         3223           350
10/15/90
12/07/90
Trade Policy Loan                   06/15/89         3092           353
10/16/89
11/03/89
Structural Adjustment Loan          06/15/89         3091           402
10/16/89
11/03/89






VENEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTWENT LWOAN
POLCY MATRIX                                                                   Page 1
Issues and objoctives   Actions token to date            By Boord preaentation!/                 By Second Tranche                   By Third Tranche
1. Liberalize A ration-
alize interost rates
A credit allocation.
1.1 Allow oarket                                    a). Policy Statement indicates    *   Modifications to BCV Law
determination of                                    that, as long as setting           submittod to Congress will
commrcial                                           intero-t rate limits is            allow full market determi-
interest rates.                                     required in the BCV Low,           notion of interest rates.
minim,w deposit (aximum
lending) rates will be
reduced (increaoed) it the
limit becomes binding.
b)o 8CV Board has issued reso-
lution setting the minimum
deposit rate A maximum
lending rate at 10X A 0OX,
reaspctively, which are
not binding by a wide
margin.
1.2 Reduce A ration-                                a). Policy Stat m nt indicates
alize pr-fersn-                                     that the Covernment's
tial interest                                       medium-term objective is
rates.                                              full liberalization of
interect rateo. Man-
while, oubsidized rates on
direct lending by
government-owned financial
intermediaries A other
preferential credits will
be reduced. Rates will be
based on the average non-
preferential lending rate
of the six largest cor-er-
cial banks. Preferential
intereat rate on agricul-
tural credits by com_er-
cial banks will be 85X of                                                                           PC
this reference rate, while
diroct preferential cred-                                                                           q 
its by DFIx will not bear                                                                            f
int r-xt lower than 565 9                                                    
90S of this refer-nco rate
for agricultural A othor                                                                            r,
activities, respectively.
b)* Policy Statement indicatos
that government-owned                                                                               0.



VSWJ1A -  nFWiCZAI. SICIUD M 5W    uN
pgucv ilUix                                                                     Pawe 2
losses mad .bJectivee   Actlees takes to date             By Derd pr_mtat.i.D/                     By Second Tranche            By Third Tranche
fiseacial Imteqliarile
(lC.ludi? SW)  ill   -
load to ret-ties flea.-
cial Iater_dirle at me
loee the the average coot
of r    _aerated dpsits ef
the beaklie system.
First-tier Iestitutioae
will abserb the getire
credit risk of tW final
borrowre.
1.3 Ascribe to DCV                                                                       *   Modifications to KY Law
the preroptive                                                                           submitted to Congrose will
to ao  In trest                                                                          grant full      *oclusive pre-
rate detrmine-                                                                           rogative to BCK  to set in-
tlen mcbsinl..                                                                           terest rate. of government-
for a*1l oPra-                                                                           owned financial interendi-
tie.  of fleas-                                                                         aries.
ceil letrm_di-
aries.
1.4 Public disclos-                                 DCV Board has Issued Resolu-         BCV Board will issue a direc-       BCV will publish In its           
ure of Interest                                 tion requiring daily publi-          tive to financial intoruedi-        monthly bulletin inter-st
rate structure,                                 cation by the OCY of the            aries requiring them to              rates offored by a range of
average A range of interost         announce A post their rates on    financial institutions.
rates observed In the oarket        all deposit A credit services,
(rates offered to the public,       specifying the mechani m for
interbank*, A on K V paper),        their calculation.
as vell as the rediscount
rate.
1.6 Reduce restric-                                 a)* Policy Statement Indicates                                           a   Govornment will issuo
tioen  on banks'                                    Government's medium_-ter                                                  decree reducing agricul-
di scrtloeary                                        policy of eliminating all                                                tural Iending requirement
allocation of                                       directed credit.                                                          on comeercial banks to
credit.                                                                                                                       12X of totnl portfolio.
b)- Government has lssued a
Pr-eidential Decree reduc-
ing agricultural lending
roquirement on commercial
banks from 22.6X to 17.5X
of total portfolio.
oq



VAEZUIA - FDMINIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOA
POUCY MATRIX                                                                   Page 3
Issues sad objectivoe   Actions taken to date           By Board pr-eentation.!                sy Second Tranche                    By Thlrd Tranche
2. Rotionalize public
sector participation
Is the financial
system
2.1 Co_ercial            SCY has inued resolu-                                       a). The 3 banks owned by the        *   All 3 banks will have
banking system      tion starting the pri-                                            BCV will have been brought          been divested from the
vatization of the 3                                              to point of snle.  All              public sector.
commercial banks it                                              valuation A tendor or bid-
owns,                                                            ding documents will have
been completed to the sat-
isfaction of the Bank A
issued to prospective
purchasers.
a). Policy Statement indicates    b)e Covernment will specify an    Plan being carried out in
intention to restructure           action plan to restructure    accordance with its time
SIV A its 4 regional banks         S1V A its 4 regional banks,   frame.
A to liquidate BANiAGRO.           including specification of
its new role;
b). Governmnt will issue a
resolution forbidding iIV     c)  Submission to Congress of
A BAiDACRO to engage in            Low to liquidate BANDACRO.
lending operations until
they are either restruc-
tured or liquidoted.
2.2 Developmet                                     a  Policy Statement outlines       a)  Submission to Congress of
baiing system                                      the formation of two               proposed low for the cr-o-
second-tier credit Insti-          tion of an agriculturol
tutions (for industry A            second-tier credit losti-
agriculture, respectively)         tution which would absorb
which will absorb tle              at l-ost I funds.
largest funds. It also
indicated the main steps      b)  Action plan to close            Plan being carried out in
to be taken to crete               iWACRO A form the agri-        accordance with its time
them,                              cultural credit institution   frame.
will be presented to the
Bank.
c)o Submission to Congress of
proposed low for the cr                                        l z
otion of an industrial
second-tier credit insti-
tution, which would absorb
at least 2 funds.
d)  Action plan to crete an         Plan being carried out in       0
industrial second-tier         accordance with its time        V



VENEUEIA - FDWIACIAL SECTOl ADJUSETT 1AMN
POLICY MAltIX                                                                     Page 4
lose" *ad *bjective.   Actions takon to date              By Board pr-oentation!/                   By Second Tranche                     By Thlrd Tranche
credit institution will be    fran.
presented to the Bank.
e)  Submission to Bank of stra-   *   Plan being carried out in
t gic plon Indicating role           accordaneo with its time
of CORPOINDUSTRIA A ICAP as          trm.
first-tier institutions A
an action plan for thoir
rostructuring.
2.3 Housing finance                                                                       Submission to Bank of action         Plan being carried out in
system.                                                                               plan to reotructur- A promote        accordance with its time
the financial independence of        tram.
BANAP, including phasing out of
ill new government, BCV or *x-
ternal sources of funding A now
policies in support of SALo.
3. Enhance the trans-
parency of BCV's
credit operations.                                                                                                                                               C
3.1 bCV credit to                                    *   BCV Board has issued reso-    a)o Miodifications to Public             *   Modifications to Bank Low
the Covernemnt                                       lution stating that no               Credit Low submitted to               submitted to Congress
should be sub-                                       zero-yield T-bills will be           Congress to permit issuanc-          will eliminate use of
ject to an all-                                      purchaoed at any tim                 of fixed-term negotiable              T-billa as instruments
encompnssing                                         after the date of Board              short-term T-billo; Low               for resorvo requir_eents.
ceiling.  BCV                                        prosontation,                        should permit merket deter-
should be free                                                                            mination of their price, A
to invest in                                                                              should not specify prefer-
Government debt                                                                           *ntial order of placement
of any mturity                                                                            of such bills among differ-
subject only to                                                                           ent types of econonic
this overall                                                                              agents.
cerdit eoiling.
b)* Modifications to bCV Low
submitted to Congress will:
(i) allow the BCV to pur-
chase fixed-term T-bills
not necessarily redee able
in the fiscal yoor in which
they are issuod, at the
average clearing price of
primary issue auctions or
in the secondary sarket; A
(ii) include 8CV holdings
of, or rights to, govern-                                         0
sent debt obtained through
debt equity swaps A any
tn



nEWZuELA - FDMNCIAL SECTOR ADJUST1EBT LOAt
""Cy MATRIX                                                                  Pe 
Isse and obJective.  Actions taken to data            By Board pr-eentation!/                By Second Tranche                    By Third Tranche
kind of foreign currency
deominated debt in the
overall credit limit to th
Cover_ent.  The lieit will
net be rais d from te
level contained in the cur-
rent low. On a tranositery
basis, purchase of govern-
moat debt obtained through
ongoing debt reduction A
restructuring prrogram will
not be inluded in the
cailing.
3.2 All subsidy pro-    Vol  e .f rediscount.    a)  Policy Statement outlinie      a)  BCV Board will issue reso-
gra _ _euld         hes been cut  lonifi-        Governm_ts -intention to           lution switching to market
flew throwh the    contly, with enly one          turn the rediscount window         valuation of collateral on
aotioe  l budget,    bank receiving funds.        into a facility for tempo-         rediscountc, advanceo A
* aheuld net                                      rary liquidity support             repurchase contrcts.
originate la                                      onc  open-m_arket capabili-
BCV'c opera-                                      ti-  are fully developed.    b)  BCV Board will issue reso-                                         $-
tlOSS.                                                                               Iution barring any new
Rediscount rate has      b)  BCV Board has issued reso-         purchase  of bank credit
been brought up to           lution linking rediscount          portfolios.
clos  to average             rate to yield on Kcv bills
market lending rate.         ouctioned.  The gneral         c)  BCY Board will  ssue re-o-
rediscount rate will be            lution requiring purchase
reviewed at least weekly,         of all private debt instru-
will not be get below the         meats by the BV from any
yield on BCV bills, A will         source at merkot value.  In
apply to all financial            no case will such instru-
lnter_sdiorio-  (including        mnto be bought at a yield
BAAP A FOCAPE).  A ape-            lese than that offered on
cial rediscount rate,             IV bills in the secondory
equal to 062 of the gen-          morket at the ti-  of pur-
erol rediscount rate, will        chase of the instruments.
be applied to rediscount-
ing of agricultural docu-     d)s Modifications to BCV Low
ments.  The Policy State-          submitted to Congre-s will
sent indicate. that the            restrict discounting,
special rediscount rate            redioeeunting, advancing or                                  01 
will be phased out In step         rep"rchse  contracts with
with agricultural prefer-         financial institutions to a
*ntial lending rates.             maximm dwration of J8
days.
c)o BCY Board has isseud in-
structions te Vice-
president of Meoetary
Operations establishing                                                                          b



IIEWEA - FUWICAL SECI   ADJIT               WI
PeuCt  ATRIX                                                                   pi. 6
losses an  Objectives   Actlos tabse  to date           By Bord pceseetation!/                  By Second Tranch-                    sy Third Tranche
the procedure for auto-
metic reforral of larg
borrowers (e.g., theo
with ototstndig KC
credit In excees of 253 of
their equity) to UIF for
rev ow.
d)  Folicy Statement ladicatee
that the Governmoet ell1
-sot fiasoce may huieg or
related subeidie with KCV
contributione or profits.
3.3 KCW shld nt                                    a)  BCV Board has isued a           a)*  Submilsion of program               FOGADE portfolio to be
manage e  ternsl                                   R- eoltio  mandating that           acceptable to the Bonk to            disngaged from KV.
portfolios;                                        *11 direct transactions of          diengoge all portfolios
th_ee portfolio.                                   a curitie. between the BCV          from BCV (except FICAM).
*hould sot be                                      A its  anaged portfolios
uae  to financo                                    take place at market            b)o Modifications of FOGADE Low
budget deficits.                                   value.  The only exception          submitted to Congress will
will be th  sale of secur-          allos it to  ansage ita own
itioe previously purchased         fund.
at fac- value which can be
sold to the BCV at face
value.
POVSA's portfolio at      b)  Submission of notice by
the 8CV has be" drawn         BCV to PDVSA of non-
down entirely.                renowal of manag eent
contract at nd-199.
4. RWer  te Regulatory
Structure.
4.1 Redefinen  the                                 Policy Statement describes the    *   Submission to Congress of
regulatory rol-                                division of labor betwoen               proposed now Law of SDIF to
a strengthen the                               institutions.                            Inter alia:  (i) reorga-
financial auton-                                                                       nizo SOIF as an *utonomous
omy of:  the                                                                           entity with its own sources
Centrol Bank                                                                           of revenue; A (;i) elimi-
(BCV), Ministry                                                                        nate  Hn's formal executive
of Finance (IH),                                                                       a decision-making functions
the Superinten-                                                                         in the operations of SOIF.
dency of Banks                                                                                                                                          0
(SBIF). A tho
deposit insur-
anc- corporation
(FOCADE).
00m
to



V4ENZLA - FINANCIAL SECTOR AbJtISNT LOAN
Pt-ICy MAlUIX                                                                 Page 7
Isoo"  ad objective    Actions takes to date            By Board pr..tation!/                  By Second Tranche                    By Third Tranche
4.2 Str,ogthe. pro-                                a). SOIF will lsue all the         a). SOIF will Issue A i-plement   *)  SBIF viII issue a n_
deetlal regla-                                     change. r.i red to                  1ll the chanos required to        chart of accounts which
tie". auitino.                                     tighten regulationq on:            regulete the wvlatioe of           will focilitate full dig-
& infermetlon                                      prwleloelag, lec   clau--          exchange risk, loan concen-        cloeure of the financial
discl eoure.                                       if ictec  roll-oevr of             tration lIlelt  A controls          conditin of banks.
credits A accrual of               of * ntre-group transac-
Interest, charge-offs.             tions. coesolidation of        b)  SOIF will issue audit
evaluation of invetm ont           accounts of financial              guidelines in accordance
portfolios, A evaluation           group., & uniform publica-         with the new chart of
of property received an            tieo  criteria of finaecial        accounts.
collateral.                        statement.
c)  S8If will start Issuing a
b). ShIF will issue irstrec-       b)* Submission to Congress of           monthly bu4letin disclos-
tie., to banks to sok              proposed ne  Law of SBIF to         ing the financial coedi-
auditors to inclue                 tighten norm, on capital            tioe  of banks A the over-
assesr mnt of lean cl-s-i-         requiremento A lending con-         oll condition of the
tication A concentration          centration, A widen the              financial systm.
In audito.                         Scope of sanctions & fine. d
d) Miodification. to Bank Law
*ubsittod to Congress
*ill be propoed to
ensure conoiatency with
the new proposed SBIF Law
and to eliminate any
r emining r*dundancies.
S. Improving the Finan-
cial Strengt of
Intfemediaries A
Uporading the Mechan-
ism for Debling with
Problem Sae..
5.1 *,iwm  flaoncial                               .   SSIF will undertake stud-      *   Completion of all studies
c,editien of                                       ioo of the financial con-          undertaken by the SOBF to
beaks.                                            dditio  of *11 private              the Bank's satisfaction.
commercial banks A
selocted mortge banks A
finance companies.  The                                                                               >
studies will focus on:
portfolio review, fixed
*sset valuation, losn
concentration, A foreign                                                                           0
exchange lesses.
C.2 lncrase provi-                                 a). SIF will issue directive    a)  Review bankp' compliance           Review banks' compliance with _
siona for loan-                                    to banks to establish a            with loan-loss provision,       loan-loss provision A write- 
losse, foroign                                     general loan loss provi-           Establish additional pro-       off requirs_sts .
2Q
10



VB UELA - FWKCIL UCIU  wU1I  LO
.~ FMTmim
u   sad Objectives   Ati.. tab.. to date                 ly Board peessmtatlma/                 *y asend tr-eeh                      By third traech.
encheaga legeen                                     ale. of at least 1.52 of            wiaile   or write-off
a chaer-_ff bad                                     lea. by bee.bew 19   A              remiremeat.  fo r loetitu-
_me".                                               2X of I a.  by Jon  191.            tie" thot are Is vwuIwr-
Specific prevalos-e will            *ble pesltiona a4cording to
be cousted aainst th                tbe stisds performed   der
gsneial prowl le..                  5.1.
b)- SBIF will lom diretive          b)  S5IF will preparo A submit
to banks to write off               to the Sank a program for
loans post due by more             the smortizatloe by Inter-
then 3J moths by Juno               medirao. of foreign
1991.                               exchange losoe" assessed
under 6.1.
*.2 Establish                                       *   Policy Statament Indicatow                                          *   Modifiestions to Sank Law
so*nder require-                                   that the MN *ill stop                                                    submitted to Congress
sents for e"try.                                    issuing licenses for                                                    will increase minimum
opening now banks until                                                 capital requirements for
the SBIF is strongthene.                                                entry to at least tho
equivalent of USSO mil-
lion for commercial A
mortgago banks.
5.4 Improve the                                     o   Policy Statement define.        *)o Modification to FOGADE's        )  Rovise FOGADE's RegIl-
enisting meoh-                                      the policy A procedures             Low will bo submitted to            mento Intern* In accord-
saim  for *on-                                     with regard to managing             Congrosn to:  (i) more              ance with principles
aging A solving                                     bank crises.  FOGADE will           clearly define its role in          established in Annoxes
banking crise.                                      be provided with groater            the manag emnt of banking           ViI A viii.
capacity to handlo crises.          crises; (;i) strengthen its
Policy Statement outilno           mechanisms for rosolution       b)- Monthly Capital contribu-
progrm of technical,                of crise; (iii) strengthen          tions to FOCADE will havo
legal, Institutional A              its financial position; A           boen *mde by the Treosury
financial upgrading of              (iv) enhance tho tranaspar-         after January 199d. By
FOGADE.                             oncy of its operations A            third tranche, total con-
financial condition.                tributions should amount
to at l-ost SOX of esti-
b)  FOCADE will com_ission              mated losses of FOGADE.
study to dotormino sorkot
value of its assots under      c)- Proesntation to Bnnnk of   w >
managemont/sale.                    progroa  to complete the   -  z
recapitalization of         VD I1
c)  FOCADE will have under-             FOCADE.  Program will       0 
taken campaign to publicizo         tkeo into account loses    l.
the typos of accounts A             uncovered in the otudy A  0
institutions that ar-               will contain tiing of
covered, & its maximum              capital replenishment by  5
coverago limit,                     the Troasury.



VENEZUELA - FICIAL SECTOR ADJUSTI4T LOA
POLIC  MATRIX                                                                  Page 9
leun. and objectives   Actions takon to date           By Board proesntation!i                By Second Tranche                      By Third Tranche
d)*e Modifications to Bank Low
submitted to Congress
will establish the pro-
cedureu A the role of the
various government agen-
cei in solving bank
crie., as outlined in
Annex VII.
6. Enhance the cospeti-
tive nature A finan-
cial strength of
financial intermedi-
aries.
6.1 Pormit univorsal                                                                                                        a   Modifications to Sank Low
banking A pro-                                                                                                             submitted to Congress
mote consolida-                                                                                                             *;11 allow universal
tien of fins.-                                                                                                              banking A introduce pro-
cial Intormdi-                                                                                                             cedures to facilitate
sries.                                                                                                                     mergers A consolidation
(e.g., of specializod
banks into universal           un
banks).
6.2 Unify capital                                                                                                           *   Modifications to Sank Law
requirements of                                                                                                             submitted to Congress
comerc ial                                                                                                                  will establish tho sam
banks, mortgage                                                                                                             minimum 6X *quity:total
banks, A finance                                                                                                            aseoto ratio for commer-
companies.                                                                                                                  cial bonks, ortgago
banks A finance compa-
nies.  The Law should
permit the future intro-
duction of a risk-
woighted system (includ-
ing some contingnci*es)
for the computation of
the asset basn.
6.3 Liboralizo for-                                                                                                         *   Modifications to Sank Law W
oign ownership                                                                                                              submitted to Congreos
of financial                                                                                                                will:  (I) allow up to       .
institutions.                                                                                                               29! foroign ownorship of
commercial banks (or 39   ,.,,
with the Executive'o
approval); (ii) allow 
Executive to authorizo
foreign institution. to    *
W



