Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePot No. P-5304-VE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
MAY 21, 1990
Thi document bas a resticted dstribution and may be nsed by recipients only in the performance of
their offkial dudtes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Bolivar (Bs)
US$1     Bs 43
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANAP           -  National Savings and Loans Bank
r4ANDAGRO       - Agricultural Development Bank
BCV             -  Central Bank of Venezuela
BIS             - Bank for International Settlements
BIV             - Venezuelan Industrial Bank
CORPOINDUSTRIA  -  Small and Medium Industry Development Corporation
DPI             -  Development Finance Institution
FCA             - Agricultural Credit Fund
FDF             -  Fru4t Development Fund
FICAM           - Foreign Exchange Guarantee Fund
FINEXPO         - Export Finance Fund
FINTEC          -  Industry and Technology Development Fund
FIV             - Venezuela Investment Fund
FOGADE          - Deposit Insurance Corporation
FONCAFE         -  Coffee Fund
FONCREI         -  Industrial Credit Fund
FONDUR          - Urban Development Fund
IBRD            -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAP            -  Institute of Credit for Farming and Cattle
IDB             -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFC             -  International Finance Corporation
IMF             -  International Monetary Fund
IVSS            -  Social Security Institute
LSP             -  Letter of Sectoral Policy
MH              - Ministry of Finance
PDVSA           - Venezuelan Petroleum Company
S&Ls            -  Savings and Loans
SBIF            -  Superintendency of Banks
TA              -  Technical Assistance
T-bill          -  Treasury Bill



FO)R OMCIAL USE ONLY
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  i
PART  I  - THE  ECONOMY .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .          1 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  I
The Initial Adjustment Program  ....  .  .  .    . .                1
The Current Adjustment Program  ....  .  .  .    . .                3
Status of Negotiations with Commercial Bank Creditors   . . . . . . .  3
Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Policy Framework  . . . . . . . . . . .  4
PART II - FINANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE AND SIZE . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Structure of the Financial System   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Monetary Aggregates and Financial Deepening   . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Monetary Policy:  Instruments and Constraints   . . . . . . . . . . .  9
PART III - AIN FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Excessive Government Intervention in the Determination of
Interest Rates and Credit Allocation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Excessive Public Sector Participation in the Financial System   . . . 13
Distortions in the Financial System caused by BCV Operations  . . . . 16
Weaknesses of the Institutional and Regulatory Structure  . . . . . . 18
Weak Financial Condition of Financial Intermediaries  . . . . . . . . 19
Commercial Banks .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .   . 19
Mortgage Banks and S&Ls  .... .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .   . 21
Capital Markets   .... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . .......  .  .  .  .   . 22
PART IV - THE PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN . . . . . . . . 23
Rationalization and Liberalization of Interest Rates and Credit
Allocation ........................... . 24
Reduction of Public Sector Participation in the Financial System  . . 27
Rationalization of the BCV's Credit Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Reform of the Regulatory Framework and Improvements in Bank
Supervision  .... .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 31
Improving the Strength of Financial Intermediaries and Upgrading the
Mechanisms for Dealing with Problem Banks  . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Enhancing the Competitive Environment for Financial Intermediaries . 35
Technical Assistance Component  ....  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 36
This report was prepared by: Felipe Morris (Task Manager), Ignacio Mas, and
Mark Dorfman (LATTF) based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Venezuela between March 4 and Marc;- 24, 1990. Ramon Rosales
(Consultant), Jacqueline Saettone (LATTF), and Claudio Skarmeta (Consultant)
also participated in the mission and contributed to the report. Part I and
Annex I were drafted by Dan Morrow (LA3C1); and Part VI and Annex X were
drafted by K. Uchimura (LA3C1).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART  V  - LOAN  FA S    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   37
Loan Amount, Borrower and Implementing Agency   . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Letter of Sectoral Policy   ....  .  .  .  .   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 37
Loan Disbursement and Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Benefits and Risks  .... .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 38
PART VI - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OP=EINS . . . . . . . 39
History of Bank Assistance  ....  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 39
Bank Operational Strategy   ....  .  .  .  .   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 40
Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending ............... . 40
IFC Operations  .... .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 41
PART VII - COLLABORATION WITH THE I .I ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..   . 42
PART VIII- RECOMKENDATION ..................... . 42
TMXT TABLES
1. Structure of the Financial System ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  8
2. Real Interest Rates and Financial Depth, 1980-89  ... .  .  .  .    .  8
3. Comparison of Current Versus Proposed Interest Rates  ... .  .   . 13
I. Key Macroeconomic Indicetors ....  .    . ..... .  .  .  .  .  .   . 43
II. Supplementary Loan Data Sheet .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
III.  Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
IV.  Policy Matrix  ........  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  .  .  63
V.  Technical Assistance Component .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  73
Table 1:  Summary of Technical Assistance Component Costs  . . 78
VI. Changes in Prudential Regulations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
VII.  Mechanisms for Handling Bank Crises  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
VIII.  Institutional Strengthening of FOGADE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
IX.  Program for the Elimination of Managed Portfolios at the BCV . . 94
X.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Venezuela . . . . . . . . . . 99
IBRD #22154



VMNEUELA
nNCIA  SECTOR ADsTMWNT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUNMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Venezuela
Amount:         US$300 million equivalent
Terms:          15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Loan
Objectives:    The main objectives of the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan are to: Mi) liberalize the financial policy environment
(interest rates, allocation of credit, foreign ownership,
universal banking, etc.); (ii) reduce the Government's direct
role in financial intermediation (privatization and liquidation
of public banks, consolidation of DFIs, rationalization of
housing finance policy, limiting the BCV's role in the financial
support of institutions to bank liquidity and monetary management
needs); and (iii) strengthen the competitiveness and financial
condition of intermediaries (adequate prudential regulations and
supervision, capital standards, mechanisms for handling problem
banks).
Loan
Descr1etion:   The loan objectives would be achieved bys  (i) completely
liberalizing commercial bank interest rates except for
agricultural lending; (ii) substantially reducing the interest
rate subsidy and the portfolio requirement for commercial bank
lending to agriculture; (iii) simplifying the plethora of rates
offered by government-owned development finance institutions by
establishing two preferential rat_s at levels substantially above
current levels; (iv) partially liberalizing foreign ownership
of financial institutions; (v) privatizing 3 commercial banks
owned by the BCV; (vi) liquidating the Agricultural Development
Bank (BANDAGRO; 3? of assets of commercial banking system) and
restructuring the Industrial Bank (BIV; the largest public
commercial bank, with 112 of assets of commercial banking system)
and its 4 regional banks; Cvii) streamlining the DFI subsector
with the consolidation of at least 5 funds into two new second-
tier  credit   institutions;   (viii)   revamping  prudential
regulations, supervision, and the mechanisms for dealing with
problem banks; (ix) promoting the transparency of banksI
financial  statements  as  a  mechanism  for  forcing  the
recapitalization of weak institutions; and (x) reorienting BCV
credit towards liquidity support of solvent institutions and
promoting the use by the BCV of T-bills for open market
operations.
Benefits:       The proposed operation would increase the overall efficiency of
the financial system and thus enhance its ability to finance
investment and growth. This would result from increased resource



- ii -
mobilization, improved credit allocation, and a lower cost of
credit. The proposed reforms will contribute to these goals by:
(i) enhancing competition in the financial sector with the
liberalization of interest rates, credit allocation, and the
participation of foreign banks; (ii) enhancing the transparency
of the condition of intermediaries and depositor confidence in
the intermediaries through improved prudential regulation and
supervision of banks; (iii) reducing inefficiencies created by
the excessive Government participation in the banking system;
and (iv) providing adequate mechanisms for dealing with banking
distress.
Risks:          Given the complex nature and political implications of many of
the proposed reforms, there is a risk of some delays in the
implementation of the reform program. However, the momentum
created by the macroeconomic reforms successfully carried out
to date, coupled with the recognition within the administration,
the Congress, and financial markets of the need for the reform,
will help sustain the process. A special coordinating unit has
been created within the BCV which, among other functions, will
garner support for the reforms. In order to reduce potential
volitical opposition to the reforms, high-ranking Government
officials have been holding discussions with key members of
Congress to ensure support for the proposed legal changes. A
further risk, although slight in the case of Venezuela, is that
failure to maintain macroeconomic stability could endanger the
success oi financial sector reform measures.  To reduce this
risk, loan conditionality will stipulate that for each tranche
release the Bank shall be satisfied that the macroeconomic
framework is consistent with the financial sector reform
objectives.
Estimated
Disbursements: Disbursement of the entire loan is expected to be completed
ithin three years of loan effectiveness. Loan proceeds will
be disbursed under the following categories: (i) financing of
debt reduction (25S of the proceeds or US$75 million), tii)
three tranches for import financing (first tranche US$71 mill. %n,
second tranche US$71 million, and third tranche US$76 million),
and (iii) Technical Assistance component (US$7 million). Funds
for debt-reduction would be available upon loan effectiveness
and agreement betweer. the Bank and the Government on a debt-
reduction program satisfactory to the Bank. After February, 28,
1991 unused funds for debt-reduction can be reallocated in equal
portions to the three import financing tranches. Each tranche
for import financing will be disbursed upon fulfillment ot
specific conditions.   The first tranche is expected to be
disbursed soon after loan effectiveness. The second Pnd third
tranches are expected to be disbursed after successive six-
month intervals. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$60
million would be available for eligible expenditures incurred
after March 31, 1990.   Funds for technical assistance are
expected to be disbursed within three years.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
OF TEE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
FOR FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Venezaela for US$300 million equivalent on standard IBRD terms in support of
a program of Financial Sector Adjustment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.          In the period since the first oil price shock in 1973, Venezuela has
failed to realize the potential for economic development offered by its petroleum
and other natural resources. The reasons for this disappointing performance have
been fourfold.   First, Venezuela lacked a coherent and viable long-term
development app-'ach and strategy. Instead, there was a steady increase in the
extent and complexity of direct economic controls by ;he state. This led to
inLreasing structural rigidities and an inability to generate sufficient growth
in productive capacity to sustain the growing population. Venezuela's non-oil
productive sectors grew up behind high barriers of protective tariffs and
restrictions, which left them ill-equipped to compete externally or to utilize
resources efficiently. Venezuela's economy was governed by a highly complex and
intertwined set of regulations and subsidies, which affected virtually all modern
sector activities  and introduced innumerable  distortions.    Second,  as a
consequence of those policies, Venezuela has remained dependent on petrolpum,
which provided 95Z of its export earnings before the 1986 collapse in price, and
still accounts for over 702 of earnings.  Third, Venezuela failed to addr'   the
problems of poverty adequately and develop effective policies and serv   a in
the social sectors.   Finally, Venezuela's public institutions and - blic
administration remained weak and could not provide the basis nee'4d for
modernization of government operations, in support of a sustainable mediua-term
development strategy.
3.          Wher the newly-elected Administration of President Perez took office
on February 2, 1989, the economic situation was untenable:  operating reserves
were depleted, imports were accelerating in expectation of devaluation, and the
Central Bank had built up arrears to Venezuelan nationals, as it stopped
providing foreign exchange at the overvalued official rate. Furthermore, there
were shortages of price-controlled staples, such as bread, coffee, sugar, and
rice.   The new Government almost immediately initiated a sweeping program of
reforms, not only to correct the immediate imbalances and distortions, but also
to redefine the role of the state in the economy, increase the role of market
forces in the allocation of resources, and create an open, competitive economic
environment, which would stimulate the efficient growth of the non-oil productive
sectors. To address the problem of persistent poverty, the Government moved to
convert indirect subsidies into targeted social programs.
The Initial Adjustment Program
4.          The basic components of the initial adjustment program included:
replacing the multiple exchange rate system by a unified market-determined



- 2 -
exchange rate system (under which the bolivar immediately depreciated to about
Bs 36 per US$1.00, compared to th. previous official rate of Bs 14 per US$1.00);
rationalizing and liberalizing the trade regime, by reducing the coverage of
quantitative restrictions, setting a maximum tariff -ate of 802, and eliminating
exonerations of tariffs; allowing most interest rates to be determined by market
forces, which led to a substantial increase in deposit and most lending rates;
increasing the prices for petroleum products in the domestic market and for most
public utilities; dismantling most of the domestic price control system; and
curtailing fiscal expenditures.
5.          From the beginning of the adjustment program, it was recognized that
its success in restoring growth on a sustainable basis would require adequate
external financing to permit increases in imports, investments, and international
reserves during the period of adjustment toward a more competitive export sector
and efficient import substitution, as well as toward higher domestic savings.
As a first step, the Government sought the support of the international financial
institutions. Based on the strength of the adjustment program, the IMP responded
with approval in March 1989 of a First Credit Tranche purchase of SDR 343 million
and approval in June 1989 of a three-year Extended Fund Facility of SDR 3.7
billion (about US$4.8 billion equivalent). Likewise, the World Bank approved
in June 1989 a Structural Adjustment Loan of US$402 million and a Trade Policy
Loan of US$353 million.
6.          The economic program initiated in February 1989 has succeeded iin
correcting major internal and external imbalances in less than a year. On the
internal side, the overall deficit of the consolidated, non-financial public
sector has declined from 8.32 of GDP in 1988 to an estimated 1.42 of GDP in 1989.
Performance on the external side was also strong: the current account balance
shifted from a deficit of 7.5Z of GDP in 1988 to an estimated surplus of 4.62
of GDP in 1989.  This surplus was the result of a 201 increase in oil export
earnings, due to strong oil prices, a surge of over 302 in non-oil exports, and
a 372 decline in imports, the latter due to both the devaluation of the bolivar
and a sharp decline in non-oil GDP of 9.32. This current account outcome, helped
by significant capital repatriation in recent months, made it possible to begin
to rebuild international reserves from the dangerously low level of end-1988.
These significant improvements in both public finances and the balance of
paymrnts, together with a tight monetary policy, have led to a rapid
stabilization of inflation and exchange rates. Domestic inflation initially
accelerated from a 1988 annual rate of 242 to an annual rate of 1502 during the
first half of 1989, due to the devaluation and increases in Government-
controlled prices. However, the annual inflation rate in the second half of 1989
fell to only 322, and is expected to fall below 302 during 1990. In a similar
pattern, the bolivar continued to depreciate slightly following the sharp
devaluation in March 1989, from about Bs 36 per US$1.00 to about Bs 43 per
US$1.00 in October 1989. But, since that time, it has remained stable, in the
ran-e of Bs 42 to Bs 46 per US$1.00.
7.          The short-run cost of correcting these imbalances has been high.
In 1989, total GDP declined by 8.12, and non-oil GDP, by 9.32. Thi' sharper-
than-expected decline reflected:  (a) overshooting the fiscal target of a 42
deficit, due in part to delays in recognizing exchange losses on letters of
credit from the earlier multiple exchange rate system and in legislative approval
of the investment program; (b) a sharp reduction in inventories, which had been
built up in 1988 in anticipation of devaluation and decontrol of prices; and (c)



- 3 -
the sluggish response of private sector investment to the new policy environment.
However, provided that the external financing constraint can be alleviated, it
is expected that growth can reoume in 1990 givens  increasing private sector
confidence in a more stable economic environment; an end to inventory reductions,
as stocks reach normal levels; an increase in public sector investment,
consistent with a fiscal deficit target of lee than 22 of GDP; and increased
utilization of idle capacity, which will require more imports of intermediate
goods.   But it should be recogaized that, given the severity of the 1289
recession, even healthy growth in 1990 would not restore output to the 1988
levels.
The Current Adjustment Program
8.          The Government has continued to adequately fulfill the macroeconomic
performance targets established under the EFF, and on May 14, 1990, the IMF
approved the purchase under the EFF associated with the December 1989 performance
criteria. Also, in recent months, the Government has taken further steps in the
reform program initiated in early 1989. In March, the Government announced thAt,
consistent with its schedule for trade reform over a two-year period, as agreed
under the Trade Policy Loan, the maximum tariff rate was reduced from 802 to 50?,
and the share of imports covered by non-tariff barriers was further reduced.
These steps, together with recent measures to eliminate barriers to foreign
investors, should over the medium term stimulate investment in competitive
exports and efficient impo_.  substitution.  Having completed significant steps
toward a macroeconomic  policy environment   which promises  to achieve a
sustainable growth path, the Government is now turning its attention to the
sectoral, institutional, and legal reforms necessary to support the supply
response to the macroeconomic adjustment program. Areas of priority are the
programs of financial sector and public enterprise reform, both to be supported
by Bank loans. A third critical area in which the Government plans to begin a
reform effort is agricultural trade, pricing and regulatory policy.
Status of Negotiations with Commercial Bank Creditors
9.          As noted above, restoration of growth in 1990 and beyond will also
depend on sufficient external financing. For this purpose, Venezuela had been
negotiating with its commercial bank creditors on an agreement to reduce the
burden of the existing debt overhang. After prolonged negotiations, on March 20,
1990, the Government and members of its Bank Advisory Committee announced
agreement in principle on the basic terms of options to be offered to the banks
holding about US$20 billion of Venezuela's external debt. The options to be
offered to the creditor banks are: principal discount bonds and par bonds with
below-market interest rates, which would have principal fully collateralized and
interest payments partly collateralized; temporary interest reduction bonds,
which would have partial collateralization of interest payments during the five
years of below-market interest rates; cash buybacks at a fixed price, taking into
account the secondary market price for existing debt; and debt conversion bonds,
in proportion to purchases of new money bonds.   Soon after achieving this
agreement in principie, the Government cleared its arrears with the commercial
banks. As soon as the term sheets for these options &re finalized, the creditor
banks will be asked to indicate how much of their existing claims would be
offered for buyback or exchange under these options. Once this final package
is known, Venezuela would formally seek Bank and IMF support, as well as that
of official bilateral sources, for this program of debt and debt service



- 4 -
reduction. The impact of this proposed program is discussed briefly in the
following section.
Medium-Term Macroeconomic and Policy Framework
10.         The Government's medium-term strategy is designed to restore high
rates of growth of output and employment in a context of low inflation and viable
balance of payments.  This growth would be achieved through a fundamental
restructuring and diversification of the economy which would result from the
implementation of deep-rooted structural reforms aimed at:  (a) reducing the
scope of the public sector in the economy through fiscal restraint, deregulation,
and privatization of selected public enterprises; (b) enhancins the efficiency
of resource use by liberalizing trade, allowing prices to move to economic
levels, and redefining the relationship between the government and public
enterprises; and (c) strengthening the financial sector and increasing its
efficiency. The objective is to strengthen national savings, encourage private
investment, and increase economic efficiency.
11.        Venezuela's medium-term macroeconomic and policy framework, taking
into account the possible impact of the proposed debt reduction program, is
described by the projections presented in Annex I.   These are the Bank's
preliminary revisions of projections which had been agreed among the Government,
the Bank, and the IMF in late 1989. These revised projections show a smaller
financing gap (prior to debt reduction) than the projections of late 1989 due
not only to the assumption of slightly higher oil prices but also to the initial
impact of the adjustment program in boosting non-oil exports and encouraging
capital repatriation (which was apparently used to pay off overextended credit
lines and thereby reduces projected interest payments). Discussions will begin
soon between the IMF and the Government on targets for the 1990/91 program year
under the EFF, and the outcome of these discussions, as well as any further
changes in tne medium-term external outlook, may require updating of these
projections. The scenario presented is consistent with annual GDP growth of
about 5% during 1990-95, and is predicated on the path of roughly constant real
oil prices now projected by the Bank.  The scenario assumes the Government's
continued commitment to the ongoing reform program. Also, the scenario assumes
that the proposed program of debt and debt servic. reduction is successfully
implemented, with virtually all of the eligible debt offered for buyback or
exchange; this results in lower interest paymtents to the commercial banks on the
order of US$700-800 million enually.Y Given this assumption, the proposed debt
reduction program closes the financing gap which would otherwise arise. Finally,
the scenario already takes into account the proposed Bank lending, including the
two adjustment loans in FY90 and including the possible Bank support for the debt
reduction program which is necessary to achieve this scenario.
12.         The most notable features of this scenario, over the next five years,
are as follows:
(a)   Gross fixed investment would need to grow from about 20% of GDP in
1990 to about 25% by 1995, with an increasing share of private sector
J/ The scenario arbitrarily assumes a particular allocation of existing debt
among options; the results would not change significantly for other
allocations.



investment; gross n.tional savings also would need to grow to about
262 of GDP by 1995s
(b)   Per capita private consumption would grow at an annual average rate
of 1.32 over 1990-95;
(c)   The consolidated public sector moves to a fiscal surplus, reflecting
rising domestic revenues from the petroleum sector and declining
external interest payments as a share of GDP. If this were to occur,
the already small stock of public domestic debt would be
progressively reduced, and the public sector would be a net lender
to the private sector;
(d)   Non-oil exports would grow at a rate of 10-202 per annum in nominal
dollar terms (compared to over 302 growth in 1989); nevertheless,
the share of petroleum sector exports would remain high because non-
oil exports are starting from a small base;
(e)   The current account as traditionally defined by the Central Bank
would be almost balanced. with deficits of less than 12 of GDP in
most years before 1995.   However, deducting the imputed private
interest income on assets held abroad which is counted in these
figures, the deficit would be on the order of 2S of GDP.  This
favorable current account position reflects the impact of the assumed
debt reduction plan, without which the current account deficit would
increase by about 1.32 of GDP;
(f) Gross international reserves, including gold at US$300 per ounce,
would be rebuilt to the level of 7-8 months of imports, which is
prudent given the country's dependence on volatile oil revenues and
the Government's intention to maintain a floating exchange rate
regime and an open capital account. Such reserve accumulation, given
the projected increasing oil prices, would provide an essential
cushion against temporary oil price declines.   Such a level of
reserves is essential to provide confidence to foreign exchange and
domestic financial markets and thereby to sustain the recovery of
investment. Based on fluctuations in the price of oil during the
1980s, one standard deviation reduction in the projected price of
oil in the 1990-94 period is equivalent to US$4.6 per barrel. Such
a reduction in a single year would reduce Venezuela's export earnings
by almost US$3 billion in that year, equal to one third of the
average level of liquid reserves projected for the 1990-94 period.
(g)   1LT capital inflows would be 3-52 of GDP in 1990-93; this would
finance   the   current   account   deficit,   the   buyback   and
collateralization of some part of the commercial bank debt under the
proposed debt reduction program (which will cost US$3-4 billion),
and the essential build-up of international reserves. By 1994, as
the trade surplus grows toward 32 of GDP, MLT capital inflows would
begin to fall toward 22; and
(h)   Venezuela's external debt ratios,  following the debt reduction
program, would fall significantly to levels consistent with



sustainable growth: tEe debt service to export ratio would decline
from almost 40% in 1988 to about 20% in 1991 and beyond.
13.         In implementing this macroeconomic framework, particular attention
must be given to the following.  First, there must be a policy environment
conducive to the growth of private investmert, which would generate increased
demand for credit from the banking system and require expanded imports of capital
and intermediate goods. An important thrust of the Government's program of
deregulation and liberalization has been to create such an environment. Defining
in a more limited way the role of public Qnterprises, privatizing selected public
enterprises, and ensuring efficient provision of essential services (such as
ports and telecommunications) by the relevant public enterprises are also
essential and would be supported by the public enterprise reform loan. Second,
there must be an efficient and sound financial system to effectively channel the
investment of both private and public savings. Creation of such a financial
system is the objective of the financial sector reform program. Third, to ensure
that public sector resources are not wasted on uneconomic investments by the
public enterprises, a new and sound relationship must be established between the
Government and the public enterprises. A framework must be created, in which
the investment decisions of those enterprises (other than natural monopolies)
are subject to market discipline and the natural monopolies are guided by
appropriate regulations. This is the thrust of the public enterprise adjustment
program. Fourth, to ensure that the expansion of net credit to the private sector
does not simply lead to capital flight, the Central Bank must maintain
sufficiently attractive real interest rates on domestic assets and avoid
overvaluation of the exchange rate. And, fiWth, careful attention must be given
to the management of international reserves to ensure that, during periods in
which the price of oil is at or above its expected trend levels, reserves are
accumulated to provide a cushion against future price declines. Achieving all
of these objectives will require careful and continuous monitoring. For this,
the existence of the IHF's EFF program will make an important contribution in
the near-term. Under the proposed operation, maintenance of a macroeconomic
fXamework consistent with the objectives of the a'.ustment program is a condition
of effectiveness and second and third tranche release.
14.         In addition to the crucial contribution made by the international
financial institutions (IFIs) to the development of the policy framework
described above, the IFIs have an important role to play in the financing
required for returning Venezuela to a sustainable growth path. The relative role
of the IFIs must be viewed in the context of the proposed debt and debt service
reduction program now under negotiation. Under the proposed program, the major
contribution of the commercial banks would be to relinquish claims equal in
present value terms to 25-30% of the face value of their existing claims. (There
is an option under the program for the banks to contribute new money, but the
uaximui amount of new money (net of rights for debt-equity swaps at par) is
US$700 million.)  During 1990-95, the program would reduce by about US$600
million annually the net financing required by the growth path in the scenario
presented in Annex 3.  Given this assumed level of debt and debt service
reduction, the remaining annual average .f net disbursements during 1990-92 would
be about US$3.8 billion and during 1993-95 only about US$1.2 billion. During
1990-92, the World Bank would contribute about 22% and the IMF about 38% of these
net disbursements; these figures include estimates of additional lending to
support the debt and debt service reduction program. These net disbursements
would not only support the policy reform programs to which they are directed but



-7-
also make possible the imp;ementation of the debt reduction program and the
continued build-up of Intornatiohal reserves to prudent levels. Over 1990-95,
the Bank (based on the current lending program) would contribute about 242 and
the Fund, 182. Given the fact that the Bank had no exposure to Venezuela in
1989, the planned increases in net disbursements by the Bank would not be
excessives although the Bank's share of the reduced debt stock would rise to
about 121 in 1998, projected debt service to the Bank in that year would be only
2.2Z of total ezports.
PART U - INANCIAL SECTOR STRUCTURE AND SIZE
Structure of the Financial System
15.         The Venezuelan financial system is conceptually based on a system
of specialized bankcing 'hereby different types of institutions have different
functions.  Commicia'l'banks wevet  r)nceived to borrow and Lend short-term for
working capital aiid oth - - hort-term needs. Finance companies were to lend for
fixed assets and CoLqfmer goods as well as support the development of commercial
companies. Mortgage banks were to borrow using long term instruments and lend
for construction, home improvement and expansion, and home and commercial
property purchases. Savings and loans (S&Ls) were to also borrow long term and
lend for consumer purChases of homes. In practice, there is a de facto universal
banking system since financial inatitutions have formed financial groups whereby
a group offers clienet a full array of financia' services and diversification
options.
16.         Table 1 depicts the structure of the financial system as of end-
1989. Presently, there are 41 commercial banks, 16 mortgage banks, 29 finance
companies, and 20 S&Ls. There ate also 31 leasing companies, 3 pension funds
around 27 liquid asset funds; brokerage houses, and foreign exchange offices.2
As the table shows, commercial banks are the most important banking institutions,
accounting for 73S of assets of the financial system. From 1987 through 1989,
commercial banks and finance companies increased their share of assets, funds
attracted and credits, while rortgage banks and S&Ls decreased theirs.
17.         The 9ystem's six largest commercial banks account for 57Z of the
total assets of the system and 6S3  of total bank deposits.  These commercial
banks are part of the six largest finaucial groups which are dominant in the
financial sector. This concentration tas increased during the past two years.
Below this group are 15 mediua-sized commercial banks which hold between 1* and
4.91 of deposits each (29Z of the total), and 20 small banks which hold less than
12 of deposits each (SZ of the total), with less than 11 of deposits.
21    These latter institutions are not included in the percentages indicated
in this section.



Table 1: STRUCTURE OF THE FINANCIAL SYSTEM
(Billions of Bolivares, as of 12131/89)
No. of
insti-     Assets         DeRosits         Eauity     Lever,
tutions     Total   X     TTotal ZI?                     ageA'
Commercial banks:      41     549.3   73      385.8   71      31.7   78      16.3
Private national      31     454.4   61      355.4   66      26.4   65      16.2
Private foreign        2       4.8    1        2.3    0       0.5    1       8.3
Public                 8      90.0   12       28.0    5       4.7   12      17.8
Mortgage banks         16      69.9    9       58.9   11       3.2    8      20.5
Finance companies      29      84.4   11       64.3   12       5.9   14      13.2
Savings and loans      20      45.2    6       32.6    6         -    -         -
System total    106      748.8  100      541.6  100      40.8  100     17.4
Source: BCV.
a/    Total debt/total equity.
Monetary Aggregates and Financial Deepening
18.         Over the last ten years, the stock of money broadly defined (M3,
which includes currency, demand, saving and time deposits, as well as mortgage
bonds) has fluctuated widely (see Table 2).  M3 rose over the early 1980s,
reaching a peak of almost 42? of GDP in 1984. It has since declined steadily,
to 271 of GDP in 1989, the lowest figure in the decade. The drop in monetization
coincided with the period of negative real interest rates. In 1987 and 1988,
interest rates were negative in real terms by about 10 percentage points. The
shift to market-determined interest rates should facilitate a remonetization of
the economy in the near future.
Table 2: REAL INTEREST RATES AND FINANCIAL DEPTH, 1980-89
k Bl      o      ¶ iterest rata/   Zatios             Rea GDP (;)b/  Real mony indicesc/
Lendig  Deposit        ml1             3            l      m        M3
1980       -7.0      -5.4       15.C   31.4   35.4         108.0    87.1    94.0
1981       -1.8      -0.4       14.4   33.1   35.8         104.2    94.4    98.0
1982        5.2       7.5       13.3   34.7   36.4          89.1    91.1    93.2
1983        7.6      10.7       15.0   39.5   40.8         108.8   107.3   107.7
1984        1.0       3.2       15.1   40.6   41.5         100.0   100.0   100.0
1985        0.0       3.2       15.0   39.4   40.1         103.1    99.7    99.3
1986       -1.6       2.1       15.k   37.5   38.0         112.3   103.1   102.2
1987      -14.4    -11.2        14.4   34.1   34.1         107.3    97.2    91.0
1988      -11.8      -8.5       13.4   29.8   29.8          97.3    78.0    77.8
1989        3.0       0.0       10.5   27.0   27.0          56.9    58.9    58.9
Source: The BCV.
al Yearly averages deflated by consumer price increase (CPI) over the year;
for 1989, end-of-year interest rate is deflated by the increase in consumer
prices in the second semester only.
b/  Average money stock over the year.
c/ Stocks at the end of the year, deflated by CPI, index 1984 - 100,



19.         The decline in M3 as a proportion of GDP was accompanied by important
changes in the composition of monetary aggregates.   Given the extremely low
interest rates, the public sought liquidity. From the peak monetization in 1984
to 1988, sight deposits increased from around 292 of M3 to around 38?.  This
process was reversed in 1989 due to the rise in interest rates. Between February
and December 1989, time depos't; rose sharply, surpassing their share in M3 in
1984, prior to the disintermediation period. The opportunity cost of holding
non-interest bearing demand deposits rose considerably, and hence the public
shifted into fixed term remunerated accounts.
20.         Traditionally, the most important source of M3 has been regular
deposits. However, liquid asset funds have become one of the most important
single sources of funds in recent years. Liquid asset funds are a mechanism to
sell fractions of a trust fund, with an obligation to repurchase such fractions
at a premium corresponding to interest accrued during the period. Liquid asset
funds require a higher minimum investment than ordinary accounts, and their yield
to investors depends on the holding period. They are not a true 'investment
fund' as they are generally conceived, but are simply a secondary funding
mechanism for financial institutions.  Commercial banks, mortgage banks, and
other financial institutions created liquid asset funds to offer investors higher
returns than on other deposit accounts whose interest was fixed by the BCV at
negative real rates.  Further, liquid asset funds are not subject to reserve
requirements.
21.         Liquid asset funds represented 16.5? of M3 in December 1986, and
reached a peak of 30? by December 1988. Although no reliable figures exist on
the volume of these funds, their share of M3 does not seem to have declined in
1989 despite the upward adjustment in interest rates. Given that liquid asset
funds were created as a way of circumventing interest rate ceilings in the first
place, a financial reform oriented to achieve market-determined interest rates
can be expected to be accompanied by stronger substitution of deposits away from
liquid asset funds in the future.
Monetary Policy: Instruments and Constraints
22.         The BCV in the past played a pervasive role in the financing of
activities in most sectors in the economy.  In particular, the BCV expanded
credit by: (i) financing government deficits through the purchase of domestic
public debt; (ii) subsidizing public and private enterprises through foreign
exchange guarantees at heavily over-valued rates; (iii) providing liquidity to
the banking system through a liberal rediscount program, and (iv) supporting
special sectoral incentive programs and channelling them through the financial
system.
23.         Monetary policy was  subordinated to the achievement  of these
objectives, and was made even more precari3us by the virtual absence of flexible
instruments of monetary control. The result was that the BCV only had a loose
grip over money supply and very little reliance was placed on monetary regulation
through the price mechanism.   Moreover, some of these activities (like the
complex array of sectoral incentive programs) were premised on, and operated
through, the application of interest rates well below their market-clearing
levels.  Reserve requirements failed to have a disciplinary effect on money
supply as these requirements were frequently transgressed and their highly
differential nature meant that money supply was vulnerable to portfolio shifts



- 10 -
across different types of deposits and institutions.  Mbonetary control was
exercised in a rudimentary fashion by ad-hoc policies restricting BCV credit to
banks or inducing additional bank deposits at the BCV's .oney desk.  However,
the flexibility of the BCV's money desk facility as an 1nstrument of monetary
contraction had been lost due to the fact that the rate paid was only
infrequently adjusted according to the monetary objectives of the BCV. Aside
from the relaxation of monetary control, the direct nature of these instruments
had other lasting side-effectst (i) it increased the BCV's responsibility for
the losses of financial institutions; (iU) it made monetary policy more
vulnerable to political pressures; and (iii) it resulted in the bureaucratization
of monetary policy-making.
Z4.         The new economic policies pursued after February 1989 sought to stem
the first two categories of credit expansion listed above (para 22) through the
reduction of public sector deficits and the unification of the exchange rate.
Domestic financing of the budget deficit is estimated to have decreased by 4.7?
in 1989. and the budget is expected to move into surplus by 1991. At the same
time, the BCV has scrapped all exchange guarantee programs, and the flotation
of the exchange rate has reduced the BCV's responsibility f9r losses arising from
discrete devaluations.   The third source>qf domestic credit expansion, the
provision of liquidity to the banking system, has been curtailed significantly
since November 1989, with only one bank receiving any BCV credit as of February
1990.  From October 1989 to February 1990, rediscounts tadt been cut by 70X.
Finally, as regards the BCV's financing of special incentivs programs through
the financial system, the actions so far have been mixed and tn some cases have
even been regressive. At present, the only sectors that receive preferential
treatment by the banking system are agriculture and housing.. However, a network
of specialized financial institutions and development funds continues to fragment
credit markets.
25.         The BCV's efforts at monetary control wil:l be constrained in the
future by three sources of monetary expansions  (i) the lingering impact of the
previous fiscal and exchange rate management practices, as old public long-term
debt continues to compromipe the BCV's earnings capacity in the future and prior
foreign exchange commitments are satisfied; (ii) liquidity' credits to a few
financial institutions that can only be phased out as mechanisms for addressing
the problems in ailing institutions are developed and other sources of liquidity
emerge; and (iii) the expansion of the external debt/equity swap program under
a new auction mechanism. Monetary policy must play a key role in ensuring that
these factors or constraints are consistent with,'the broader objectives of
sustainable growth, and price stability.
26.         The BCV is currently in the process of reevaluating its monetary
instruments with a view to enhancing their flexibility and effectiveness while
minimizing their disruptive effect on banking. The BCV is aware of the need to
move toward a system of open market operations and gradually to phase out its
money desk and general or sectoral rediscount operations. To this effect, the
BCV has issued short-term paper, is promoting the creatiQn of a secondary market
in DCV bills, and is developing an open market capability. The EJV is also in
the process of revamping the reserve requirement regie with a unification of
all requirements at 12Z.



- 11 -
PART III - MAIN FINANCIAL SECTOR ISSUES
27.         The main issues affecting the financial system are:  (a) excessive
government regulation of interest rates and credit allocation in the economy;
(b) the large number of government-owned financial intermediaries (banks and
development funds), many of which are either bankrupt or poorly managed; (c) the
insufficient transparency in the BCV's operations with the public sector and the
financial system, which makes the evaluation and prioritization of credit
policies difficult and undermines the abii4ty of the BCV to carry out monetary
policy effectively; (d) a weak institutional and regulatory environment, and
inadequate supervision of financial institutions by the Superintendency of Banks
(SBIF); and (e) the weak financial condition of an important number of private
financial institutions and inadequate mechanisms to deal with ailing banks.
Excessive Government Intervention in the Determination of
Interest Rates and Credit Allocation
28.         Commercial Bank Interest Rates. The liberalization of interest rates
was one of the first measures adopted by the new Government in 1989. Complete
deregulation was achieved by March 1989, but was subsequently rendered void by
a Supreme Court ruling that required the BCV to set interest rate limits. Since
then, the BCV has been adjusting interest rate limits.   Despite the stated
objective of the BCV to adjust interest rate ceilings so as to replicate the
market rate, interest rates have remained mostly negative in real terms and
adjustments in the ceilings have not reflected a consistent adjustment policy.
For instance, after raising the maximum lending rate to 452 in November 1989,
the BCV subsequently reduced it in three steps to 35Z by end-March 1990. This
experience has shown that a system of flexible ceilings cannot replicate full
market determination of interest rates for three reasons:  (i) interest rate
ceilings are likely to be set in a backward-looking fashion whereas market rates
are determined to a greater extent in a forward-looking fashion, (ii) the
existence of interest rate regulations increases the vulnerability of the BCV
to political and social pressures; and (iii) each adjustment in the ceiling is
interpreted by the banks and the public as a signal on monetary objectives,
thereby affecting the market's expectations.
29.         The liberalization of interest rates will have a small impact on
the %.vernment's fiscal accounts from the increased public debt service burden.
The volume of public and publicly guaranteed internal debt amounted to
Bs 101.5 billion (US$2.36 billion equivalent) as of end-1989. Of this amount,
about 71? was issued prior to April 1989 at a fixed inte rest rate in the 8-15Z
range. The remaining 292 was issued at a variable rate3y based on the average
commercial bank deposit rate, and is currently yielding around 30S. Thus, the
annual debt service cost of a 10 pexzentage point rise in interest rates would
be US$68 million. Furthermore, 692 of the total volume of public debt is held
by public entities including the BCV and the portfolios managed in trust by the
BCV.  Hence, a significant portion of this increase in the Treasury's debt
service would result in a quasi-fiscal gain of US$47 million for these entities.
The fiscal cost of a 10 percentage point rise in interest rates would therefore
3I    For the purposes of this calculation, it is assumed that the outstanding
volume of zero-interest T-bills has been converted to variable rate debt
according to the exercise presented in para 48.



- 12 -
be US$21 million on a consolidated basis. This calculation illustrates that the
net fiscal effect of the liberalization would in any case be manageable. Also,
given the new policy of fiscal restraint, it can be assumed that the Government's
internal borrowing requirement will be near zero and hence it will not need to
float much additional debt at the higher interest rates.
30.         Since interest rates will become the focal point of competition,
credit allocation and financial discipline, it is imperative that the public be
aware of and understand the range of services and rates available. The non-
competitive nature of the sector in the past has led to a lack of uniformity in
interest rate calculation methods and insufficient information disclosure. Users
of financial services need to be made more discriminating, so that they can exert
the market discipline that will be expected of them in the new envirorment.
31.         Preferential Interest Rates.   The agricultural sector is the
beneficiary of a rediscount and a lending rate ceiling 7 percentage points below
those for other sectors. In addition, there is a plethora of interest rates
applied by each development fund. In December 1989 when interest rates peaked,
nominal lending rates fluctuated between the general adjustable lending rate
ceiling of 45% and the 3% fixed rate for peasants under the agrarian reform law.
In between there is a wide gamut of rates which, in April 1990, stood at about
15% for subsidized housing, 14% for certain agricultural products, 22-29% for
certain industries, and 28% for other agricultural loans. Furthermore, several
government-owned financial institutions (funds) segment the market even further
by charging different rates based on the activity or sector being financed. The
Venezuela Investment Fund (FIV), which acts as second-tier lender to several
funds, also charges differential interest rates to the various funds, not based
on clear criteria.  The first column in Table 3 illustrates the spread in
interest rates for a range of development funds.
32.         The prerogative to set interest rates is decentralized in each fund,
and indeed each fund has its own policy regarding interest rates. Therefore,
the adjustment of rates does not occur in a consistent fashion, and an economy-
wide adjustment of rates becomes very burdensome administratively and
politically. This represents an erosion of the BCV's ability to regulate credit
and a loss of discipline for the public sector generally.
33.         Agricultural Credit Reauirement for Commercial Banks. Restrictions
on the allocation of credit according destination of the funds segment markets
and therefore preclude the full market determination of interest rates.
Portfolio requirements fragment the credit market, and by themselves result in
a proliferation of interest rates. Commercial banks are subject to a 22.5%
lending portfolio requirement for agriculture and agroindustry. Agricultural
credits are in some cases made at interest rates well below the maximum lending
rate applicable to agriculture, which implies that the requirement imposes a
binding restriction on banks' activities. Also, there is evidence that some of
the credits that purportedly satisfy the requirement are being channeled to other
uses.



- 13 -
Table 3: COMPARISON OF CURRENT VERSUS PROPOSED INTEREST RATES
(in percent, as of April 15, 1990)
Lending rate
floors/geilings
Current         ProposedY
Commercial banks:
Commercial lending                                     35            35
Agricultural lending                                   28            30
Fondo de Inversiones de Venezuela (FIV):
Direct investment loans                                18            32
Tourism projects                                    17-22            32
Loans to public enterprises                            28            32
Loans to FONCREI                                       22            30
Loans to CORPOINDUSTRIA                                17            30
Loans to Agricultural Credit Fund                      17            30
Fondo de Cr4dito Agropecuario (FCA)                      14            30
Fondo de Cr6dito Industrial (FONCREI)                 22-29            32
Fondo Financiamiento Exportaciones (FINEXPO)             25            32
Fondo de Desarrollo Urbano (FONDUR)
Tourism projects                                       12            32
Purchase of real estate                                12            32
Mortgages                                              15            32
A/ On development loans to end-users, 85% and 90% of average commercial bank
lending rate for agriculture and other sectors, respectively. On second-
tier lending, average borrowing rate of commercial banks. It is assumed that
commercial bank interest rates continue at current levels--i.e., 35% average
lending rate and 28% average deposit rate.
Excessive Public Sector articipation in the Financial System
34.        Bblic Sector Commercial Banks. The public sector currently owns
nine commercial banks in Venezuela.  The Central Government owns six (the
Industrial Bank of Venezuela [BIV), the Agricultural Development Bank [BANDAGRO],
and four regional banks), and the BCV owns three (Banco Repliblica, Banco Italo-
Venezolano and Banco Occidental de Descuento). All of these banks have poor
asset quality, although the extent of the problem varies from bank to bank. The
Government has already agreed to privatize the three banks owned by the BCV, and
has named FIV as the agent for privatization.
35.        BANDAGRO is one of several financial intermediaries which the State
has established to assist the agricultural sector.   Since its inception,
BANDAGRO, a public sector commercial bank, has had difficulties attracting
deposits and has increasingly depended on the Government for support. In fact,



- 14 -
it has been under intervention since 1981.   Several covmissions have been
established to restructure the bank, yet none has been successful. Among the
findings of an 'intervention committee' in February 1989 weres (i) BANDAGRO's
net losses exceed its capital (its bad loan portfolio equalled 612 of total loans
at the end of August 1989)s tii) it has US$500 million in foreign currency debt
obligations (against US$200 million in total book assets4l); (iii) it is unable
to act as the financial arm of the agricultural sector; (iv) during the last few
years, the bank's new loans have been limited to short-term financing for cereal
production; (v) it has a serious credit documentation problem that has prevented
it from obtaining payment on many loans; (vi) it sustains net losses each year,
including in 1989; (vi) it lacks a computer system, operating procedures and
administrative guidelines, which has led to interest accrual mistakes and other
accounting difficulties; and (vii) it is heavily influenced by government
agencies and unions which limit its ability to make objective financial
decisions.    In  the committee's  view,  the  institution  should be  either
restructured or liquidated.
36.         BIV I.s Venezuela's oldest state-owned commercial bank, and was
created to support the industrial sector although in practice it became the bank
of the public sector. BIV is very heavily dependent on government funding, with
the consequent prevalence of political interference which has impeded it from
making its own decisions and attaining its objectives.   It is technically
insolvent, and confronts serious liquidity, administrative and economic problems:
(i) its asset structure is heavily burdened with government paper and commitments
which are not properly serviced; (ii) it is heavily dependent on volatile
government deposits (482 of BIV's total); (iii) it acts largely as an executor
of the Government's short-term financial decisions; (iv) the term structure of
its assets and liabilities is heavily mismatched; (v) its loan portfolio is of
poor quality with approximately one third of its credits past due at the end of
August 1989; (vi) some of BIV's assets are overvalued or represent an activation
of losses, while others are undervalued (such as holdings of dollar-denominated
bonds which are recognized at Bs 4.3JUtS); (vii) off-balance sheet contingent
accounts are very large to the extent that total net worth would be lost if only
7.3? of guarantees and other contingent obligations were called.
37.         The four regional banks owned by BIV also have large volumes ot non-
performing loans which exceeded their total net worth at the end of 1989 on a
consolidated basis. More important, the role and functions of these institutions
in BIV's strategy is not clear.
38.         Need  to  Re-evaluate  the  Functions  of  Development  Finance
Institutions. There are 23 state-owned development finance institutions (DFIs)--
excluding commercial banks.  While DFIs were created to provide long-term
financing, several are used as conduits to implement political decisions through
the channeling of funds to particular projects at below-market interest rates.
In general, their loan portfolios are of poor quality, their funding comes
primarily from the Government, and their management teams need to be improved.
DFIs are mostly second-tier institutions operating outside the purview of the
regulatory authorities and the BCV. They are controlled by the corresponding
sectoral ministries (except for FIV, which has ministerial rank), and obtain
their funding from direct transfers of the Government, loans from the FIV, or
41    As of September 30, 1989, valued at a rate of exchange of Bs 43/US$.



- 15 -
government-guaranteed external financing. The most important DFIs ares the FIV,
the Industrial Credit Fund (FONCREI) which supports large and medium-sized
private corporations; the Small and Medium Industry Development Corporation
(CORPOINDUSTRIA) which finances small-scale private sector companies; the Export
Finance Fund (FINEXPO); and the Agricultural Credit Fund (FCA).
39.         FIV was established in 1974 to manage the windfall the country
obtained from the oil price hike of the early 1970s. It has principally financed
state enterprises including electricity generation. Among other functions, it
acts as a development finance intermediary. In this role it has mostly acted
as a second-tier lender to public commercial banks and development funds. Its
current portfolio amounts to only US$65 million. It has in the past lent at very
low interest rates (7.5-12? per annum).
40.         FONCREI was also created in 1974 to provide medium- and long-terL.
credit to industry. It is a second-tier institution which only lends through
the commercial banking system yet retains up to 402 of the credit risk of the
final borrower.   Its main sources of funds are direct transfers from the
Government and lines of credit from domestic (FIV) and foreign (Andean
Development Corporation, IDB) sources. FONCREI's cost of funds is approximately
24? while the average return on its loan portfolio is 10?. A large part of its
loans are at fixed rates, which is gradually decapitalizing FONCREI.
41.         CORPOINDUSTRIA is a mostly first-tier lending institution created
to finance small-scale industry. It has a few joint programs with the banking
system. It lends at longer maturities and lower interest rates than PONCREI,
with interest rates ranging from 6Z to 202 per annum. Its main sources of funds
are government transfers (70Z) and lines of credit from FlV and foreign sources
(30?). As in the case of PONCREI, it confronts a significant mismatch between
the average interest rate in its loan portfolio and its cost of funds.  In
addition, its loan supervision is weak and its procedures for loan recovery are
poor.
42.         FCA was created in 1976 as a second-tier lending institution to
provide medium- and long-term credit to the agricultural sector through
commercial banks. FCA's computed cost of funds is 142. but this does not include
the opportunity cost of the funds it receives from the Government or the exchange
rate risk on a line of credit it obtained from the IDB, its major sources of
funds at present.  In spite of this measure, FCA is facing losses since the
average return on its loan portfolio is below 7.5? per annum while it is charging
its borrowers 14? per annum.
43.         FINEXPO was created in 1973 to support the country's nontraditional
exports. It provides pre- and post-export financing and technical assistance
to exporters. FINEXPO's main sources of funds are direct transfers from the
Government and BCV rediscounts. Its portfolio amounted to about US$57 million
as of June 1989. Short-term credits are provided for pre-export financing to
domestic producers. Post-export credits are provided to foreign importers of
Venezuelan goods and have longer maturities. It also provides guarantees to
third parties, an activity which has grown quite rapidly in the recent past.
44.         The most important deficiency of DFIs is that their collective role
is not clearly defined and their individual goals and functions overlap. The
Government has not clearly determined which areas cannot be supported by private



- 16 -
financial intermediaries, yet warrant State assistance because of other economic
justifications. Once the role of the public sector and individual DFIs has been
determined, the appropriate structure of DFIs can be dasign3d to fit this role
and clear performance criteria can be developed.
Distortions in the Financial System caused by BCV Onerations
45.         There are two challenges ahead for the BCVY  (i) to make explicit
its quasi-fiscal contribution to financing the national budget and the financial
system, and (ii) to develop appropriate instruments of monetary control. These
two objectives are interrelated to the extent that quasi-fiscal financing by the
BCV limits the use of some instruments of monetarv control and places an onerous
burden on the remaining instruments.
46.         BCV Credit to the Public Sector.   BCV financing of government
deficits occurs through its holdings of unremunerated Treasury bills (T-bills),
its purchases of low-interest long-term Treasury bonds at face (above market)
value, and the BCV's holdings of converted government external debt purchased
under the debt/equity swap program. BCV credit to the public sector is subject
to an overall ceiling based on the average fiscal revenues in the preceding five
years. However, this ceiling does not include external debt issued within the
last three years, or the BCY's rights to government bonds earned through the
external debt swap program. Therefore, credit ceilings have often been surpassed
in practice, with a corresponding loosening of fiscal discipline and crowding
out of credit to the private sector.
47.         T-bills of maturity less than one year must be repaid by the
Government within the same fiscal year in which they are issued. The spirit of
providing only intra-year financing to the Government is often transgressed when
the T-bills are converted into long-term bonds at the end of the fiscal year in
order to finance their redemption. Moreover, the lack of fixed-term negotiable
T-bills has precluded the use of these instruments in open market operations by
the BCV. Instead, the BCV has had to issue its own short-term bills, at the risk
of generating quasi-fiscal losses. T-bills must, by law, be placed through a
preferential list of economic agents, implying that they need not carry market
rates of interest. In practice, only the BCV and commercial banks hold them,
the latter as assets satisfying reserve requirements. The use of T-bills as a
reserve asset negates the monetary objective of the reserve requirement; the
requirement becomes merely a vehicle for forced lending to the Government.
48.         As of end-February 1990, the BCV held no T-bills and commercial
banks held Bs 11.4 billion (US$265 million equivalent) in T-bills. On the one
hand, if these T-bills were eliminated and assuming that the financing
requirement of the Treasury remains constant, the Treasury would have to replace
them with bonds (which yield a variable rate based on the average commercial
banking deposit rate, currently standing at 30Z).   The fiscal cost to the
Government of paying interest on this amount would be US$80 million per year.
On the other hand, T-bills are held by commercial banks In satisfaction of legal
reserve requirements; if they were eliminated, this amount would be deposited
in unremunerated accounts at the BCV. Thus, the Treasury's fiscal loss would
be compensated by a quasi-fiscal gain for the BCV, and there would be no fiscal
effect on a consolidated basis.



- 17 -
49.         Credit to the Financial Svstem.  BCV rediscounting, advancing and
repurchasing of securities in the hands of financial institutions has often been
used to support specific sectors in the economy and bank solvency rather than
to provide liquidity to banks or as an instrument of monetary regulation. The
liberal rediscount policy has had deleterious effects in many respectss (i) it
has had a large expansionary effect in monetary terms; (ii) it has subjected the
BCV to political pressures and has implied a sharing of responsibility for bank
distress with the monetary authority; (iii) it has inhibited the development of
the interbank and secondary debt markets, which has in turn retarded the
development of the BCV's open market capability as an instrument of monetary
control; and (iv) in so far as it has been used as a covert means of keeping
insolvent institutions afloat, it has permitted delays in the resolution of bank
crises during which time losses have mounted. Access to the rediscount window
had been made attractive by: (a) the heavily subsidized rediscount rate; (b) the
relatively long maturity on the rediscounts permitted by law (up to one year):
(c) the valuation of underlying instruments or guarantees at face (above market)
value; and (d) the lack of penalties imposed on heavy and/or frequent borrowers.
50.         The subsidy element of the rediscount window has been cut down
significantly in recent months, as the non-preferential rediscount rate has been
increased to about market lending levels. However, the persistence of a special
rate for agricultural rediscounting still signals the possibility of using the
rediscount window for sectoral development purposes. Nevertheless, the volume
of rediscounts has been curtailed considerably to only Bs 4.5 billion in February
1990. Some portfolio purchase programs by the BCV remain. As of January 1990,
the BCV held Bs 6.3 billion in agricultural credits purchased from commercial
banks. Since the banks retain the credit risk on these loans, these programs
constitute a less transparent alternative to rediscounting.
51.         Credit for Housing Finance.  The BCV has indirectly supported the
provision of housing finance by financially supporting mortgage banks, S&Ls and
BANAP. This support has taken the form of subsidized rediscounted credit as well
as the purchase of low-yielding liabilities of these institutions.  The BCV
currently holds Bs 4.3 billion of the latter instruments. This has represented
a quasi-fiscal drain on the BCV and has helped maintain afloat a number of
institutions that would otherwise become insolvent.   In addition to these
indirect forms of support, a recently enacted housing law calls for the
allocation of the BCV's profits for financing subsidies to mortgage borrowers.
The earmarking of the BCV's profits is not allowed by the BCV's Law, which
requires all its profits, after reserves, to be channelled directly to the
Treasury.
52.         The BCV's Role as Fideicomisario (Trustee).  The BCV acts as trustee
of several public entities, including the Social Security pension fund and the
deposit insurance fund. In this role, it invests their portfolios in government
securities and private instruments (mostly mortgage bonds), in most cases at
below market rates. The outside portfolios currently being managed by the BCV
are utilized as a conduit for financing budget deficits and as a backdoor
mechanism for the BCV to acquire government securities at face value. The result
is that these funds are being decapitalized. Annex IX presents an estimate of
the hidden transfer which amounts to about US$300 million in stock terms. Also,
the fact that these public entities do not administer their portfolios directly
precludes them from becoming important institutional investors in the capital
markets.



- 18 -
Weaknesses of the Institutional and Regulatory Structure
53.         Lack of Clarity on the Functions of the Main ReRulators.  There is
lack of clarity on the role of the BCV, the Ministry of Finance (MH), the SBIF,
and the Deposit Insurance Corporation (FOGADE) with regard to their respective
regulatory and oversight functions over the financial system. Several aspects
of this indefinition are noteworthy. First, approval of the MNH is required for
many actions by FOGADE and the SBIF, which tends to delay actions, diffuse
responsibilities, and infuse a degree of politization over the regulatory
process. Second, decision-making authority and reporting procedures between the
SBIF and FOGADE are vague, creating conflict between the institutions and
inconsistency in policy-making. This is exemplified by the lack of norms on who
initiates actions in cases of insolvent financial institutions. Third, functions
are often overlapping, which further weakens accountability and often leads to
inaction as one institution relies on the other to act, For instance, FOGADE
and the BCV can both grant liquidity credits to insufficiently capitalized
institutions. Finally, some of these institutions are performing functions that
clearly overstep their roles.  For example, the BCV often acts as a shadow
superintendency and is the trustee for investments of several large public sector
agencies; similarly FOGADE cannot focus its efforts entirely on handling ailing
banks because it is also charged with the management, recovery and sale of assets
it inherited from the BCV upon its creation.
54.         Lack of Autonomy and Powers of the SBIP.  The SI  and the other
superintendencies of financial institutions (insurance companies and S&Ls) are
weak, and lack the ability to establish strict prudential norms and enforce
them.   There is a need to redefine the status of these superintendencies,
particularly of the SBIF, to increase their autonomy.   The SBIF is heavily
dependent on the National Executive, and lacks the power to undertake several
important actions which should be in its jurisdiction such ass  (i) intervening
ailing   financial   institutions,    (ii) authorizing   new   institutions,
(iii) authorizing changes in the capital base of institutions, (iv) authorizing
the sale, merger or liquidation of financial institutions, and (v) suspending
or revoking the operating licence of financial institutions.
55.         Weak Prudential Regulations.  Current regulations are not effective
in ensuring the solvency and financial stability of financial intermediaries.
Norms on loan portfolio classification, provisioning, capital requirements,
lending concentration, lending to related parties, control mechanisms, and fines
and sanctions, among others, need to be strengthened. The Chart of Accounts and
accounting rules are not sufficiently clear, external audits are inadequate, and
information disclosure by banks and by the SBIF is deficient.
56.         SBIF supervision of banks is weak because examinations are too
infrequent and they tend to focus on enforcing specific monetary, fiscal and
other accounting regulations rather than on credit risk analysis and on the
assessment of the overall solvency condition of intermediaries. Major problems
found in banking regulations and supervision result in:   (a) inadequately
capitalized banks, (b) insufficient provisioning for bad debts, anLd (c) severe
risk exposure due to lending concentration and lending to related parties.
57.         Inadequate Mechanisms for Manadn. and Solvina Bank Crises. Although
FOGADE is charged with effecting bank rescue operations, this has proven to be



- 19 -
an inadequate mechanism for handling bank crises for a number of reasons. There
is a lack of clear rules on the conditions that can cause the SBIF to intervene
a financial institution, and, if required, on the transfer mechanism of an
intervened institution to FOGADE. FOGADE's Law does not give it an adequate
mandate nor the appropriate mechanisms to rehabilitate or liquidate insolvent
banks. FOGADE is often prompted into inaction because of the approval
requirements and its precarious financial condition.   In any case,   since
FOGADE's assistance is not made conditional on change of ownership, financial
assistance for rehabilitation can be misused to bail out existing shareholders
and managers of failing banks. Oftentimes, FOGADE's assistance to banks amounts
to liquidity support, which may be provided at preferential rates and for
unnecessarily long maturities.
Weak Financial Condition of Financial Intermediaries
58.         A serious problem in the financial system is the weak financial
position and potential insolvency cf some institutions. While available data
is limited and suspect, problems identified as afflicting many banks are poor
asset quality, lending concentration, foreign exchange risk exposure, inadequate
capital, vulnerability to liquidity shortfalls and poor profitability.
Commercial Banks
59.         Asset Quality and Capital Adequacy. While the magnitude of problems
related to asset quality is difficult to estimate because of poor supervision
and widespread rolling over of non-performing loans, the registered level of non-
performing credits increased by approximately 502 from May to August 1989 for
commercial banks not under intervention. The portfolio of non-performing loans
for the six largest private banks, while still remaining low at 3.2? of total
credits, more than doubled over this period. Of 38 banks not intervened, 12 had
non-performing portfolios which exceeded their total estimated capital base in
August 1989.51  These insti utions together comprise approximately 22Z of the
total assets of the system.96 The assets of the Banco Industrial (BIV) represent
over half of the total of this sub-group. None of these institutions was among
the six largest private commercial banks. While the implication of these figures
is that loan portfolio quality has deteriorated, banks in the greatest danger
are likely to be BIV and some smaller banks. While at least three of the six
largest banks may need some capital increases, the Bank believes that
improvements in the regulatory structure will not render them insolvent.
Nevertheless, BIV and some smaller banks may, as a result, have to be heavily
recapitalized, merged, or liquidated.
60.         Given the asset quality issues indicated above, current levels of
capital may be insufficient to compensate for potential losses for several
commercial banks. At the end of December 1989, 13 of 38 commercial banks had
5I    Capital and reserves data for August 31, 1989, was interpolated from
data for June 30 and December 31.   Non-performing loans may be
overestimated because they are calculated before the effects of
provisions, while provisions are deducted from capital and reserves.
Provisioning data was not made available to the Bank.
6/    As of December 31, 1989 based on a total of 41 institutions.



- 20 -
total debt to total equity ratios above 20sl and three were above 25l.7.1 Equity
is not alAy insufficient for certain institutions in relation to non-performing
assets but also in relation to non-liquid assets.
61.         Reform of the bank regulatory requirements will likely result in
the recognition of significant losses to commercial banks and other financial
intermediaries. As of December 31, 1989, were 101 of loans to be written down
or written off, public and private comercial banks would experience losses of
approximately US$693 million. In order for banks not to individually violate
a 20sl total debt to total equity limit, they would have to increase capital by
US$547 million, or 73t of pre-existing capital and reserves.
62.         Profitability.  Returns on average equity decreased for comercial
banks since the liberalization of interest rates in February 1989. Real returns
on equity for all commercial banks decreased from 17.82 for 1988 to -14.2? for
1989. An important factor explaining the decline in profitability in 1989 has
been the reduction of bank operations in letters of credit which contributed
significantly to profits in 1988. In order to increase profitability there is
a need to reduce high overhead costs, increase the level of repayment on existing
louns, and find creditworthy projects that can bear market lending rates.
Evidence suggests that fixed costs from large branch networks remain high and
could be reduced.
63.         Liquidity.   Commercial banks faced liquidity shortages between
February and October 1989, although at a declining rate, due to their obligations
to honor letters of credit that existed before the devaluation. BC' rediscounts
had assisted those institutions facing liquidity shortages helping to restore
liquidity to the system.   Late in the year, BCV rediscounts were virtually
eliminated for banks (except for BIV). BCV rediscounts fell from Bs 15.0 billion
during November of 1989 to Bs 4.5 billion in February 1990. Increased borrowing
through the BCV's money desk helped to absorb Bs 9 billion in excess liquidity
from end-November 1989 to end-February 1990. These high levels of liquidity in
the banking system could decline if the relative interest rates offered were to
decline or loan demand at high rates were to increase significantly. Further
development of the BCV's indirect monetary instruments and the interbank money
market would provide greater flexibility to financial institutions to modify
their liquidity position as needed.
64.         Effects of Reforms.  Reforms in regulation and supervision of loan
classification and provisioning would likely have additional implications for
the financial positions of banks.   The reasons are as follows: (i) non-
performing loans in commercial banks are often rolled over to new loans which,
at least for 30 days, are considered current; (ii) improved scrutiny and
enforcement of loan classification would increase the level of provisions
required, especially since such a system would require provisions for credits
that are current yet reflect a diminished ability to pay by the borrower;
(iii) consolidation of financial statements and controls over asset sales would
7/    Neither BCV nor SBIF provides data on the leverage of each bank
according to the BCV's methodology which is the basis for the legal 20:1
leverage requirement. Under this methodology, BCV obligations and some
debt which is on the balance sheet yet considered contingent are
excluded from the debt total.



- 21 -
expose intra-group transfers of non-performing assets between financial and non-
financial enterprises; and (iv) lower levels of earning assets in the financial
system would compromise future profits and thus further reduce capital.
65.         If improved accounting rules were in place and enforced, the reported
financial condition of many institutions would likely deteriorate. Further, the
economic adjustment program is likely to worsen the quality of the loan portfolio
of many institutions. This will require increases in capital to mitigate risk
or decreases in total assets and liabilities. An effective program to attack
insolvency problems in individual institutions is therefore needed before they
worsen.
Mortgage Banks and S&Ls
66.         Housing Finance Policy.  Mortgage banks and S&Ls are experiencing
major financial problems largely due to the mismatch between the maturity and
rate structure of their assets and liabilities. It should be noted, however,
that mortgage banks and S&Ls only represent 92 and 62 of the assets of the
financial system, respectively (see Table 1).  M4ultiple goverDment-sponsored
programs which provide subsidies in order to limit the rate paid by borrowers
have forced most institutions to become highly dependent on government subsidies
in order to survive.   This is particularly true since the interest rate
liberalization initiated in early 1989.   The Ley de Protecci6n del Deudor
Hinotecario passed in 1989 covers the difference between 25-301 of a borrower's
monthly income and his or her monthly mortgage payment (calculated at a variable
market rate). All primary homes are covered by this subsidy up to a purchase
price of Bs 3.4 million (US$80,000 equivalent). The amount of subsidy required
in 1990 to support these loans is estimated at Be 10 billion, or 0.72 of GDP.
67.         Mortgage Banks.   The financial condition of mortgage banks has
weakened since February 1989, as a result of increases in interest rates and
their inability to charge market interest rates on non-subsidized loans. Debt-
to-equity ratios have increased, in some cases significantll above the already
very high 30sl legal ceiling, and profitability has dropped.-/ The performance
of the system needs to be monitored closely and steps should be taken to
strengthen its capital base, particularly because asset quality deteriorated as
a result of higher interest rates (given that not all borrowers are covered by
the subsidy).
68.         The Savings and Loans System.  As with mortgage banks, S&Ls face
several problems which stem from the structure of the subsector.  S&Ls have
severe mismatches between the maturities of their assets and liabilities yet
have virtually no capital to cover this risk. As a result, recurrent liquidity
shortages have been solved through government purchases of mortgage bonds at full
face value and through increases in financial support from the National Savings
and Loans Bank (BANAP). S&Ls in general have high operating costs, in part
because they effectively have no shareholders to be held accountable to, and in
part because government-sponsored housing programs channeled through S&Ls are
designed in a way that provides little incentive for efficiency or profitability.
While S&Ls are required to allocate a minimum of 802 of net earnings to capital
8/    Even assuming that yet-to-be-transferred subsidies for 1989 are received
by mortgage banks.



- 22 -
reserves, most institutions are highly unlikely to build up a capital base from
retained earnings sufficient to serve as a buffer against risk. In general S&Ls
may pay relatively high rates on deposits in order to attract funds.
69.         Because of their narrow capital base, virtually all S&Ls face quick
insolvency in the event that subsidies on preferential rate loans are cut. In
spite of these subsidies, however, several institutions are near insolvency.
At the end of June 1989, six institutions representing 312 of the assets of the
S&L subsector had losses which greatly exceed their capital. S&Ls have been
losing their share of the market for deposits since 1987. They have found it
difficult to offer attractive rates of interest given their asset margins and
cost structures.
70.         BANAP, which acts as a second-tier financing institution of the
S&Ls, has borne an inordinate share of the multiple risks facing these
institutions and has provided a large volume of credits to S&Ls financed from
external debt.  Several institutions have large obligations with BANAP.  While
the average amount of obligations with BAAP represented 26.62 of the total
liabilities of the existing 20 S&Ls at the end of June 1989, 5 had obligations
that represented more than 402 of their liabilities. The perception among some
managers is that BANAP will provide for the solvency needs of all S&Ls regardless
of the cost.   While  some mergers have to date been  forced ou certain
institutions, other measures certainly are needed.
71.         BANAP itself faces severe financial difficulties which need to be
remedied. First, as of December 1989, 602 of BANAP's total liabilities were
loans received from foreign banks.   This US$1.5 billion worth of loans is
maintained in its books at an exchange rate of Ba 7.5US$.   Were these
liabilities to be revalued according to the market rate of exchange, BANAP would
suffer a foreign exchange loss of US$1.2 billion.91  Second, BANAP likely has
set aside insufficient provisions for contingencies in its role as guarantor of
credits. Third, BANAP's capital base may be insufficient to cover future losses
stemming from the amortization of costs associated with previous mergers of
selected S&Ls. Fourth, given the weaknesses indicated in the financial position
and capital base of the S&Ls, it is likely that BANAP does not have sufficient
resources to provide these entities with the liquidity support they will need
unless assisted by the BCV. This raises the question of the self-sustainability
of the savings and loans system.
Capital Markets
72.         Capital markets are not well developed--short-term money markets
lack depth and long-term capital markets are minimal. Equity markets have had
little significance in mobilizing capital for the country's development.  There
are several factors which have precluded the growth of capital markets.
Subsidized rates of interest and easy credit policies have contributed to debt
financing being favored over equity. Weak regulatory authorities and a loose
regulatory environment have prevented market transparency and discouraged
investor confidence. Investors are skeptical of becoming one of many diverse
9/    US$1.2 billion represents 2.6 times BANAP'S total assets when these
assets are valued at Bs 42.5/US$.



- 23 -
holders of company shares after years of economic concentration and state
intervention.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED FINNCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN
73.         The financial sector reform program envisioned by the Government
aims ats ($) liberalizing the financial policy environment (interest rates,
allocation of credit, foreign ownership, universal banking, etc.); (ii) reducing
the Guvernment's direct role in financial intermediation (privatization and
liquidation of public banks, consolidation of DFIs, rationalization of housing
finance policy, limiting the BCV's role in the financial support of institutions
to bank liquidity and monetary management needs); and (iii) strengthening the
competitiveness and financial conditiot of intermediaries (adequate prudential
regulations and supervision, capital standards, mechanisms for handling problem
banks).
74.         The  Government  has  formed  a  team which  is working  on  the
implementation of these reforms, including the identification of required
legislative and executive changes, the evaluation of institutional upgrading
needs, and the sequencing of reforms. The Bank has worked closely with this
team in the preparation of the loan to ensure both consistency and support for
the proposed measures.
75.         The proposed loan would support the first phase of the comprehensive
financial sector reform program.   It would focus on:   (a) liberalizing and
rationalizing interest rates and credit allocation; (b) reducing public sector
participation in the commercial banking system and redefining the role of the
public sector in development finance; (c) rationalizing the BCV's credit
operations with a view to enhancing their transparency and minimizing their
disruptive effects in the financial system; (d) strengthening the regulatory and
institutional framework; (e) improving the financial strength of financial
intermediaries and upgrading mechanisms for dealing with problem banks; and
(f) enhancing the competitive environment for financial intermediaries.
76.         The second phase of the financial sector reform program would build
on and complete the reforms initiated in the first stage supported by this loan.
In particular, it would target: (i) the full liberalization of interest rates
and credit controls following the strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory
framework; (ii) completing the restructuring of the development finance system;
and (iii) a full program for reform of the housing finance system. In addition,
it would pursue reforms in the areas of capital markets and insurance which are
largely outside the scope of the first phase. The Bank expects to support these
reforms either through investment projects (for instance, an industrial
restructuring operation) or through a possible second financial sector loan.
In addition, the Bank (through this loan) and the IFC will provide technical
assistance to the stock exchange and to the National Securities Commission to
review the functioning of the securities markets, the trading framework, and the
supply and demand of the various financial instruments and securities. The
review will also include an analysis of the legal and regulatory framework
following up on earlier work done with joint IBRD/IFC financing. It is expected
that this work could lead to important areas of improvement in the legislation
which could be addressed in the second phase of the reform program.



- 24 -
77.         The reform program is described in the Government's Letter of
Sectoral Policy (LSP) (Annex III). The policy matrix (Annex IV) summarizes the
objectives of the Government's financial sector reform program, actions already
taken, and actions that will be taken as part of the proposed loan and their
expected timing. Key actions which are specific conditions of tranche release
in the legal documents are identified with an asterisk (*) in the policy matrix
and are underlined in the text. All other actions specified in the matrix are
part of the financial sector reform program as described in the LSP, and
satisfactory progress in their implementation will also be reviewed prior to
tranche releases.
78.         The reform program will  result  in significant  costs  for the
Government, which the loan will help finance. On the one hand there are the
costs narrowly associated with the implementation of the program such as
institution-building, human resource upgrading, undertaking policy studies or
financial analyses, and the formulation of the legislative and executive reforms.
These costs will be financed largely through the TA component of the loan. More
broadly, however, the reforms will have significant fiscal repercussions which
the loan will help defray through its fast-disbursing component: (i) the capital
replenishment of FOGADE to cover the unrealized losses hidden in its balance
sheet and to allow it to become the prime mechanism for resolving the solvency
problems already detected in a number of institutions; (ii) the costs associated
with the rehabilitation or liquidation of selected public financial institutions
and the subrogation of their external debt; (iii) the assumption by the BCV or
the Treasury of the capital losses of the portfolios of some public entities held
in trust at the BCV; and (iv) the increased cost of public debt service with the
flotation of T-bills and the liberalization of interest rates. It is estimated
that these costs will be no less than the equivalent of US$1.2 billion.
79.         The financial sector reform is an important element of the overall
adjustment program of the Government, and complements other reforms supported
by the Bank. The Bank's operational strategy for Venezuela has been framed in
the context of the Policy Options Report which was submitted to the Government
in early 1989 and of ensuing discussions. The proposed loan complements the
ongoing SAL and TPL operations by improving the policy framework of the financial
sector and by strengthening and modernizing financial institutions so that they
can play a supportive role in the stabilization and adjustment process. It is
therefore a critical element of the reform program, and is necessary to ensure
the coherence of the overall adjustment effort. On the other hand, financial
sector reform presupposes a stable financial environment that is conducive to
the monetization of transactions and savings and investment. Therefore, all
tranche releases will be conditional on the maintenance of a macroeconomic policy
framework that is consistent with the objectives of the financial reform program.
Rationalization and Liberalization of Interest Rates and Credit Allocation
80.         Interest Rate Policy.  The objectives of the reform of the interest
rate policy are tot (i) allow interest rates to reflect the opportunity cost
of funds in the economy and encourage resource mobilization; (ii) allow variation
in interest rates based on relative risks and costs of funds rather than on the
nature of the source or the sectoral destination of the funds; (iii) quickly
respond to changing economic conditions; and (iv) remove administrative
discretion over interest rate determination by any public entity other than the
BCV in its capacity as monetary authority. These objectives can be achieved



- 25 -
by allowing full market determination of interest rates, and by granting the BCV
full and exclusive prerogative to set all administered interest rates that cannot
be set on the basis of supply and demand.
81.         Bank Interest Rates. Pending modification to BCV's Law to eliminate
the BCV's obligation to set interest rate limits, the Government has agreed that
the BCV will set interest rate limits so that they do not exert pressures on the
market. Accordingly, in April 1990 the BCV Board issued a resolution setting
the minimum deposit rate at 10? and the maximum lending rate at 60? for
commercial and mortgage banks, finance companies and S&Ls. The spread between
these limits allows sufficient scope for market determination of interest rates.
In the weeks following this liberalization of interest rates, rates remained
steady. As the LSP indicates, the lending rate ceiling will be immediately
increased whenever it is binding, and the minimum deposit rate will be
immediately reduced when it becomes binding. This will remove the discretion
which currently exists over the determination of interest rate ceilings. In so
doing, it will enhance the credibility of the reform process and will help
prevent backtracking.
82.         In order to enhance market discipline over financial intermediaries,
the BCV intends to promote the transparency and public disclosure of the market
interest rate structure. In May 1990 the BCV Board issued a resolutiou dictating
daily publication by the BCV of the average and range of interest rates observed
in the market (including rates offered to the public, on the interbank market,
and the effective yield on BCV bills) as well as the rediscount rate. By second
tranche, the BCV will issue a directive to financial intermediaries requiring
them to announce and post their rates on all deposit and credit services,
specifying the method for calculation of interest and other charges or fees.
By third tranche, the BCV will publish in its monthly bulletin the average
interest rates offered by a wide range of financial institutions on
representative deposit and credit contracts. The interest rate data will be
presented according to a uniform interest computation methodology.
83.         Preferential Lending Rates.  As Table 3 illustrates, the current
administrative structure of interest rates contains major differences in rates
for different sectors and institutions, resulting in large subsidies and the
consequent inefficient use of resources. The Government has agreed to gradually
reduce subsidies on development or other sectoral credits and to ultimately
eliminate them.  The first priorities must be:  (i) to simplify the current
plethora of interest rates; (ii) to tie the subsidized interest rates to market
rates so that the former reflect market developments even though they need not
coincide with market rates; and (iii) to set subsidized rates in a way that
allows gradual phasing out of the subsidy element without a need to completely
rework the interest rate determination mechanism. In other words, the interest
rate adjustment process must be consistent with the ultimate objective of market
determination. To this effect, the best anchor of rates would be the weekly
average lending rate of commercial banks toward which currently subsidized rates
will tend during the adjustment period.
84.         Following these principles, a new structure of preferential rates
was instituted in May 1990. According to the new structure, the preferential
interest rate on agricultural lending by commercial banks will be 85Z of the
average lending rate of the six largest commercial banks on non-preferential
credit.  All direct lending by governmen.-owned DFIs for agricultural and non-



- 26 -
agricultural activities will be set at rates not less than 85Z and 902.
respectively, of the average lending rate of the six largest commercial banks
on non-Preferential credit. Preferential rates will be revised weekly. As the
LSP states, the Government is committed, as a medium-term objective, to gradually
reduce and ultimately eliminate the interest rate differential between market
rates and preferential rates.
85.         Table 3 compares the interest rates prevailing prior to the enactment
of the recent changes with the rates currently in effect for a selected range
of sectors and institutions. The newly established preferential rates currently
stand at 28-302 The table shows significant reductions in interest subsidies
relative to the situation in mid-April 1990 and a substantial reduction in the
dispersion of interest rates across sectors.   Furthermore, given projected
inflation of 20-251, preferential rates would be positive in real terms.
86.         This interest rate policy will apply to all housing finance programs,
except for those covered by the Ley de Politica Babitacional which enjoy lower
fixed rates.   Mortgage relief provided through budgetary allocation may be
granted, as long as the total interest rate received by the first-tier financial
institution is in accordance with the above guidelines on banking or preferential
interest rates. No other interest rate limitations will apply to banks, finance
companies and S&Ls.
87.         Second-tier Lending Rates. In the LSP, the Government has indicated
that second-tier lending by government-owned financial intermediaries (including
BANAP). will be channelled to first-tier institutions at no less than the average
cost of remuerated deposits of the commercial banking system. This will ensure
that incentives for resource mobilization prevail. First-tier institutions will
absorb the entire credit risk of final borrowers.
88.         Portfolio Requirements on Commercial Banks. The Government is aware
of the distortions caused by forcing commercial banks to lend a share of their
portfolio to agriculture at preferential interest rates, and to finance these
subsidies from their own resources. Accordingly, the LSP indicates the
Government's commitment to a medium-term policy of eliminating all directed
credit. The agricultural portfolio requirement was reduced by a Presidential
Decree from 22.52 to 17.52 in May 1990, and will be further reduced to 12? by
third tranche release.
89.         Modifications to the BCV Law.  In order to institutionalize the
changes in interest rate policy brought about by administrative action, changes
in the BCV Law are desirable. These modifications would eliminate the obligation
to set minimum deposit rates and maximum lending rates and permit the BCV Board
to administer preferential interest rates of the development funds. Accordingly,
the Government has agreed to present to Congress by release of the second tranche
proposed modifications to the Central Bank Law uesianed to: (i) extend to the
BCV the power to regulate interest rates of all government-owned financial
intermediaries (including banks and funds): and (ii) eliminate the BCV's
obligation to establish interest rate limits for banks and non-bank financial
intermediaries, and thus allow interest rates to be determined by the market.
With this legal reform, the Government's current policy of not interfering with
financial market conditions will be strengthened. At the same time, the setting
of preferential and other administrative rates will be centralized at the BCV,



- 27 -
which should facilitate further future reductions, and the ultimate elimination
of, interest rate subsidies.
Reduction of Public Sector Participation in the Financial System
90.         Privatization of Commercial Banks owned by the BCV.  In order to
eliminate the BCV's participation in commercial banking, the Government has
issued a resolution indicating its intention to privatize the three banks owned
by the BCV, and has already prepared preliminary valuations of their net worth.
In the LSP the Government has agreed to take all actions necessary to divest its
stake in these banks. All three banks will have been brought to the goint of
sale prior to the release of the second tranche. To this effect, the Government
shall have completed the valuation and tender or bidding documents pertaining
to the sale of these banks to the satisfaction of the Bank, and will have issued
these bidding documents to prospective purchasers. By third tranche. each of
these banks will have been divested from the public sector.
91.         Restructuring or Liguidation of Other Public, Commercial Banks. In
addition to the 3 commercial banks owned by BCV, the Government owns 6 other
commercial banks: BIV, the four regional banks owned by BIV, and BANDAGRO. BIV
and BANDAGRO are not viable institutions in their present state. Accordingly,
the Government has decided to liquidate BANDAGRO and to restructure BIV and its
four regional banks. As a short-term measure, as a condition for first tranche
release the Government will issue a resolution forbidding BIV and BANDAGRO from
engaging in ew lending ogerations by requiring that all new deposits and loan
recov_ries be invested in securities of the BCV or the Treasury. BIV's lending
will only resume once its restructuring is substantially under way.
92.         Prior to second tranche the Government will present to Congress a
Law mandating the liquidation of BANDAGRO within a specified time frame. AX
second tranche. the Government will also submit a plan acceptable to the Bank
specifyina the future role envisioned for BIV. and the actions to be taken for
its restructuring or liquidatilon. The plan should include: mechanisms for asset
valuation and sales, a schedule for amortization of losses and debt subrogation,
a revised organizational structure and staffing plan, new lending operating
procedures, measures to enhance accountability, and the schedule of resumption
of BIV's lending activities. The plan will also analyze the situation of the
four regional banks owned by BIV and decide on their future.   Satisfactory
progress in carrying out this plan will be reviewed prior to third tranche
release.
93.         Restructuring BANAP. Prior to second tranche release, the Government
will submit a plan acceptable to the Bank to restructure and promote the
financial independence of BAN&P.   The plan will contain a phasing-out of
government, BCV and any external sources of funding of BANAP, and will define
its policies regarding its financial support of S&Ls. Satisfactory progress in
carrying out this plan will be reviewed prior to third tranche release.
94.         Streamlining the Development Banking Functions Carried out by the
Govertment. The Government is aware of the need to reorganize the DFI subsector
in order to increase efficiency and create incentives so that DFIs increasingly
respond to market conditions. These institutions should have the following
objectives: (i) to operate principally as second-tier financial intermediaries,
(ii) to lend at market rates of interest, (iii) to assist clients through



- 28 -
technical assistance, transfer of technology and dissemination of market
knowledge, and (iv) to compete for private sources of funds. To accomplish these
objectives, the Government has defined in the LSP the role of the major
development banks and funds and the main steps that will be taken to start their
restructuring.
95.         The Government recognizes the duplication created by the existence
of multiple development banks and funds.   As a means of consolidating and
sharpening the focus of development credit, prior to second tranche release the
Government will present action plans acceptable to the Bank for the formation
of two second-tier credit institutions, one for agriculture and one for industry,
and for the liquidation of BANDAGRO in conjunction with the creation of the new
agricultural credit fund. These two new institutions will absorb the operations
of the largest funds. The new agricultural credit fund will absorb the FCA and
the lending activities of the Fruit Development Fund (FDF) and the Coffee Fund
(FONCAPE). The new industrial credit fund will absorb FONCREI, FINTEC, and the
second-tier lending activities of FIV. By second tranche release the Government
will submit to Congress proposed laws for the creation of two second-tier credit
institutions (for agriculture and industry, respectively), and for the closure
of those existing funds that will be absorbed by the two new institutions. Prior
to third tranche release, the Government will demonstrate satisfactory progress
in the formation of these two consolidated second-tier credit institutions, and
in the liquidation of BANDAGRO. These two new funds will depend from the MH and
will be supervised by the SBIF. In each case, commercial banks will be required
to take on the entire credit risk of the final borrower for rediscounted lines
of credit.
96.         In addition to these second-tier funds, the Government owns two
first-tier development funds: the Credit Institute for Agriculture and Livestock
(ICAP) provides credits to small farmers, and CORPOINDUSTRIA which lends to small
and medium industry and to artisans. In light of their focus on segments of the
economic agents that would find access to bank credit difficult at least in the
first phase of the financial reform program, these funds will remain as separate
entities.    Relative  to  the  commercial  banking  system,  these  funds  are
insignificant. The Government will prepare prior to second tranche action plans
for the restructuring of CORPOINDUSTRIA and ICAP. The plans will assess the need
for first-tier lending through these institutions. BY the time of release of
the third tranche. the Bank will ensure that satisfactory Progress is being made
in the implementation of these plans.
Rationalization of the BCV's Credit Operations
97.         The BCV's credit operations will be rationalized under the current
reform program so as to increase their transparency and reduce their negative
quasi-fiscal effects. In broad terms, this will be achieved by: (i) pricing
BCV credit according to market conditions; (ii) reducing the BCV's intermediary
roe by forcing financial institutions to seek liquidity in the money market,
allowing public entities to invest their funds directly in the capital markets
instead of placing them in trust at the BCV, and privatizing the three commercial
banks owned by the BCV; and (iii) limiting more strictly the Treasury's access
to BCV financing of its operations.
98.         Credit Operations with the Government.  The BCV's credit operations
with the Government are obscured by:   (i) its holdings of zero-coupon non-



- 29 -
negotiable T-bills; and (ii) the exclusion from the credit ceiling of some
categories of Government debt.   Under the current reform program, proposed
amendments to the Ley Oradnica de Credito Plblico will be presented to Congress
by second tranche to allow the Treasury to issue negotiable fixed-term T-bills
that need not be repaid within the fiscal Xear in which they are issued. The
revised Law shall explicitly allow market determination of interest rates on
T-bills, and will abolish the preferential placement provisions currently
contained in the Law. The BCV will purchase T-bills in the secondary market,
or, on a residual basis, in primary auctions at the average clearing price. In
the interim, the BCV has agreed not to purchase any more zero-yield T-bills
after Board presentation. Also by second tranche. revisions to BCV's Law will
be presented to Congress to allow the BCV to Purchase these T-bills subiect to
the overall credit limit for the Government.   This limit will be made to
encompass all forms of foreign debt or any kind of claims on, or rights to,
government debt.  The lending limit will not tL- raised over the level contained
in t:he current law, but debt arising from the ongoing external public debt
redu,ction and restructuring program will be excluded from this limit on a
transitory basis. Finally, the use of T-bills as a reserve asset by banks in
satisfaction of the reserve requirement will be eliminated.   Accordingly,
revisions to the Bank Law will be submitted to Consress by third tranche
requiring reserve requirements to be held exclusively in liabilities of the BCV
and not in T-bills.
99.         These reform measures are designed to strengthen the Treasury's
fiscal discipline and improve the financial condition of the BCV. In addition,
they will allow the BCV to use T-bills in the future as an instrument of monetary
regulation through open market operations. The introduction of BCV bills in
November 1989 allowed open market operations to be used for monetary management.
In the future, however, the BCV should move towards trade in T-bills rather than
BCV bills in order to avoid the quasi-fiscal implications of the latter.
100.        Credit Operations with Financial Intermediaries.  The BCV's credit
operations with financial intermediaries currently take three forms:
Mi) advances, rediscounts and repurchase agreements (heretofore referred to
together as the rediscount facility) backed by government or private instruments;
(ii) credit portfolio purchases; and (iii) purchases of banks' financial
liabilities. The Government intends to restrict use of the rediscount facility,
eliminate all portfolio purchases by the BCV, and tighten the conditions for
purchases of bank liabilities. Aside from streamlining the BCV's operations and
enhancing its financial position, these measures are designed to promote the
development of money and capital markets. Given that banks are potentially large
players in these markets,  forcing them to seek liquidity outs-de the BCV will
act as a catalyst for their development.
101.        As the LSP indicates, under the reform program the rediscount window
will be used as a temporary liquidity support facility.   While the BCV is
developing its open-market capabilities. rediscounts may also be used in the near
future as an instrument of monetary expansion (e.g. to accommodate seasonal
demand for credit). However, the BCV intends to only use the rediscount facility
for monetary control purposes if it is not able to achieve the same effect
through its open market operations. In no case will the rediscount window be
used for sectoral incentive purposes.



- so -
102.        To ensure this transformation of the rediscount window, the BCV has
implemented or will implement a number of reforms. First, a BCV Board resolution
was issued in May 1990 mandating that all general rediscounts (including to
FOGADE and BANAP) be offered at the same rate, which will be linked to the wield
on BCV bills auctioned.  The rediscount rate will be reviewed at least weekly
and in no case will be set below the yield on BCV bills auctioned. A special
rediscount rate, equal to 852 of the general rediscount rate, will be maintained
for rediscounting of agricultural documents. This special rediscount rate will
be phased out in step with the program for reduction of agricultural interest
rate subsidies. Second, the BCV Board also issued in May 1990 instructions to
the Vice-president for monetary operations establishing procedures for automatic
referral of large or frequent borrowers to the SBIF for review. Third, the BCV
Board will issue a resolution, prior to second tranche, switching to market (or
equivalent) valuation of the underlying security or the collateral on rediscount
contracts. Fourth, a oronosed revision to the BCV Law will be submitted to
Congress by second tranche to restrict individual rediscount contracts with
financial intermediaries to a maximum duration of 30 days.
103.        The indirect forms of BCV credit to the financial system will be
curtailed. Credit portfolio purchases by the BCV will be eliminated, with a
BCV Board resolution to this effect being passed before second tranche release.
The BCV will also pass a resolution by second tranche requiring that all
purchases of private debt instruments from any source by the BCV be priced at
market value.   The resolution will specify that in no case will financial
instruments be bought at a yield less than that offered on BCV bills in the
secondary market at the time of purchase of the instruments.101
104.        Portfolios Managed in Trust by the BCV.  The BCV's intermediation
role will be reduced by disengaging the external portfolios it currently manages.
As a transitory measure, the BCV issued in May 1990 a resolution terminating
direct transactions of securities at face value by portfolios managed in trust
by the BCV. The only exception which will be permitted in the future will be
the sale at face value back to the BCV of securities purchased at face value
prior to Board presentation. In this way, the managed portfolios' holdings of
government paper will yield market returns, thereby arresting the chronic
decapitalization they have been suffering.   Ultimately, the BCV's trustee
functions should be discontinued, and the public entities should administer their
portfolios  directly,  with appropriate profitability  targets.    The  trust
portfolios can then become institutional investors and as such can become
important players in the development of money and capital markets. To implement
the divestment of the administered portfolios, the BCV will submit a program to
the Bank before second tranche release Presenting the actions to be taken
(including required executive And legislative changes). and the timing of these
actions.   Annex rX outlines the information requirement and content of the
disengagement program. Only the Foreign Exchange Guarantee Fund (FICAM) will
remain under BCV management. As part of this program, the BCV has submitted a
notice to the Venezuelan Petroleum Company (PDVSA) of non-renewal of the
management contract upon expiration of the current contract at the end of 1990,
and FOGADE's wortfolio will be disengaged by third tranche release. This will
101   If by second tranche release the secondary BCV bill market is still
nonexistent or is deemed to be too thin, the yield on BCV bill auctions
in primary issues will be used for this purpose.



- 31 -
require submi9sion to Congress by third tranche of oronosed revislons to the
FOGADEIs Law, which currently mandates it to olace all its funds at the IAY.
105.        The spirit of the reform is that all subsidy programs should flow
through the national budget, and should not originate In the BCV's operations.
Therefore, a final area of reform concerning the BCV is that it will not finance
the housing subsidies directly either with its profits or with direct
contributions.  Any housing subsidies envisioned in the LI= de Proteccion del
Deudor HiDotecario will be channeled only through the national budget.
Reform gf the Ra2g"atory Framerk and- ImMMrovmnt in Blank Sunrvis ion
106.        StiXengtbening the Operational Effectivnepgs and the Functional
AUtonmy of the Main Regulators. In the past there has been a lack of clarity
on the role of the BCV, the NH, the SBIP, and FOGADE with respect to their
functions as regulators of financial intermediaries. Under the loan, the legal
framework will be revised and amended in order to clarify their roles. The broad
objective is to enhance accountability by: (i) establishing clear functions and
responsibilities; (ii) increasing the organizational, functional and budgetary
autonomy of each agency or institution; (lii) insuring that all the required
regulatory functions are being performed by one of the institutioos; (iv) clearly
specifying reporting and authorization procedures; and (v) avoiding duplication
of efforts and responsibilities.
107.        Under the reform, the autonomy and authority of the SBIF will be
strengthened. In addition to monitoring compliance with regulations, its bank
surveillance and examination capabilities will be geared towards evaluating the
condition of individual banks and of the banking system generally. FOGADE will
continue to be responsible for guaranteeing bank deposits. FOGADE's functions
will be upgraded so as to become the prim, vehicle for resolving bank crises,
and it will be responsible for derigning bank rescue operations. In addition,
its functions will be expanded to include the liquidation of institutions,
currently the domain of the SBIF. The regulatory and formal approval powers of
MH will be eliminated.   It will not have any executive functions in the
operations of the SBIF and FOGADE, although it will exercise oversight over these
institutions. The role of the BCV will also be changed to strengthen monetary
control and reduce deficit financing functions.   Its support of financial
institutions will be restricted to the provision of liquidity in cases where
solvency is not impaired. The LSP outlines the Government's intentions regarding
the specific tasks to be undertaken by each institution.
108.        Strengthening Prudential Regulations. Auditing. and Information
Digglosure. Improved regulation and supervision is needed to: (i) improve the
transparency of bank financing, (ii) improve asset quality and capital adequacy,
(iii) regulate loans to related parties and loan concentration, (iv) ensure that
banks compete according to a uniform set of rules and accounting standards, and
(v) liquidate those institutions that may be insolvent. As outlined in the LSP,
the Government has agreed to undertake a major overhaul of the prudential
regulations under the discretion of the SBIF. As a first step, by first tranche
release the SBIP will igsue the changes reagired to tighten regulations on: loaI
classification. provisioning. roll-over of credits and accrual of interest.
charge-offs. evaluation of investfent ootflios. and evaluation of property
received as collateral. The SBIF will. bq second tranche. issue and implement
all changes required to reulat2 the following areas: lending concentration and



- 32 -
lending to relatgd parties and insiders. controls on intra-groun transactions.
consolidation of accounts of financial groups. uniform publication criteria of
financial  statements, and valuation of foreign exchange risk.   Annex VI
highlights the more important aspects of these regulations, and policies to be
adopted for their implementation.
109.        In order to improve auditing procedures and information disclosure,
by the time of release of the first tranche the SBIF will issue clear audit
guidelines for banks soecifving requirements for auditing of loan quality and
loan concentration. The SBIF will require banks to direct auditors to include
assessments in these areas in their audits. By third tranche, the SPIF will
issue a new chart of accounts which will facilitate full disclosure of the
financial condition of banks according to transparent accounting criteria. The
following aspects will be treated in the new chart of accounts: a system for loan
portfolio classification, a policy to register overdue interest, provisioning
guidelines, and criteria to revalue securities and measure foreign exchange risk,
among others. Also by third tranche, the SBIF will issue audit guidelines to
complement and expand those developed by Board presentation. The guidelines will
specify the scope, content and format of audits in accordance with the new chart
of accounts.  Further, by third tranche, the SBIF will begin to publish and
distribute publicly a monthly bulletin disclosing financial statements and
indicators of individual financial institutions and of the financial system as
a whole. Such indicators will include measures of capital adequacy, lending
concentration, loan portfolio quality and adequacy of provisions.
110.        The Government has agreed to consolidate the overhaul of prudential
regulations by proposing to Congress changes in the Bank Law and by proposing
to Congress a new Law of the SBIF.  By second tranche the Government will submit
to Congress for its apnroval a groposed Law of the SBIF which will tighten norms
on -canital reguirements. Ilendin  concentration and intra-grou  transactions.
internal control mechanisms. and will widen the scooe of nonoecuniary sanctions
and fines. Annex VI lists some of the required changes in the proposed SBIF Law
and discusses additional required changes in the Bank Laa.
111.        Improving the Ooerations and Autonomy of the SBIF.  Upgrading the
institutional capacity at SBIF will be pivotal in the enforcement of the
administrative  and  legal  regulations  indicated  above.    These  include:
(i) significant improvement in on-site inspection; (ii) development of an
improved automated risk assessment system for credits, borrowers, banks and
economic activities; (iii) development and implementation of internal control
requirements by banks for risk management and to detect fraud; (iv) increased
emphasis on the financial analysis of banks rather than merely on compliance with
legal regulations; and (v) development of a close dialogue between SBIF and banks
to enforce public information disclosure. These reforms will be supported with
institutional strengthening through the TA component (detailed in Annex V) and
with changed in the SBIF's legal standing. Accordingly, as a condition of second
tranche the  oproosed Law of SBIF that will:   (i) reorganize the SBIF as an
autonomous entitv with its own sources of revenue (bank assessments based on tlle
volume of bank assets. and extraordinary contributions from the Treasurz) and
with a budget subject only to the approval of the BCV Board: (ii) eliminate the
MH's formal arnroval and decision-making functions in the operations of the SBIF:
and (ii) enhance the Superintendent's decision-making authority by stiRulating
that only bank liquidations and interventions and raising the minimum caDital
reguirement reauires approval Sy a Consultative Committee (composed of the



- 33 -
Minister of Finance, the Presidents of the BCV and FOGADE, and the
Superintendent).   By third tranche. the Government will submit to Congress
prooosed revisions to the Ba_k Law to ensure its consistency with the new
proposed SBIF Law and with the spirit of these reforms.
Imirovin- the Strength of Financial Intermediaries and Upgrading the Mechanisms
for Dealing with Problem Banks
112.        The Government recognizes that the financial condition of the banking
system is weaker than reported. In an attempt to identify and attack insolvency
problems in a timely fashion, by first tranche release the SBIF will commission
or undertake studies of the financial condition of all orivate commercial banks
and selected mortgage banks and finance companies.  These studies will focus on:
portfolio review, fixod asset valuation, loan concentration and foreign exchange
losses. The studies will be comoleted to the Bank's satisfaction by the time
of second tranche release.
113.        Short-Term Measures Designed to Strengthen the Financial Condition
of Intermediaries. Given the lax regulatory and supervisory framework in the
past, the condition of many institutions is not adequately revealed by their
statements.   As an immediate short-term measure for increasing the basic
financial strength of institions, by first tranche release the SElF will issue
directives to banks to establish a general loan-loss grovision of at least 2%
of the total loAn gortfolio and to charfe off loans Rast due by more than 36
months. The directives include appropriate sanctions for non-compliance with
tUiese requirements. These measures will be fully implemented by third tranche
release, with an intermediate 1.5% general loan-loss provision being implemented
by second tranche release.   Also by second tranche, the SBIF will require
additional provisions and charge-offs for those banks which the studies reveal
are in need of additional strengthening measures. Provisions established in
accordance with a new loan classification system would be counted against the
2% general provision, Charged-off loans will be taken off the balance sheet and
written off against any specific attached provisions already created and
ultimately against capital. By second and third tranche releases, tis SBIF will
submit evidence to the Bank that these requirements are being adequately
enforced. Further, by second tranche the SBIF will prepare a program acceptable
to the Bank for the amortization of the foreign exchange losses assessed in the
course of its studies. The recognition of these losses will help reveal the true
financial condition of intermediaries and will help force recapitalization.
114.        The Government recognizes that existing requirements for entry of
new banks are too lenient and that new banks should not be entering the market
while the SBIF is being strengthened and the condition of the banking system is
not known with more precision. As a result, another immediate short-term measure
indicated in the LSP is that the MH will stop issuing licenses for opening new
banks until the SBIF is strengthened. is capable of adecuately scrutinizing
aoplications for new bank licenses. and is able to determine the real financial
condition of the banking system.
115.        It is expected that some troubled institutions will be identified
as these short-term measures are implemented and as prudential regulations and
accounting standards are stiffened. These will be handled jointly by FOGADE and
the SBIF through the mechanisms institutionalized in this reform process. The



34 -
increased transparency of the problems will help to prompt support for the
necessary actions.
116.        Imgrovinx the Mechanisms for Managins and Solving Bank Crises.  A
key element of the reform program is the establishment of clear and efficient
mechanism for handling bank crises.  The provision of workable exit mechanisms
is an integral part of any liberalization program to the extent thats
(i) competition cannot be expected to result in greater discipline unless
institutions are forced to bear the cost of their actions; and (li) a more open
entry policy that is not accompanied with exit or consolidation devices will
result in an undue bloating of the financial system.  The LSP indicates the
policies and procedures that will be imolemented for the mansaement of ban)k
crises.
117.        The guidelines for handling bank crises are detailed in Annex VII.
In essence, while the shareholders, incapacity or unwillingness to act in a case
of insolvency has not yet been determined, the SBIF will assume the leadership
in evaluating and/or intervening in the bank. The SCV will provide the necessary
financial support with liquidity credits at market rates as long as solvency is
not deemed to be impaired.   At this stage the SB1F will fully inform and
coordinate closely with FOGADE. Once the SBIP has determined that there is a
fundamental solvency problem and that rehabilitation is both feasible and cheaper
than satisfying the deposit guarantee, it will refer the case to FOGADE by
intervening the bank, reducing capital to the extent of losses, and offering a
capital subscription to POADE. At that point, FOGADE will assume leaderships
the SBSF will stop the intervention, and the BCV will no longer provide liquidity
support. FOGADE, acting as majority owner of the bank, will provide financial
support and will restructure the bank's operational and administrative
procedures. It will be authorized to purchase assets from tne bank or provide
loans, both of which will be priced at market value. Concessional assistance
will only take the form of additional capital subscriptions by OGADE. FOGADE
will be required to sell its ownership stake in any bank within a year of
purchasing it.
118.        These new procedures will be implemented early on in the reform
process subject to the restrictions imposed by the current legal framework.
Strengthening the process is essential so that the authorities can deal
effectively with any problem banks that are identified in the process of
upgrading the regulatory, supervisory and accounting framework. The second step
envisioned under the loan is to consolidate these new procedures into the legal
framework. This will help strengthen confidence in the system and will prevent
back-sliding in the administrative gains achieved.
119.        Accordingly, the Bank Law to be revised and submitted to Congress
by third tranche. will establish: (i) the events or conditions that will trigger
action by the authorities. (ii) the nature and seauencinQ of these actions, and
(Uii) the role of the resulatorv institutions at each stage. In addition, for
FOGADE to stand up to the new role envisioned under this program, some
fundamental reforms are nwwessary in its legal framework and financial position.
Revisions to FOGADE's Law will be submitted to Contress by second tranche.
Annez VIII details the necessary changes in FOGADE's Law. These changes can be
grouped under five categoriess (i) clearly delineating its functions (allowing
it to act in liquidationst more detailed rehabilitation guidelines);
(ii) enhancing its powers (procedures for gaining control of banks; reduction



- 35 -
in required approvals); (iii) a new more independent organizational structure
(more independence from the National Executive; clear reporting channels with
the SBIF); (iv) eudowing it with more adequate and transparent sources of
financing (requiring government contributions; charging market rates for BCV
credit); and Cv) clarifying FOGADE's accounting and control standards (use of
accounting criteria dictated by the SBIF; losses should be reported in a
transparent fashion). These changes in FOGADE's operational framework will be
incorporated into the institution's manual for internal procedures (Realamento
Interno), which will be revised to the Bank's satisfaction prior to the release
of the third tranche.   Specifically, the Realamento will incorporate those
principles established in Annexes VII and VIII that are consistent with the law
in effect at that time.
120.        It is not possible at this stage to evaluate the financial condition
of FOGADE because of the lack of transparency in its accounting (a balance sheet
as of end-1989 is contained in Annex VIII). It holds fixed assets and credit
portfolios acquired either in the course of (or in repayment for) bank assistance
operations, or from the BCV upon its creation. These assets are all valued at
the original purchase price, which in turn was given in most cases by the nominal
value in the sellers' books. Given that there is no assessment of the current
market value or collection prospects of these assets, WOGADE will be required
by second tranche to contract an independent study of its asset quality according
to the new guidelines issued by the SBIF. On the basis of this analysis, FOGADE
and the Dank will jointly analyze the needs for additional capital injections
to FOGADE by the Treasury. By third tranche release, the Government will have
drawn up a plan. accevtable to the Bank. establishing the targets and schedule
for the full recapitalization of FOGADE. Monthly canital contributions will have
been made by the Treasury beginning in January 1991. By third tranche release,
the total value of these canital contributions will be at least equsl to 5OZ of
the capital losses detected at FOGADE.
121.        In order to minimize the loss of market discipline inherent in any
deposit protection scheme, FOGADE will undertake a campaign to publicize the
types of financial institutions and deposits that are covered by its guarantee,
and the maximum deposit coverage. This publicity campaign, to be performed prior
to second tranche release, will focus in particular on the fact that liquid asset
funds are not covered.
Enhancint the Competitive Environment for Financial Intermediaries
122.        In order to reverse the current fragmentation and lack of dynamism
in the financial markets, by third tranche the Government will propose to
Congress modifications to the Bank Law to enhance competition amona
intermediaries and substantially liberaiize banking activities and foreian
ownership. First, proposed revisions to the Bank Law will mermit the creation
of universal banks and will allow commercial banks to undertake transactions
previously limited to mortga,e banks and finance companies. Second, proposed
revisions will establish the same capital reauirement for all commercial banks.
mortgage banks and finance companies. The new reauirement will be asset based,
and a minimum 5Z equity-to-total assets ratio will be established in the proposed
Law. The Law should allow in the future the risk-weighting of assets and the
inclusion of some contingencies for purposes of calculation of this ratio.
Third, a proposed revision to the Bank Law will increase the minimum capital
requirement for entry to at least the equivalent of US$6 million for commercial



- 36 -
and mortgage banks. The Superintendent could be allowed to raise (but not to
reduce) the minimum capital threshold at his discretion. Fourth, in order to
facilitate consolidation of institutions, the SBIF will revamp its mechanisms
for reviewing and approving requests for mergers among financial institutions.
123.        Recognizing that competition from  foreign banks can se.ve to
reinvigorate the local banking system and can promote the modernization of
banking practices, the Government has accepted the need to allow a greater degree
of foreign participation in the banking system. Accordingly, by third tranche
revisions to the Bank Law will be submitted to Congress to: (i) allow up to 20S
foreign ownership of local commercial banks (with discretion being granted to
the Executive to increase this to 302); and (ii) allow the National Executive
to authorize foreigners to acquire up to full ownership of f;nancial institutions
other than commercial banks.   The National Executive establish regulatory
criteria for the functioning of foreign-owned non-bank financial institutions.
As the LSP indicates, the establishment of these operational criteria is not
intended to discourage foreign investment in these institutions.
124.        Once financial institutions adapt to a new environment of market-
determined signals, informatiun disclosure and close supervision, there will
likely emerge a system composed of a smaller number of institutions with a
stronger capital base that will find sufficient incentives to decrease costs
and increase efficiency.
Technical Assistance Component
125.        The Technical Assistance (TA) component is designed to assist ins
the restructuring of government-owned banks and funds; strengthening the
regulatory agencies including the SEIF, FOGADE, BANAP, and the Superintendency
of Insurance Companies; and assisting in the development of capital markets.
In addition, the TA component will provide funds to a temporary coordinating unit
in the BCV which will be established to oversee the progress of the financial
sector adjustment program and to implement the technical assistance component.
126.        Assistance under the TA component will be provided in some or all
of the following areas:   (i) development of a new legal and/or executive
regulatory framework; (ii) reorganization of institutions' structure and internal
policies and procedures; (iii) development of training programs; (iv) funding
of special studies; and (v) upgrading of information systems, including the
procurement of equipmtent.
127.        The studies that will be financed under the TA component include
among others:  (a) external audits of commercial banks and selected mortgage
banks and finance companies; (b) -' ,tnalysis of the market value of assets under
FOGADE' s management/sale; (c) evaLuation of the financial condition of individual
S&Ls and BANAP; (d) a study on the regulatory norms on insurance companies and
the design of a new supervision system; (e) restructuring options for BIV;
(f) the creation of the two second-tier development funds and liquidation options
and procedures for BANDAGRO; (g) action plans to restructure ICAP and
CORPOINDUSTRIA; and (h) analysis of the functioning of Venezuelan capital
markets. These studies will become the basis for policy actions, and hence they
are an integral part of the reform process.



- 37 -
128.        Annex V details the assistance program, including a schedule of
estimated costs. The total cost will be US$7.0 million, which will be allocated
as  follows:     US$4.02 million  for  SBIF,  US$0.35 million  for  FOGADE,
US$0.21 million for BANAP, US$0.45 million for the Superintendency of Insurance
Companies, US$1.8 million to support the restructuring of public sector financial
intermediaries, US$0.25 million for legal support, and US$0.20 million to support
a study of capital markets. US$0.10 million will remain unallocated.
PART V - WAN FRATIRES
Loan Amount. Borrower and Implementing Agency
129.        The Bank would support the financial sector reform program with a
fast disbursing loan of US$300 million. The loan would include the financing
of complementary technical assistance. The borrower would be the Government of
Venezuela, and the implementing agency would be the BCV. The Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) will cofinance this operation.
LetteX of Sectoral Policy
130.        The basis for the loan is provided by a LSP (Annex III) in which the
Government declares its commitment to adopt and implement the previously
mentioned reforms. In particular, this letter: (i) describes the Government's
macroeconomic and financial sector objectives, (ii) indicates the reforms
intended to meet these objectives; and (iii) presents a timetable for the
implementation of these reforms.
Loan Disbursement and Procurement
131.        Loan proceeds would be disbursed under the following categories: (i)
financing of debt reduction (25% of the proceeds or US$75 million), (ii) three
tranches for import financing (first tranche US$71 million, second tranche US$71
million, and third tranche US$76 million), and (iii) the TA component (US$7
million). The conditions for tranche release are listed in Annex II. Funds for
debt-reduction would be available upon loan effectiveness and agreement between
the Bank and the Government on a debt-reduction program satisfactory to the Bank.
After February, 28, 1991 unused funds for debt-reduction can be reallocated in
equal portions to the three import financing tranches. The import financing
component of the loan would be disbursed upon fulfillment of the corresponding
specific tranche conditions, and would be used to finance 100% of the c.i.f.
costs of general imports not contained in a negative list. Ineligible imports
comprise goods financed by other multilateral or bilateral sources, luxury goods
and goods intended for military use. No more than 15% of the loan amount can
be disbursed for imports of foodstuffs. Retroactive financing in the amount of
US$60 million would be available for eligible expenditures incurred after
March 31, 1990. IDB funds would be released in three equal tranches subject to
compliance with conditionality as agreed under this operation. The TA component
would finance 100% of the local and foreign costs of approved expenditures.
132.        Procurement will be carried out in accordanc  with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. All contracts for the procurement of general imports
to cost the equivalent of US$5.0 million or more shall be awarded through
simplified international competitive bidding. Contracts of the private sector
costing over US$1 million and under the equivalent of US$5.0 million would be



- 38 -
procured following established commercial practices which should include whenever
possible requiring two quotations from eligible bidders from at least two foreign
countries. Contracts of the private sector costing less than US$1 million would
be procured according to commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. Public
sector contracts below US$5 million would be procured according to limited
international competitive bidding or shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank.
To ensure the acceptability of the procedures, the Bank will exercise strong gS
Rost supervision. The procurement of equipment under the TA component costing
the equivalent of US$50,000 or less would be made through local or international
shopping; above US$50,000 they would be made through Limited International
Bidding (LIB). All LIB would have prior review in the Bank. Consultants to be
financed with the proceeds of the loan will be employed in accordance with the
principles and procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
133.       The BCV will be responsible for maintaining loan accounts, and for
preparing and submitting withdrawal applications.   Disbursements from the
proposed loan would be made on the basis of a summary from ZV detailing
individual import transactions in each relevant period, together with a
certification of payments of the amounts involved, and of their eligibility
under the loan. Applications for withdrawals will be consolidated and submitted
in amounts not less than US$1 million.
134.       The BCV will maintain separate accounts to record and monitor loan
disburs_mnts and repayments. All records and accounts in support of statements
of expenditures financed under the proposed loan will be made available to Bank
missions and will be audited each year in accordance with sound auditing
principles by independent auditors acceptable to IBRD.
Benefits and Risks
135.       Benefits.   The proposed operation would increase the overall
efficiency of the financial system and thus enhance its ability to finance
investment and growth. This would result from increased resource mobilization,
improved credit allocation, and a lower cost of credit. The proposed reforms
will contribute to these goals by: (i) enhancing competition in the financial
sector with the liberalization of interest rates, credit allocation, and the
participation of foreign banks; (iI) enhancing the transparency of the condition
of intermediaries and depositor confidence in the intermediaries through improved
prudential regulation and sqpervision of banks; (iii) reducing inefficiencies
created by the excessive Government ownership participation in the banking
system; and (iv) providing adequate mechanisms for dealing with banking distress.
136.       'While it is very difficult to isolate the impact of the proposed
reforms from the influence of other economic policies, the major contribution
of the reform program in the modium term will be derived from the enhanced
financial/monetary stability and fiscal discipline induced by the reforms. In
this respect, the reforms are an integral part of the stabilization effort.
137.       The proposed reforms are expected to have a positive social impact.
On the one hand, interest rates will rise following the liberalization of
commercial banking rates and the streamlining of the preferential interest rate
structure.  However, this will be offset by the following factors:  (i) the



- 39 -
expansion in the range of eligible borrowers as credit programs are rationalized
and widened; (iU) the elimination of credit rationing in formal credit markets,
so that small borrowers need not go to informal markets where they might pay
exorbitant rates; (iii) enhanced small deposit protection with the strengthening
of financial institutions and of FOGADE as a last recourse; and (iv) the
reduction in intermediation spreads which represents a tax on mobilized
resources.
138.        Risks. Given the complex nature and political implications of many
of the proposed reforms, there is a risk of some delays in the implementation
of the reform program.   However, the momentum created by the macroeconomic
reforms successfully carried out to date, coupled with the recognition within
the administration, the Congress, and financial markets of the need for the
reform, will help sustain the process. A special coordinating unit has been
created within the BCV which, among other functions, will garner support for the
reforms. In order to reduce potential political opposition to the reforms, high-
ranking Government officials have been holding discussions with key members of
Congress to ensure support for the proposed legal changes. A further risk,
although slight in the case of Venezuela, is that failure to maintain
macroeconomic stability could endanger the success of financial sector reform
measures. To reduce this risk, loan conditionality will stipulate that for each
tranche release the Bank shall be satisfied that the macroeconomic framework is
consistent with the financial sector reform objectives.
PART VI - CONTY ASSISTANCE SR=EY AND  AN  OPERATIONS
139.        After a 15-year hiatus in its lending relationship with Venezuela,
the Bank in FY89 initiated a substantial program to support the Government's
efforts to create a policy environment for sustainable growth.  The Bank's
current focus is on sustaining and deepening the policy reforms already started.
Increasingly, the Bank's focus will shift toward investment lending in the social
sectors, public infrastructure, and environment.
History of Bank Assistance
140.        Between 1961 and 1974, the Bank approved 13 loans to Venezuela,
totalling US$383 million, of which US$342 was disbursed. IBRD loans to Venezuela
included support for agricultural development (two projects), transport (four
projects, including an airport loan), power (four projects, including part of
the Guri hydroelectric project), telecommunications (two projects), and water
supply (one project). Most projects were viewed a* relatively successful, and
funds were fully repaid as of June 1989.
141.        After the 1973 oil windfall, Venezuela chose not to borrow from the
Bank, and subsequently the country's per capita income increased to levels above
the Bank's graduation limit. However, the Bank maintained a Resident Mission
in Caracas through 1979 and provided technical assistance to help in the
appraisal of proposed projects ard in general economic analysis.
142.        The Bank's current role reflects a recent resumption of lending based
on the strength of the Government's economic program. However, confronted by
the onset of the debt crisis and a sustained decline in economic output in the
mid-1980s, Venezuela sought a renewed borrowing relationship with the Bank and
was declared eligible to borrow in 1986.   As described earlier, the new



- 40 -
administration of President P6rez introduced a strong program of economic reforms
and requested substantial technical and financial support from the Bank and the
Fund. The Bank responded with the US$402 million Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL) and the US$353 million Trade Policy Loan (TPL) approved in June 1989.
Bank Operational Strategy
143.        The Bank's operational strategy in Venezuela has two basic thrusts.
The first is to use adjustment lending operations to assist the Government in
sustaining and broadening the policy and institutional reform process. The SAL
and TPL have supported the basic policy changes required up front to reduce
distortions in the economy, increase the role of market forces in the allocation
of resources, and expose domestic producers to greater competition through trade
liberalization. The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan will support efforts to
strengthen and liberalize the financial sector. The Public Enterprise Reform
Loan, which is also expected to be approved in FY90, will support efforts to
redefine the role of the public sector in the economy and to maximize the
productive response to the adjustment program through restructuring of key state
enterprises, clarifying their relationship with the central Government,
eliminating the barriers to entry for private enterprises, and privatizing
selected enterprises. Assuming that efforts to sustain and broaden the reform
process are continued, additional lending has been planned for FY91 and rY92,
including an agricultural sector adjustment loan and a second loan for trade
policy reform. Through such adjustment lending, the Bank will help build an
economic environment in which market-determined prices can guide the efficient
allocation and utilization of resources, in both the public and private sectors.
These adjustments are important prerequisites for achieving greater efficiency
of public investment.
144.        With the basic policy reforms in place, attention should shift to
sector-specific issues which need to be tackled in the context of project
lending. The second basic thrust of our strategy is to build up a pipeline of
investment projects. The pace of preparation, appraisal, and implementation of
investment projects is likely to be slowed by the newness of our relationship
with Venezuela and the Government's inexperience with Bank requirements and
procedures. To facilitate the preparation of projects, a Technical Assistance
Loan (TAL) has been included in the FY90 program.  The planned shift toward
investment lending will begin in FY91.
145.        Our analysis indicates that the country is creditworthy for Bank
lending of about US$750 million per annum. The Bank's key contribution is likely
to be the assistance provided by Bank staff in designing and implementing the
investment projects.
Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending
146.        Trade. Finance and Industry.  Support to these sectors would seek
to consolidate the reforms begun with the TPL and to lay the groundwork to make
public and private enterprises more efficient.   Severe weaknesses in the
financial sector would be addressed in the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(FY90). With these under way, the stage would be set for the Private Sector
Restructuring Loan (FY91) intended to assist the restructuring of private sector
industry to cope with international competition.   The Second TPL (FY92) is



- 41 -
expected to support the completion of trade reform with emphasis on the reduction
of the level os protection over time and on export promotion measures.
147.        Agriculture.   It would be difficult to undertake viable lending
operations without first instituting some basic reforms. Currently there is an
interlocking and complex web of price supports, subsidies, directed credit at
highly subsidized interest rates and import and export controls. The Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (FY91), which will concentrate on liberalizing agriculture
trade and domestic pricing, is intended to set the stage for Bank project lending
in agricultural infrastructure and support services, possibly an Irrigation
Project (FY93).
148.        Infrastructure.  Institutional and financial reforms are under way
in some key agencies in the infrastructure sectors, but Bank assistance is deemed
necessary as many of these institutions will virtually have to be rebuilt. The
Water and Sewerage Project (FY93) while supporting the reorganization of the
sector upon the planned restructuring of INOS (a centralized water and sanitation
agency) will also finance high-priority investments in the sector. The Power
Distribution Project (FY92) is intended to support the decentralization of a
national utility company's distribution services, upon completion of the ongoing
sector reforms.
149.        Social Sectors and Environment.  The program for FY91 includes two
investment projects directed towards poverty alleviation and designed to
ameliorate the social impact of adjustment, particularly on the poorest and the
most vulnerable groups. The Social Development Project is designed to support
the nationwide expansion of a program for maternal-infant health and nutrition.
The Slum Upgrading Project (FY92) will improve the physical infrastructure and
basic services in poor urban neighborhoods. It is anticipated that such social
sector projects, with a strong poverty alleviation orientation, will have a
central place in the Bank's lending to Venezuela. Environment will be another
area of focus.   The Environmental Protection Project (FY93) will support
establishment of the country's legal and institutional framework for
environmental protection while helping to prepare and finance specitlc investment
projects to reverse the contamination of Lake Maracaibo and the Tuy River.
IFC Operations
150.        Because per capita income exceeded the Bank Group's graduation limit,
IFC was not active for several years in Venezuela.   However, IFC resumed
operations in Venezuela in the mid-1980s and now has an active program. Between
1960 and December 31, 1989, total gross commitments by IFC were US$162.3 million,
of which US$158.9 million were loans and US$3.4 million were equity. In the past
three years, IFC has moved quickly to make major investments in areas that had
previously been the preserve of the public sector.  In 1988, it approved an
investment to VENCEMOS for cement production; in 1989 it approved investments
to OPCO and PROPILVEN for hot-briquetted iron production and polypropylene
production, respectively.   IFC has directed its efforts at supporting the
Government's strategy of exploiting natural resources to support the balance of
payments and to diversify the economy.



- 42 -
PART EII - COLtABORATION  IM  TUE IM?
151.       There has been close coordination with the IMF in the preparation
of this proposed reform program. The Government requested technical assistance
from the Fund's Central Banking Department to help prepare a program for
financial sector reform. At the request of the Government, the Fund's technical
assistance mission and the Bank's preparation mission visited Caracas at the same
time to facilitate coordination. Close coordination was established between both
missions which resulted in very similar recommendations for reform. IMF staff
have been consulted at different stages during the preparation of the reform
program and have expressed their full support.   We expect to continue
collaborating closely with the Fund, not only in the design of the reform program
but also in the assessment of the appropriateness of macroeconomic management
for ensuring a stable environment required for the success of the operation.
PART VIII - RgCOYWKD&TION
152.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan wou'd comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend its approval y the Executive Directors.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
May 21, 1990



ENEZUELA - tey Nacroecnamic Indicators
.... ......... ................................
Debt Redution Scenorio
.....................................................................................................................................................
A      c t u a t     Pre(a. Esttimte    P r o j e c t i o n s
Key  rdicators  1J                       1964    1985    1986    1987    1968    1989    1990    199    1992    1993    1994    1995
eP Growth                                  -1.4K     0.31    5.2n     4.51    6.21   -8.1t      5.31    5.22    S.0K      4.31    4.3x    4.3
GT Growth                                   0.1X   -2.9s   -0.6"      s.2n    4.1X    *5.8s    S.        5.1X    S.21    5.0X      5.01    S.11
UDT/Cspita Growth tate                     -2.7X   -S.?%   -3.41    2.sx    1.51   -8.1K        3.21    2.7?    2.7K      2.7x    2.6"     2.9X
Private CownstioCqapita Growth Rate         n.s.   -S.1       7.11    0.41    3.5X    -7.1K     0.1X     0.3X    1.6X     1.2K     *.6%    2.2K
Debt Service (USS mittioar)              426.4  4290.S  49809.2  4669.0  4989.0  S1S2.0  4998.9  35.7  3787.1  473.7  4902.9  5S76.5
Debt Service/XGS                           27.2K    24.5K    42.41   37.2K    39.2K    34.SK    3. 11   20.2K    19.2K    21.51   20.2K    21.2K
Debt Service/DP                              .11    6.9S    s.2x   10.1    6.31    12.71    11.3         ?.71X    ?.S     8.5      8.01    8.41
Groe fixed Inestmnte  P                   14.0X    15.2X    20.31   21.8X   22.9%   17.3K    19.91   21.9K    23.71    24.6S   25.11   25.31
Deanstic SevingsCDP                        25.21   20.61    20.4K   23.1   20.6X   23.3K    25.01   25.9s   26.4X   27.51   28.2K   28.71
Natimnsi SIrigu/GDP                        22.OX    IS.2     17.3    19.9X    17.6X    17.11   20.7X   22.SX    23.31   24.51    25.41   26.0X
Raroinat Dometic Sawins Rate                 ..       ..      ..    4S.41    13.31   53.x   65.51   47.3x   3s.s5    38.9K    U."K   27.SX
PtMic Fixed Invetment/0P                    6.3X    6.41    12.11   10.6"    10.71   10.0K    113.5    12.31   12.9K    13.11   13.11   13.1K
P.Mic I ationdl Saviqs/UDP                 16.91X   17.3      2.31   10.3s    4.6X     9.6K    12.4K    16.31   18.4K    I8.71   18.91   19.21
Private Fixe  mestusnt/UP                   9.5K    10.4x    6.21   1l.2n   12.1K      ?.31    8.4K      9.6K    10.3    11.ts   12.OX   12.21
Private  atioatl Sains/P                    S.11   -2.6K     S."K    9.6K    13.0K     7.5s    8.01    6.2K      4.91    s.3       6.ss    6.3
Ratio of PMi/rfvate Intment                66.31   61.5K   147.2x   95.01   88.5X1   13.3  137.8   128.7   119.9   114.6s   10o.4   107.31
Oovarwt R"ewuws/P                          31.3    30.0X   26.11   28.91   24.4s    31.4x    U."    3s.ss   3r.4s   W7.5s   3V.4"    3.41
Cover,mnt UmpE nditures/UP                 2.31   25.21    3.    30.91   32.3    32.3    34.1n   33.01   33.51            3.5X   33.n1   32.3
Deficit (-) or Spiw (+)/GIP                 4.51    4.81   -2.6    -2.0K   -8.31   -1.4K    -O.S    2.SX    3.9%    4.11    4.31    4.71
mPtortroth Rte V                            5.       1.01    S. t.   -1.71t   7.9s    2.1X    9.4K      6.21n  S.9        5.n    S5        4.9.
Exparts/U   2/                             28.31   25.6    19.U    21.U    20.7    33.31   34.7    3S.1s   3SA6    36.21    3.4    3r.0
I_rt Orouthtbte 2/                         56.1K  -11.o0   21.5s    2.2x18s.    -33.02    3o.6x    I1."    103           6A       5.9      S.31
I_ots/U   2/                               17.0S   16.01   20.2    23.41   27.31   24.21   29.71   31.5K    33.3x   33.3    34.O0   34.01
Curren *ccemt CUSS NiWiho)               4580   364.0  -1S5S.0  -110.0  -0513.0  1889.0   332.0    62.0  448.4  -311.7  -111.s   189.1
Cwren Acesfet/P                             ?.9      6.01   -2.5X   -2.4K      7.51    4.11     o.s3    O.K     -0.91  -o."    -0.21    0.31
.....................................................................................................................................................
1/ All UP ratios  re at eurrnt prices.                                                                                                0/24190
2/ Expwrt an  ipowts of goods a  nan-factor services  matiamol Accounts).                                                            O4M PN
Io
o,



VEIEZUELA - SALANCE Of PAYMENTS
...............................
(USS Miltions at current prices)
...............................................................................................................................................................
A c t u a I   Prelim. Estimate    P r o j ec  t i o n s
196      198T     1988     1989      1990     1991     192      1993      1994     195      1996     1997      1998
................................................................................................................................ ............................................................................................... *vo.^ .e@J
A.  Imports of Goods & UfS                 10111.0  11279.0  11206.0  13S98.1  14682.3  16221.6  18024.S  20132.6  22306.3  2480.8  2725.3  30850.4  34385.4
1. lerhmdwie  (FOB)                       9122.0  10567.0  10269.0  12585.0  13561.1  14960.9  16651.4  18611.?  20701.6  23014.?  25M.0  26591.2  31899.7
2.  nm-factor sevtes                       969.0    712.0    937.0   1013.1   1121.2   1240.7  1373.0   1520.9  1684.7   186.1   2053.3  2259.2   2485.7
D.   laports of goods & IFS                10061.0  10880.0  13946.0  9196.2  12537.2  14S86.6  16867.3  18799.0  20794.4  2280.1  24959.3  2730.6  294.3
1. nercandise (FOB)                       782.0  8832.0  11414.0  7138.2  999.6  1128.6  13446.6  1496.3  165.2  18239.9  19697.5  21811.8  23911.3
2. Ian-factor servies                     2199.0  2048.0  2532.0  2060.0  2542.6  2958.3   3420.6  3811.?  4217.2  4640.2  5061.6  SS8.8   6062.9
C.  Resource klance                           50.0    399.0  -2740.0   400.0   2145.1   1634.8   1157.1   1337.S   1592.0  2000.8  2866.0  349.8   4391.1
0.  Net factor Imne                        -1483.0  -1374.0  `1650.0  -2374.0  -1673.0  -1432.8  -1465.6  -1S09.2  -1S63.S  -1671.7  -1685.8  *t660.8  -1S79.1
1. Factor Receipts                        1734.0   1411.0   1642.0  1472.0   1511.1   1616.    1811.6   1927.5  1M6S.?  1978.2  2028.0   2127.6   2214.1
2. factor Ps mnts                         3217.0   278.0  32S .0   386.0   3184.2   3046.8   3277.2   3436.?   3S32.2   3649.9   313.7  376.4    3M93.2
(interest pevuents)                    3095.0   2674.0   3082.0   3621.0  2927.3  2747.4   2925.6  3037.4  3080.S  314M.5   31SS.9   3170.9  S311.8
1.   let Current Trnsfer*                    -72.0   -`128.0   -123.0   -137.0  -140.0  -140.0    140.0  -140.0  -140.0  -140.0  -140.0 *140.0  *140.0
1. Current Receipts                           ..       ..        ..       ..       ..        ..       ..       ..       ..        ..       ..
2. Current P  ints                          72.0    128.0    12.       137.0    140.0    140.      140.0    140.0   140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0 >
f.   Current Accotnt Balance               -1S05.0  -1103.0  -4513.0  1889.0   332.0         62.0  -40.4  -311.7  -111.          19.1  t040.2   1689.0   2672.0
C.   Long-Term Capitol tnftlo              -16S.?  -1S9.8   -119.0  t1118O   2017.7   1S24.6  2336.4   1720.7   162s.7  1366.8   1516.3    747.5             34.6
1. Direct 1ns   t Inet debt/equity sws    16.0       21.0      69.0    213.0    410.0    470.0    500.0    530.0    S25.0    S60.0    600.0    650.0        700.0
2. Officlat Capital Grants                  34.0    -22.0    -31.0    -29.0    -34.0    -40.0    -47.0    -53.0    SS.O    *s7.0    -60.0        63.0    -66.0
3. let Lt Lons                           -141s.7  -1458.8   -177.0    S72.6   1401.7    914.6   1733.4   1123.7   1003.?   62.8    976.3   160.5            286.4
. Disbur_emnta                          478.5    S18.2  1780.0   2194.0   3413.3   2258.9  3069.9  3018.1   2833.6  3081.0  3253.5  3427.              3565.1
b. Reps ents    1/                     1894.2   1977.0   19.0   1621.4   2081.6   134.3   1336.s   1894.4   1749.9   2255.s   227.3   3266.6    3851.5
4. Other LT Inflows (let)  2/                0.0      0.0       0.0    361.4    240.0    180.0    1so.0    120.0    75.0        40.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
N.  Total other Itt n (not)                .1014.3  1439.8   -1S1.0  -1820.0  -3072.1  -44.6   -460.0        56.1  -s55.1   -311.3   -613.3   478.4    -S9t.4
1. let Short-Term Capital                 169S.0  2277.3    938.0  -3647.0    405.6    71.4         90.3     1S.9    14.2       -4.6     63.3    -28.4    -47.4
2. Capital Flaws 3.E.I.   3/              -775.0   -866.0  -1083.0  -1090.0  *4227.7  -1016.0  -1050.3  .1022.0  1064.3   406.6  .1050.0  -1050.0   -1050.0
3. Errors ard  6issions   4/             -1934.3     28.5      -6.0  2917.0    750.0    SOO.0   500.0   s5O.0  S0.0   SOO.0    500.0   500.0    SOO.0
1.   Changes In net res       s             35.0   1123.0   473.O  -1187.0    722.3  -1142.0  -1427.9   -902.9   -967.1  -1246.6   43.1  -1858.2   -2422.3
1. Not Credit fram the lIf                   0.0      0.0       0.0    998.0   1977.4   160S.0   677.3   .371.9   -S2.6   -6n.8   -672.8   -672.8   -672.8
2. Other reserve change                   365S.0   1123.0   47B5.0  -2185.0  -1255.1  -2747.0  -2105.2   .530.9   -394.6   -S73.8  -1270.3  -1185.4   -1749.5
t- indicates increasel
.................................................................................................. ........................................... , o....
1/  lncludes pre-payment of debt via debt/equity swps.                                                                                                     0M/24/90  n
2/  Capital gains an debt/equity swaps.                                                                                                                    04:36 PH
3/ Counterpart to private Interest receipt plus funds used for debt reduction operations.
4J  Historicat is errors & omission  as estimated by government (include net capitat flight).  Future is projected reverse capital flight. 



VEWEZUEtA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
...............................
(USS millions at current prices)
............................................................................................................................................ ................................................................................... ........
A c t u a I          PrelIm. Estiuat        P r o j    ec t i o n s
1966      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      199        1996      197        1996
of.....................................................................................................................................................
J. Shares of GDP (spot exchange rate)
1. Resource Osltcne                               0.1       0.9        4.6      10.8       S.1        3.5       2.3       2.4        2.6       3.0       3.9       4.3         4.9
2. Total Intero   t Paymnts                       5.1       5.7        5.1       8.9       6.9        5.9       5.8       S.S        5.0       4.?       4.3       3.9         3.5
3. Current Accowut Satn                          -2.5       -2.4      -7.5       4.6        0 8       0.1      -0.9      -0.6       -0.2       0.3       1.4       2.1         3.0
4. LT Capital Inflow (line 0)                    -2.2       -3.1      -0.2       2.7        LA        3.3       4.6       3.1        2.7       2.0       2.0       0.9         0.4
S. Set Credit from  the IF                       0.0        0.0       0.0       2.5        4.7       3.S       1.3      -0.7       -0.9       1.0      -0.9      -0.6        -0.6
Nemut Ite-.
UP (Ati   Method)                            6SO53.8  57317.4  S8964.7  S0374.0  49268.1    6624.0  S0436.6  SS404.7  60654.4  66959.6  C4010.7  61412.0   69442.4
UP (Spot Exchange Rate)                       60882.6  468S7.9  60138.3  4071S.6  42280.9  46239.6  S0632.3  S5653.1  61146.9  67261.4  73966.7  61099.0   69091.6
Foreign Exchang Reserves:
1. Internatiosnl Reserves                      8264.0   7S91.0   3526.4   4519.2   5184.3   7841.2   9946.4  104?7.3  107T1.9  1144S.7  127T6.0  13901.4   156SO.6
2. Gotd (End-yr at 1300/ox)                    3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0   3439.0    343.0
3. Gross Reserve  tml. Cld                    11703.0  11030.0   696S.4   7958.2   6623.3  1t260.2  13385.4  13916.3  14310.9  146t4.7  16155.0  1730.4   19039.8
4. Gr. tn. in Months iworts                      10.6        9.7       4.6       7.3        6.6       7.7       8.0        7.5       7.1       6.7       6.6        6.         6.6
Exchange  ates
I. Sm. Off. S-Rate (IFS rf)                       8.1      14.3       14.5      34.3      48.0       S3.3      S6.2      S9.2      62.3       65.5      69.       n.6         76.0
2. Real Eff. X-lbat   ase 19i 00                1000       71.6       63.6      SS.8      53.1       53.1      53.1      S3.1       S3.1      S3.1      53.1      S3.1       S53.1
3. X-Rate for CGP Conersion                       T.6       11.9      14.8      27.7      41.2       S2.7      56.4       59.4      62.6    6o.9        69.4       73.3       77.7
Inflation Rates
I. UP Deflator                                   -O.SS    32.12    20.82    74.32    38.0!    IS.S              9.9S     10.41    1O.4"    10.6"        11.23     10.96       11.12
2. Domtic Aborption Deflator                     13.22    33.1S    23.72    61.32    39.02    16.02    10.02    10.02    10.02    10.02    10.0S    10.0S                     10.0O
............................................................................................................ ...................................................................................................................  .......
0424/90
04:36 PR
00
U'
00
OQ



WENEZUELA -rojected Long-tem Firancing Requiremnts
...................................................
(Uss milttin. usat averae)
196-89            1M90.92            1993-95
aross Sisbirsosants                         .......           .......            .......
...................
toig-Tom dStress
mdltl.taarl                                130.4            1225.5              632.0
of d1icb lr                              23.8              S15.0              444.6
llteral                                    91.6              394.3              201.2
SiWisrs Credits                            M3.7               44.0             1319.3
fineawilt farkets to PIhte Sector        423.9              233.3              100.0
Private Cun-wrt ared Lt                    31.0              240.0              525.0
ISf p2 0Se                                249.S             1461.5                0.0
Finrialt Sap                                0.0                0.0                0.0
MoTAL                           1W.2              4400.6             2977.6
lwt OON   amts
.................
haltilateral                               109.5            1205.9              699.2
of  id,fb lrn                            15.2       O      S...               3n.0
Sitaterlt                                 -39.9              247.9               96.2
S*plters Credits                          201.4              453.0              442.6
Fiancmiat Hrkets to  "tic Sector         -348.9             -106.9              -U.4
Private UonuAranteed LT                   -516.3             153.7              361.3
If Purcha.                                249.5             1419.9             -539.1
et Short-Trm Oebt                         207.6              36?.6              267.9
rfinnclal Gap                               0.0                0.0                0.0
TOTAL                           -136.8            3759.2             1239.9
...............................................................................................
04/24/90
04:36 N
o0
oh
tnb



VENEZJELA - Debt Service Assuqtions
(USS miIlIonsh  aewl    average)
................................................ .................................................................................. ................................
196689             1990-92           1993-9
Primcipel Reprmnts                                    .......            .......            .......
....................
ntitertaL                                             20.9               19.5              132.8
ot hmtch IED                                        13.6               0.0               71.6
of latert                                            131.7              148.4              105.0
SsWliem  Credits                                    234.3               391.0             876.7
ftrfial Markets to Publc Sector                    M.7                 342.2             188.4
Private Men-Guarnted LT                              549.3               66.3              163.?
Im repu hae                                           0.0               41.6              539.1
f$nwcitl Gap                                          0.0                 0.0               0.0
TOTL                                      113.8              1029.1             2005.6
inteet Pa_its
.................
maltIleteral                                          18.               146.8             36.8
of imAch  l68                                        1.2               85.4             232.0
ot lateral                                           67.6                91.5              123.3
Suppiers Credits                                     6S.S               180.1             300.4
FinweiIt aMrkets to Public Sector                  2180.6              1432.7            1123.8
Private    -Guarasteed LT                            469.3              497.0             533.8
off  Sere  Cares                                     10.8             2i.,                353.7
woort-etr  Debt                                     305.9              222.2              287.0
ftnmctel Gep                                          0.0                0.0                0.0
TOTAL                                     3118.0             2866.8             308.6
Key Ratios                                     1988      1989     1990    199       1992      199      1994    l19
,.... ......                                    ..       ..        ..       ..        ..       ..        ..       ..
total Internt/SS                            24.2X    24.23    18.23    1S.5       14.93    13.93    12.7      11.83
ND/SOS                                     282.43   220.43   18.83   t86."3   181.S   167.13   1515.03   142.13
net Dis as nts/Totael Intest  It            S.3    10.73   134.         109-.23   102.6X    41.7     33-.3    20.63
et  tr,f.rstIP   17                         -2.5X    -7.93      2.43     0.53      0.T1    -3.28    *3.43    .3*73
onw V'  used for Debt C_werslofnP   0.U3            o.03      7."      0.03      0.13     00        0.1      0.33                                              la
................................................................... ..........................                                              -----------*00----------*--*-w---* e 
1/ ienh_  IWS. FAMSI    Short-tf  CWaital  Rears  Capital Ft tl ht ad Pro-Pageat            r               04/24/90                                               > 
ds*Et-   ty Se . :s .



- 48 -                   ANNE  I
Page 1 of 3 pages
VNEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPlEHiTtAR LOAN DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Mey Events
(a)   Time taken by the country to prepare credit  : 14 months
(b)   Credit prepared by                            : Central Bank
(c)   First presentation to the Bank                : June 1989
(d)   Departure of appraisal mission                : March 1990
(e)   Completion of negotiations                    : May 1990
(f)   Planned date for effectiveness                : June 1990
Section II: Special Bank ImDlementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.          The proposed loan will be released in three tranches (excluding the
technical assistance component). The release of the first tranche will be subject
to the following conditions:
(a)   The Bank must be satisfied that the macroeconomic policy framework
is adequate to sustain the financial sector adjustment program.
(b)   Studies of the financial condition of commercial banks and selected
mortgage banks and finance companies will have been commissioned.
(c)   SBIF will have issued all the changes required to tighten regulations
on: provisioning, loan classification, roll-over of credits and
accrual of interest, charge-offs, evaluation of investment
portfolios, and evaluation of property received as collateral.
(d)   SBIF will have issued instructions to banks to: (i) establish a
general loan-loss provision of at least 1.5% of loans by December
1990 and 2% of loans by June 1991 (with specific provisions counted
against the general provision); (ii) write off loans past due by more
than 36 months by June 1991; and (iii) require their auditors to
include an assessment of loan classification and concentration in
audits.
(e)   Government will have issued a resolutio. forbidding BIV and BANDAGRO
from engaging in lending operations by requiring that any new
deposits and all loan recoveries be invested in securities of the
Treasury or the BCV.   BIV's operations will resume once its
restructuring is substantially under way.



- 49 -                AN         1
Page 2 of 3 peess
2.          The release of the second tranche will depend on compliance with
the following:
(a)   Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework including adequate
management of international reserves, satisfactory to the Bank and
consistent with the program.
(b)   Satisfactory progress will have been made in implementing the agreed
reform program as stated in the Letter of Sectoral Policy.
(c)   Submissiorn to Congress of a proposed new Law of Superintendency of
Banks in accordance with suggestions in Annex VI.
(d)   3ubmission to Congress of revisions to the Law of the Central Bank.
The proposed Law must:   (i) allow full market determination of
interest rates; (ii) grant the BCV full and exclusive prerogative
to set interest rates on all transactions of intermediaries;
(iii) allow the BCV to purchase negotiable T-bills subject to the
Government's  credit  ceiling;   (iv)  include  foreign-currency
denominated debt in the Government's credit ceiling; and (v) restrict
all rediscount contracts given by the BCV to no more than 30 days.
(e)   Submission to Congress of revisions to FOGADE's Law. Modifications
should be in accordance with suggestions in Annexes VII and VIII.
(f)   Submission to Congress of revisions to Public Credit Law to permit
issuance of fixed-term, negotiable, interest-bearing, short-term
T-bills.
(g)   Submission to Congress of proposed laws creating two second-tier
credit institutions (for agriculture and industry, respectively)
which will absorb at least 5 funds.
(h)   SBIF will have issued and implemented all the changes required to
regulate the valuation of exchange risk, loan concentration limits
controls of intra-group transactions, consolidation of accounts of
financial groups, and uniform publication criteria of financial
statements.
(i)   The three banks owned by BCV will have been brought to the point of
sale. All valuation and tender or bidding documents for the sale of
the banks will have been completed to the satisfaction of the Bank,
and bidding documents will have been issued to prospective
purchasers.
(j)   SBIF will have completed all studies of financial condition of all
private commercial banks and of selected mortgage banks and finance
companies.
(k)   Submission of program acceptable to the Bank to disengage all managed
portfolios from the BCV (except FICAM). The program should contain
the information listed in Annex IX.



- 50 -              MM  I;
Page 3 of 3 pages
(1)   Submission  of  action  plan  acceptable  to  the  Bank  for  the
restructuring of BIV and its four regional banks, inlcuding a
specification of their new role.
3.         The release of the third tranche will depend on compliance with the
following:
(a) Maintenance of a macroeconomic policy framework including adequate
management of international reserves, satisfactory to the Bank and
consistent with the program.
(b)   Satisfactory progress will have been made in implementing the agreed
reform program as stated in the Letter of Sectoral Policy.
(c)  Submission to Congress of modification of the Bank Law which will
include all aspects of the reform program agreed in the Letter of
Sectoral Policy and loan documents.
(d)  Government will have issued decree reducing the agricultural lending
requirement on commercial banks to 12% of their total portfolio.
(e)  Presentation to the Bank of satisfactory program for the full
recapitalization of FOGADE.
(f)  Monthly capital contributions to FOGADE will have been made by the
Treasury beginning in January 1991, which together will cover at
least 50% of the estimated losses of FOGADE.
(g) The three banks owned by BCV will have been divested from the public
sector.
(h)  Satisfactory  progress  in  carrying  out  the  action  plan  for
restructuring CORPOINDUSTRIA and ICAP.
(h)  FO&ADE's investment portfolio will have been disengaged from the
Central Bank.



- 51 -                 ANNEX III
Page 1 of 12 pages
VENEZIELA - FIANCIL SECTOR ADJSTM           LOAN
DRAFT 6OVERNMENT'S LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY
May 16, 1990
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Conablet
1.          The Government of Venezuela hereby requests a World Bank loan to
support a financial sector reform program. The objectives of the reforms are:
(i) to reduce intermediation costs; (ii) to mobilize greater financial
savings, (iii) to allocate resources more efficiently, and (iv) to enhance the
stability and  solvency of the  financial  sector.    These  reforms are of
fundamental importance to allow the financial system to carry out the role
assigned to it under our country's macroeconomic program and increase its
capacity for financing economic development.   The reforms will focus on
strengthening both the legal and institutional framework of regulatory
agencies, improving the financial condition and promoting the competitiveness
of intermediaries. and rationalizing the Government's role in the financial
sector.
2.          The financial assistance hereby requested will release counterpart
funds which will help finance the costs associated with the reform program.
Among others, these costs includes   required capital contributions to the
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FOGADE), expenses relating to rehabilitation or
liquidation of some state-owned financial institutions and the subrogation of
their foreign debt, and increases in the internal public debt service due to
the new policy of issuing debt at market-determined interest rates.
3.          Before setting out in detail the sector's problems and the scope
of the reform program, it is useful to provide a summary of the macroeconomic
reform program--of which financial sector reform will be a part--that is now
being carried out by the Government.
The Macroeconomic Reform ProSram
4.    The short-term objective of the reform program has been to stabilize the
economy and, in particular, the balance of payments and fiscal accounts. The
cornerstone of the stabilization program was establishment of a unified,
market-determined exchange rate.   This measure alone dampened pressure on
international reserves, by restraining import demand and reduced quasi-fiscal



- 52 -                    mX III
Page 2 of 12 pages
losses of the Central Bank on account of foreign exchange guarantees.  The
fiscal situation was also improved by the rise in public enterprise tariffs
and petroleum products, by tax administration measures, and by spending
restraint.
5.    While the stabilization effort must not weaken in the medium term, there
are clear indications that it is succeeding. The nonfinancial public sector
(which includes the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal accounts) registered a deficit
equal to less than 2S of gross domestic product in 1989, down from about 92
the previous year. The deficit is attributable to losses on foreign currency
guarantees granted under the previous import and exchange regime. The current
account of the balance of payments registered a US$2,500 million surplus in
1989, although the overall balance of payments (as measured by changes in the
Central Bank's net reserves) was in deficit because of lower than anticipated
medium-term comercial bank financing. The exchange rate itself had displayed
a notable stability during the first seven months of the program, remaining
within a Bs 36.6-38.5/US$l.O0 range. However, it has since depreciated to the
range of Bs 43-46/US$l.OO. Monthly inflatiov has been kept at just over 22
per month, following an inflationary surge in the first two months of the
program. A resurgence of inflation in September and October 1989 was arrested
with effective monetary measures.
6.    Beyond stabilization,  the  longer-term objectives  of the  adjustment
program are:  (i) to promote private activity by enhancing the role of markets
in resource allocation; (II) to modernize and restructure the public adminis-
tration system, so as to reduce unnecessary regulations and interference in
private activity;  (iii) to establish and maintain a trade regime that is
neutral in creating incentives among productive activities; (iv) to reduce the
reliance on petroleum by promoting non-oil exports and alternative sources of
Government funding; and (v) to increase domestic savings in order to limit
foreign borrowing requirements.   If these reforms are successful,  it is
expected that the result would be a sustainable rate of growth, with a greater
degree of resistance to external shocks.
7.    The measures taken thus far reflect considerable progress in most, if
not all, of these areas. The rise in public enterprise prices and tariffs, in
addition to contributing to improving the fiscal position, is a useful first
step in public enterprise reform, as it allows evaluation of economic costs
through the price mechanism.  At the same time, ongoing trade reforms and
elimination of price controls and subsidies on many products are allowing
private sector prices to reflect true economic costs, and have ended the
shortages experienced prior to the new economic policy.   In the financial
area, the liberalization of interest rates in February 1989 was designed to
improve the financial condition of Intermediaries and to promote additional
resource mobilization. While interest rate ceilings were reinstituted because
of a Supreme Court ruling, the increase in interest rate ceilings over time
has decreased the distortions in the financial system.  Finally, the public
investment program and social welfare expenditures are being reviewed to
target beneficiaries more precisely, within the constraints imposed by the new
fiscal responsibility.
8.    Although growth prospects remain good in the medium ternm, the short-term
costs of adjustment are proving to be quite severe. Non-oil GDP dropped by
about 9.12 in 1989.  Given this result, the adjustment process needs to be



53                   ANNEX II2
Page 3 of 12 pages
implemented in a way that is least disruptive and puts special emphasis on
social sectors. In order to achieve this objective the Government has designed
and presented to Congress an investment plan aimed at promoting economic
growth and specially targeting social needs.
9.    The Government will maintain a macroeconomic policy framework consistent
with the objectives of its adjustment program.  This framework will involve
continuation of a unified, market-determined exchange rate and a financial
regime in which interest rates are freely set in the marketplace. The fiscal
position, together with the rate of growth of monetary aggregates, will be
consistent with the restoration of real GDP growth and declining inflation
rates. It is expected that the Government will maintain its policy of further
improving the fiscal balance of the consolidated nonfinancial public sector.
Also, given the impact of oil price movements on Venezuela's external balance,
management of international reserves is crucial to macroeconomic stability,
and, therefore, in the event of increasing oil prices, increases in the
international reserves of the Central Bank are expected.
Main Comoonents of the Proposed Refoms of the Financial System
10.         There is a consensus within the Government that the financial
system has to improve in order to perform its functions more efficiently. The
Government has designed a comprehensive program aimed at confronting the
following issues:  (i) an inadequate framework of regulatory and supervisory
institutions (including overlapping functions and imprecise responsibilities
among  different   regulatory  entities,   weak   supervision  of  financial
institutions, and inadequate mechanisms for liquidating or rehabilitating
banks); (ii) excessive Government controls over interest rates and credit
allocation, which distorts the incentives of intermediariest (iii) solvency
problems in a number of financial institutions (including some private
commercial banks, public banks, state-run development funds, mortgage banks,
and savings and loans [S&Ls]); (iv) the need to define and rationalize the
Government's role as a financial intermediary; and (v) the need to provide
greater clarity in the BCV's financial transactions with the Government and
with financial institutions.
I.    Reform of the Institutional and Regulatory Framework
11.         The Government recognizes that the institutional framework within
which the financial system operates suffer.' from major deficiencies that must
be corrected.    The main deficiencies  aret   (i) co-existence of various
regulators (Superintendencies, BCV, Ministry of Finance [kMH, FOGADE, and the
National Savings and Loans Bank [BANAP)) with overlapping functions; (ii)
imprecise separation of roles, approval procedures and coimmunication channels
between these regulatory agencies; (iii) insufficient powers and independence
of the Superintendencies; and (iv) concentration of powers in the ME that
should be exercised by the Superintendency of Banks (SBIF).
12.         A key element of the reforms will be the bolstering of the
regulatory process, aimed at reducing the overlap of functions and ensuring
functional, administrative, and financial independence of the SBIF. The SBIF
will be responsible for the analysis and control of financial entities under
its supervision.   FOGADE will guarantee the public's deposits up to an
established limit, provide financial support to rehabilitate entities with



- 54 -                 ANNEX III
Page 4 of 12 pages
solvency problems, and, if necessary, liquidate entities.  MH and BCV, each
acting within their own jurisdiction, will be the lead agencies responsible
for issuing general policies that the SBIF axd FOGADE must follow, yet will
not have powers over these agencies' operations other than those specified by
law. Finally, BCV will seek to maintain the stability of the exchange rate,
money and credit, and will limit its transactions with banking institutions to
managing short-term liquidity at market rates of interest.
13.         The Government will submit for congressional enactment amendments
to the FOGADE Law, the BCV Law, and the Bank Law.   The first two will be
submitted to Congress by the end of 1990. The Bank Law will be submitted to
the Congress by mid-1991. In addition, a proposed new law for SBIF will be
submitted to Congress by the end of 1990. In the preamble to these proposed
laws, the Executive will stress the importance of the reforms and the need to
speed their passage through Congress.
14.         Prudential Regulation and Supervision and the SBIF.  The proposed
SBIF Law will grant autonomy to the SBIF by transforming it into an
independent agency. Ample decision-making authority will be granted to the
SBIF, and any requirements for approval by the MH on the SBIF's actions will
be  eliminated.    The  following  actions  will  require  approval  from  a
Consultative Committee composed of the Minister of Finance, the President of
the BCV, the President of FOGADE and the Superintendents (i) the intervention,
dissolution or liquidation of financial institutions, (ii) the revocation or
suspension of bank licenses, (Wi) the fixing of the minimum capital
requirement.   The SBIP will be financed through direct annual contributions
from the entities supervised as a fixed percentage of their assets, but can
also receive extraordinary contributions from the Treasury. The SBIF's annual
budget will require approval by the Board of Directors of the BCV.   The
proposed Law will reinfcrce the powers of the SBIF to identify and address
financially distressed institutions and will specify its scope for penalties
and sanctions. It will also broaden the SBIF's powers to authorize, control,
intervene, and proceed with the liquidation of financial institutions.  The
proposed Law and its implementing regulations will strengthen the SBIF's
responsibility  for  setting  capital  requirements,   standards  for  loan
concentration and lending to insiders or related parties, preventive
capitalization procedures for distressed institutions, and the conditions that
prompt action by FOGADE.   Finally,  the proposed Law will also eliminate
unnecessary provisions contained in the current Bank Law and will authorize
the SBIF to raise minimum capital requirements until the Bank Law can be
amended to that effect.   The BDank Law and the BCV Law will be amended to
include provisions supporting the new spirit of regulatory institutions.
15.         The  SBIF's  enhanced  autonomy  and  regulatory  powers will  be
complemented by upgrading its functional organization and operating
procedures.   Together, these measures will result in the strengthening of
prudential regulations and the SBIP's supervisory capability.
16.         By June 1990, the SBIF will issue a series of resolutions to
strengthen rules in the following areas:  loan portfolio classification and
provisioning, loan rollovers and interest accrual, asset write-offs, measures
of investment quality, and criteria for the valuation of property received as
collateral.   By June 1990, the SBIF will instruct credit institutions to
contract their auditors to review and render an opinion on the classification



55                   ANNEX III
Page S of 12 pages
of their portfolio and concentration of loans as part of their regular audits.
By December 1990, the SBIF will also issue resolutions establishings criteria
for valuation of foreign exchange risk, limits on lending concentration,
controls on intra-group transactions, uniform criteria for publication of
balance sheets with notes to clearly and accurately reflect the financial
position of the institution, and a methodology for consolidation of the
accounts of financial groups and the accounts of overseas branches.  Before
July 1991, the SBIF will issue a new Chart of Accounts for financial entities
in order to facilitate the analysis of the true financial condition of
intermediaries and will issue audit guidelines in accordance with this new
Chart of Accounts. By the same date the SBIF will also initiate monthly
publication of a bulletin disclosing the status of certain indicators on the
financial condition of financial institutions.   By that time, the SBIF will
have consolidated a number of organizational changes, including:  (i) hiring
and training of suitable staff, (ii) computerization of its operating systems,
(iii)  establishment  of  improved  inspection  procedures,   (iv)  internal
reorganization to enhance its early-warning capability to detect potential
banking problems, and (v) improved management of a credit information system
(SICRI).
17.         Mechanisms for Handling Bank Crises and FOGADE.   The financial
sector reform will strengthen FOGADE's capacity to handle bank crises by
reinforcing its legal, institutional and financial position.   FOGADE's Law
will be amended to redefine its procedures for granting financial support in
cases of bank insolvency, empower it to carry out liquidations, and enhance
its financial position. FOGADE will intervene only by referral of a bank by
the SBIF, and will grant assistance to banks only after removal of the bank's
Board of Directors.   Concessional assistance to financial institutions by
FOGADE will take the form of capital contributions, while all credits and
asset purchases will be performed at market value.   It will administer or
financially support institutions only after a majority of shares have been
voluntarily sold or pledged to it. To finance FOGADE, the Treasury will make
regular  contributions  matching  the  amount  contributed  by  financial
institutions.    BCV management  of  FOGADE  investments  in  trust will  be
eliminated, allowing FOGADE to manage its own funds directly.   FOGADE will
prepare its balance sheet and will account for its losses in accordance with
standards established by the SBIF. By December 1990, FOGADE will contract a
special study by external auditors to appraise the value of assets received
from the BCV and in the course of financial support operations.   This
valuation will be performed on the basis of market costs and SBIF standards.
On the basis of this study, the Government agrees to prepare a program by mid-
1991 for equity contributions by the Treasury to cover all losses. A partial
recapitalization of FOGADE will be included in the proposed Budgetary Law for
1991 to cover during the first semester of 1991 at least 50Z of the losses
estimated by the study mentioned above. After Budget approval, contributions
will start in January 1991. By July 1991, FOGADE will review its internal
regulations to make them consistent with this new approach and the law in
effect at that time.
18.         FOGADE will carry out operations to rehabilitate insolvent banks
in those cases where rehabilitation is less costly than liquidation, and when
necessary to prevent widespread destabilization of the banking system.   To
enhance market discipline, the Government will carry out during the second



- 56 -                 ANNEX III
Page 6 of 12 pages
semester of 1990 a publicity campaign indicating that in the event of
liquidation, FOGADE will only cover deposits up to the amount determinet by
law.
19.         CaDital Markets.  The Government has decided that before December
1990 it will undertake a comprehensive evaluation of capital markets.   in
particular, it will aim to study options for the espansion of market
activities, and the promotion of efficiency and technical capacity.
II.   Rationalization and Liberalization of Interest Rates
and Credit Allocation
20.         The Government's policy is to allow interest rates to be freely
determined in the marketplace. In cases where this is not possible, only the
BCV as monetary authority will have the prerogative to set interest rates.
The BCV's exclusive authority in setting interest rates will ensure greater
consistency with the monetary goals set by the BCV itself. For this purpose.
amendments to the BCV Law will be proposed to Congress by the end of 1990 to:
(i) transfer to the BCV exclusive power to set interest rates over all
financial intermediaries including government-owned development funds; and
(ii) allow it not to exercise this power, thereby permitting full market
determination of interest rates.
21.          Within the current legal framework, deposit and lending interest
rates are subject to minimum and maximum limits respectively.   These rates
will be periodically revised in order to ensure sufficient scope for market
determination.   No interest rate regulations other than these limits will
apply to commercial and mortgage banks, finance companies and S&Ls. The only
bank credits that would not be subject to this policy are preferential
industrial and agricultural credits (see below) and housing credits financed
under the Ley de Politica Habitacional.
22.         In order to enhance market discipline in the determination of
interest rates, it is important that the public be informed of the interest
rate regime offered by banks. With easy and transparent access to this type
of information, the users of banking services can better exert the market
discipline on which this reform program is based. For this purpose, the BCV
will publish average interest rate indicators on a daily basis starting in
June 1990, and will issue a directive to banks by December 1990 requiring them
to announce and post their rates on all deposit and credit services,
specifying the methodology for their calculation. Before June 1991, the BCV
will publish in its monthly bulletin a table comparing interest rates offered
by the various financial institutions, using a uniform methodology for
presentation purposes.
23.         Preferential Credits.  The Government's medium-term policy is that
all interest rates be set by the market.   As a first step towards the
elimination of interest rate subsidies, the Government has decided to increase
preferential interest rates on all direct loans from government financial
intermediaries, including development funds, and to increase the interest
rates on agricultural loans granted through the commercial banking system.
All preferential rates will be based on a market reference rate given by the
average lending rate of the six largest banks on non-preferential credits.
Beginning in June 1990, lending to agricultural activities by commercial banks



57                   ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
will occur at a rate not greater than 85Z of the market reference rate,
lending to agricultural activities by DFIs will occur at a rate not less than
85S of the market reference rate, and lending to other activities by DFIs will
occur at a rate not less than 902 of the market reference rate.   The
availability of funds for non-agricultural credits at preferential rates will
take into account the fiscal restrictions and the need to fimprove the
efficiency of credit allocation.
24.         For second-tier credits, the Government's financial intermediaries
(including BANAP) will lend to the first-tier intermediaries at a rate not
lower than the average cost of interest-bearing deposits in the banking
system.  First-tier institutions will absorb the entire credit risk of the
final borrowers.
25.         Credit Reauirements.  The maintenance of the agricultural credit
portfolio requirement is warranted by the need to adjust this sector
gradually, but firmly, to the new market conditions prevailing in the
financial sector.   This measure is temporary in nature, and the Government
expects to eliminate it under the current financial sector reform program.
Beginning in June 1990, the minimum portfolio requirement on commercial banks
will be reduced to 17.5S. The requirement will be further reduced to 122 by
June 1991.
III. Strengthening the Financial Condition of and Increasina
Competition between Private Financial Institutions
26.         The Government believes that there are solvency problems in some
financial institutions, including both public and private entities (commercial
and mortgage banks,  finance companies,  and S&Ls).   Also,  the Government
believes that competition in the financial sector must be enhanced to reduce
intermediation margins and encourage greater banking efficiency. Vith these
objectives in mind, the SBIF will issue a resolution before June 1990
requiring all commercial and mortgage banks and finance companies to institute
a general loan-loss provision for bad debts of not less than 21 of their total
loan portfolio, and further requiring them to write off any loans that have
been overdue for more than three years. These write-offs, which will be in
addition to the minimum 21 provision, will start in July 1990 and will be
completed by June 1991. Accordingly, the December 1990 financial statements
of financial institutions will include provisions of at least 1.51 of their
respective loan portfolios, and the June 1991 financial statements will at
least complete the 21 provision requirement. The SBIF will undertake studies
of all commercial banks and some other financial institutions, focusing on
their solvency, loan portfolio quality, concentration of risks, and foreign
currency exposure and exchange losses.   These studies will be completed by
end-1990. If as a result of these studies the SBIF determines that some
institutions need to increase their provisions or write-offs, it will require
them to adjust them in accordance with plans to be agreed upon. Also by
December 1990, the SBIF will prepare an analysis of foreign exchange losses of
public and private financial entities and a program for their amortization.
The Government will not authorize the creation of new banks or finance
companies until the SBIF has been strengthened, which is expected to take
place by mid-1991.



- 58 -                 ANNEX III
Page 8 of 12 pages
27.         By mid-1991, the Government will submit to Congress amendments to
the Bank Law to promote greater competition in the financial sector.   The
changes will lncludet  allowing the creation of universal banking, unifying
and tightening capital requirements of commercial and mortgage banks and
finance companies, and gradually liberalizing the entry of foreign banks. The
legislated capital requirement will be asset-based, will permit risk-weighting
in the future (including some contingencies), and the minimum equityltotal
asset ratio will not be less than 5X. Recognizing that an enhanced presence
of foreign banks can produce a significant increase in the efficiency of the
domestic financial system and could facilitate the Government's task in
seeking recovery of selected financial institutions, the following changes
will be introducedt (i) foreign banks will be permitted to acquire up to 202
of the capital of local commercial banks; the Executive could further increase
this percentage up to 302; (ii) legal power will be granted to the Executive
to authorize foreigners to acquire a larger participation up to full ownership
of, or to establish new, financial intermediaries other than commercial banks
subject  to  operational  criteria  established  by  the  Executive.  The
establishment of the criteria is not intended to discourage foreign investment
in these institutions.
IV.   Rationalization and Reduction of the Government's Role
in Financial Intermediation
28.         The Government recognizes that its financial intermediation role
(acting through state-owned banks and development funds) has brought about
significant losses to the Treasury and has contributed to the segmentation and
inefficiency of financial markets.   The rationalization of the Government's
development finance agencies will seek to increase efficiency, target benefits
more precisely, and curtail fiscal or quasi-fiscal losses to the State.
29.         The Government is profoundly concerned about the inefficiencies
noted in state-owned banks, development finance institutions and development
funds,  including  among  others:    the  Venezuelan  Industrial  Bank  (BIV),
Industrial Credit Fund (FONCRZ8), Corporation for the Development of Small and
Medium   Industry   (CORPOINDUSTRIA),   the  Agricultural  Development  Bank
(BANDAGRO), the Agricultural Credit Fund (FCA), the Farming and Livestock
Credit Institute (ICAP), the Coffee Fund (FONCAFE), the Fruit Development Fund
(FDF). All of these organizations, to a greater or lesser extent, suffer from
the following problems:  (i) high rates of arrears in their loan portfolios,
(ii) inefficient resource allocation, ($ii) little capacity to mobilize
private  independent  resources  to  finance  their  operations,   (iv) loan
portfolios yielding below market rates, and (v) a precarious or sometimes
insolvent financial position.
30.         The Government has decided to rationalize its participation in
commercial banking and in development finance in order to increase the role of
market forces and to reduce its losses. For this purpose, it has decided to
take a number of measures including the merger of selected funds, and the
privatization, restructuring or liquidation of public banks.
31.         Those funds that grant financing to productive sectors will be
merged Into two large second-tier fundss  an industrial credit fund and an
agricultural credit fund.   The industrial credit fund will absorb, among
others, FONCREI, the Industry and Technology Development Fund (FINTEC), and



59 -                 ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
the second-tier financial intermediation functions of the Venezuelan
Investment Fund (FIV). The agricultural fund will absorb, among others. the
FCA, and the intermediation operations of FONCAFE and FDF. Their respective
organic laws, which will be submitted to the Congress by December 1990, will
provide for the transfer of operations of the existing funds to the new
institution and will stipulate the expiration of their activities. Action
plans for the creation of these two new second-tier funds will be prepared
before  December  1990.   Because  of  their  social  welfare   functions,
CORPOINDUSTRIA and ICAP will remain as independent funds, and will only
perform those first-tier lending activities arising from programs authorized
by the Executive. The Government has also decided to prepare action plans for
the restructuring of ICAP and CORPOINDUSTRIA. These plans will be ready by
December 1990 and we expect that by mid-1991 there will be substantial
progress in their implementation. All existing and newly created funds will
be organizationally located under the MH, and supervised by the SBIF.
32.         The Government is also aware of the need for actions to strengthen
BIV, the largest state-owned commercial bank. To resolve this situation, the
Government wills  (i) require that any new deposits and portfolio recoveries
be invested in securities of the Treasury or the BCV after June 1990; (il)
coumission an independent analysis of BIV's financial condition and solvency;
(iii) prepare before December 1990 a detailed restructuring plan including an
implementation  schedule.    The plan will  contain programs  for financial
recovery, staffing rationalization, and administrative reorganization of the
BIV and of its four regional banks, and the schedule for the resumption of
BIV's lending activities.
33.         The Government has also decided to resolve the crisis at BANDAGRO,
which has been under intervention for the last nine years.  The Government
will prepare a law to be presented to Congress by December 1990 proposing the
liquidation of BANDAGRO in conjunction with the creation of the new
agricultural credit fund.   This law will specify what objectives formerly
pursued by BANDAGRO will be pursued by the new fund.   By June 1990, the
Government will adopt interim measures to limit the bank's operations and to
forbid any new ones.  Accordingly, any new deposits or portfolio recoveries
will be invested in securities of the Treasury or the BCV.
34.         BANAP, which acts as the second-tier bank of the S&Ls, is also
beset with serious financial difficulties.   The Government will prepare a
financial restructuring program for BANAP which will eliminate future needs
for financing by the BCV or the Governmet.  This restructuring program,
including a new, more restrictive credit policy to S&Ls, will be prepared by
December 1990.
35.         The Government's subrogation of foreign debt obligations will be a
significant element of the restructuring, recovery or liquidation programs, as
the case may be, of the public financial institutions mentioned above.
36.         The Government has initiated the process of reprivatization of the
three banks owned by the BCV (Banco del Occidente, Banco Reodblica, and Banco
Italo-Venezolano) through the Investment Fund of Venezuela (FIV). All three
banks will be offered for public sale before the end of 1990, and the public
sector's participation in these banks will have been divested by mid-1991.



- 60 -                 ANNEX III
Page 10 of 12 pages
V.    Increasin& the Clarity of the BCV's Credit ORerations
37.         The BCV vill seek greater clarity in its credit operations with
both the Treasury and the financial system. The basic criterion w$il be that
all subsidy programs be made explicit in the Government's budget- and not be
concealed in BCV's operations. This will facilitate better prioritization of
public spending and will endow the BCV with greater flexibility in managing
monetary policy by eliminating its quasi-fiscal losses.   To this end, the
Government will propose to Congress amendments to the Bank Law, the Law of the
Central Bank, and the Law of Public Credit.
38.         Considerable progress has been made toward enhancing the clarity
of the BCV's operations. For example, unification of the exchange rate and
the elimination of exchange rate guarantee programs have eliminated sources of
income and expenditures that were not reflected in the budget and that
resulted in quasi-fiscal losses for the BCV.   The increase In the BCV's
discount rate from 8 percent in January 1989 to the current 33 percent, as
well as the new restrictive rediscounting policy, also resulted in the
reduction in the implicit subsidy to the financial system.   Finally, the
issuance of bonds by the BCV at market rates will allow monetary policy to be
conducted in an efficient, clear, and non-discriminatory manner.
39.         The credit relationship the BCV will maintain with the Government
will not be different from the relationship the BCV maintains with other
economic actors with regard to rates and procedures.   Accordingly, the BCV
will no longer buy Treasury bills unless the bills are negotiable and pay
market rates of interest. Further, the Treasury's debt instruments will be
made more flexible by establishing in the Public Credit Law the power to issue
fixed term Treasury bills that are not required to be redeemed within the
fiscal year in which they are issued. The value of the Treasury bills will be
determined in the marketplace and they will not be placed through preferential
purchasing arrangements.   The necessary amendments to the Public Credit Law
will be submitted to Congress before December 1990. A reform of the BCV law
will also be presented to Congress to allow the BCV to acquire on its own
initiative Treasury bills, subject to BCV's monetary program and to the
overall Treasury debt limit. This limit will be made applicable to any debt or
rights to debt in either domestic or foreign currency, and will not be raised
from the level contained in the current law.   On a transitory basis, debt
related to the ongoing external public debt reduction and restructuring
program will not be counted within this limit. BCV purchase of Treasury bills
will take place after an auction, on a residual basis, and at the average
clearing price at such au:tion. Finally, an amendment to the Bank Law will be
proposed to eliminate the use of Treasury bills as instruments satisfying the
reserve requirement. The reserve requirement will be maintained only with BCV
liabilities. These reforms will allow Treasury bills to be used in the future
by the BCV as an alternative to BCV bills in open-market operations.
40.         In  the  future,  the  discount window will be  made  available
exclusively as a last-resort source of liquidity for financial entities
(including BANAP). However, rediscounting will be kept as a tool for monetary
expansion while the BCV's capacity for indirect monetary regulation is being



- 61 -                ANNEII
Page 11 of 12 pages
developed.  In any event, the BCV's credit relationship with the financLal
system will be revised to prevent subsidization and to ensure that the BCV's
financial support is used strictly to accommodate liquidity needs of solvent
institutions.
41.         Procedures  will  be  established  for  information  sharing  and
coordination between BCV and SBIF that enable SBIF to ldentify the best
program for support in the case of insolvent banks that are not eligible for
BCV liquidity credits.  With regard to the elimination of mplicLt  ubsidies.
the Government will set the discount rate based on the yield of BCV bonds,
which reflects market conditions. Given the new orientation of rediscounting
as an instrument for banking liquidity and monetary policy rather than as a
sectoral development instrument, all rediscounts, excluding the rediscounts
for agricultural credits at preferential rates, will be granted at a rate not
lower than the yield of BCV bonds. Credits offered to BANAP and FOGADE will
also be made at this market based rate. Rediscounts of agricultural credits at
preferential rates will be granted at a rate not lower than 85X of the
discount rate on other rediscounts. This special rate for agricultural
rediscounts will only subsist as long as there is preferential credit for
agriculture. Furthermore, all rediscount contracts will be issued for a term
not exceeding 30 days.   The collateral required by the BCV In Its credit
operations will be valued at market or equivalent prices, and credit portfolio
purchase programs will be eliminated since the same liquidity objective can be
attained through rediscounting.   Finally,  the BCV will buy or sell any
security or financial instrument only at market value. To ensure this goal,
the BCV will not purchase securities that have an effective yield that Is less
than the yield of its own bonds.
42.         Trust arrangements and other portfolios administered by the BCV
represent an administrative burden, and have frequently been used as vehicles
for financing fiscal deficits.   The Government proposes eliminating these
trust arrangements (with the exception of the Foreign Exchange Insurance Fund
[FICAMJ).    For  this  purpose, a  plan  will  be  formulated  by  end-1990
establishing the necessary legislative and executive changes, and an
implementation schedule.   As part of this program, the management contract
with the Venezuelan Petroleum Company (PDVSA) will be cancelled by December
1990, and the trust arrangement with FOGADE will be terminated before July
1991. As long as the portfolios continue to exist, transactions with the BCV
will be made only at market value, with the exception of securities that are
currently held by the administered portfolios.
43.         The Government will not channel subsldies through the BCV, either
by means of interest rate subsidies or by any other direct contribution from
the BCV.  In this spirit, all housing subsidies will be financed by direct
appropriation in the Government's budget.
;Mlementation of Financial System Reform
44.         The BCV will be the executing agent for reform of the flnuncLal
system. Due to the complezity of the reform, the BCV has agreed to create a
temporary unit which will be In charge of Implementing the refonm program and
of policy-setting.  This unit will submit monthly reports to the Executive
Branch (through the Minister of Finance) and to the BCV'o Board of Directors,
and will oversee '.he implementation of the technical assistance component.



- 62 -                 ANNE  III
Page 12 of 12 pages
The unit will be composed of high level staff or consultants who wiUi work
full-tlme  on  the  reform  program.    The  staff will  Include  economists,
administrators, and attorneys, and will be directed by a professional of
acknowledged prestige and managerial ability.
Sincerely yours,
Hinistro de Hacienda                             Iinistro de Etado
Jefe de CORDIPLAN
Presidente del Banco Central
de Venezuela



VDEWELA - FD KIAL SCTOR ADJISEN  LOAN
PMacy MATRIX                                                                Psg  1
Isues and obljctives   Actions takien to date          By beord preoentationt/               By Second trench-                   By third trench.
1. Libarlize & ration-
aline interest rates
A credit *I locution.
1.1 Allow mrket                                   a). Policy Statement Indicte.    *   Modfitcations to Ka Law
determination of                                  that, as long as settino          *ubmitted to Congree  will
cooorcieaI                                        interest rate limit. it            llow full *arket determi-
interest rates.                                   required In the BCV Law,          nation of Interest rates.
miniOum deposit (maximum
lending) rates will bo
reduced (Increased) If the
limit becomes binding.
b). BCV Board hbo issed rese-
lution setting the minimum
de_oit rate A  aximum
lndioo rate at lOX a Mt3
respectively, which are
not binding by a wide
margin.
1.2 Reduce A ration-                              *). Policy Statement Indicates
alts  preferen-                                   that the 4overnment's
tial interest                                     medium-term objective is
rote.                                             full liberitsetion of
Interest rates. Mean-
while, *ubeidixed rOtes on
direct lending by
gOvernment-owned financial
Tntermedaeies a other
prefe r ntil credit. will
be reduced. Rates will be
basd on the avereg  non-
prederential lending rate
of the six largest co_nr-
etl  banks. Proferential
Interest rate on agricul-
tural eredit  by coinr-
cial banks will be 85 of
this reference rate, while-
direct preferential cred-
It. by OIs  will not bear
interest lower tan 86t a3
So of, this referee rate
for agricultural A other
ectivities, respectively.
b)e Policy Statement indicates
that government-owned



_inDfA -   QUWEJ  5E          -A           ioR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pat 2
Zssue ad objectve    Acome take. to dat               By Btord pree.tetiel             _           md trech.            by third trenche
fiesele  ln terediarie
(ineludimn SW) *111 o-
lead to firat-tier flian-
cil lntermdiaries at no
low thas the avers" cost
of raArated depositsa of
the banking ayotm.
FPret-tier instittioo
will absorb the native
ereit rieb of tU  final
borroer..
1.3 Acriboe to  C                                                                   e      dification  to BC Lew
the prgeogtive                                                                      sublmtted to Congrea wi lI
to sot I nteret                                                                     greet flul  & esclusive pro-
rate datermina-                                                                     roptive to Kcy to Oet in-
tien meckanisnm                                                                     tereot rates of govern _t-
for  loller-                                                                        owned fianciol ;ntOrrdi-
tins of *inen- _                                                                      s4 .
clot tnterndi-
wries.
1.4 Public disclo-                                MCY bard baisso I   d Resolu-     KYC aowd e1il IISe * dir e-        MC? wlt publish In Ito
ure of intorert                              tiOen reqiring daily publi-        tiv. to flnsncial intormodi-      monthly bulletin interest
rate structure.                              cation by the BCV of the           orias requiring thm to            rates offered by a rang  of
average & rngeo  it letrest       annunce & pest tbeir rates on    financial institutions.
ratae observed in the morket      *Il deposit a credit *srvices
(rates offored to the public,    specifying tho mechani_s for
interbansa  A on KCY pepw).       their calculation.
on well as the "reiscot
rat.
1.5 Rduce reatric-                                a)e Policy Statemn t Indicates                                       *   Coverment *TII is u
timn  on bonks'                                   Covernmnt's mo dit-ters                                              decree reducing  gricul-
discretteonry                                     polley of eliminating al                                             tural lwnding requtiremnt
ollocation of                                     directed credit.                                                     on ceommrcial banks to
credit.                                                                                                                121 of total portfolio.
b)e Government bhs Isscud a
Presidential Deerse reue-
Ing  goricultural lending
rquiremen on comemcial
ban&s froM 22.52 to 17.53
of total portfolio.
fn



VEEZUELA - FUIACIAL SECTOR ADJUSTdEM  LOAN
POLICY O ATRIX                                                              Page 3
lesoss and objectives   Actions taken to dat           By Board pr_sentationsW               By second treonche                  By third tranche
2. Rationalie public
*ector participation
in the financial
3-
2.1 Commercial           CV bas issued resolu-                                      a). The 3 banks owned by the           A All a boaks .i I hIet
banking system      tion starting the pri-                                          BCV will have beon brought         been divested fro, the
vatization of the a                                             to point of sae.  All             public sector.
commercial bank. it                                             valuation A tender or bid-
Owns,                                                           ding docu_mnts will have
been ecompleted to the sat-
isfnction of the Bsnk A
issued to prospective
purchasers.
a). Policy Statement indicates   b)s Government will specify an    Plan being corried out in
intention to restructure          action plan to restructure    accordance with its time
Bxv A its 4 regional banks        BIV A Its 4 regional banks,   froam.
A to liquidate BANDAGRO.          including specification of
its new role.
b)- Government will issue a
resolution forbidding BIV    c)  Submission to Congress of
A BANDAGRO to engoge In           Low to liquidate BANDACRO.
lending operations until
thoy are either restruc-
tured or liquidated.
2.2 Development                                   a  Policy Statment outlins        a )o Submission to Congres of
banking system.                                   the formtlon of two               proposed In for the cree-
second-tier credit insti-         tion of an agricultural
tutions (for industry &           soeond-tier c-edit Insti-
agriculture, respectively)        tution which would absorb
which will abaorb the             at least 3 funds.
largest funds. It *I**
Indicated the main steps      b)  Action plan to close          Plan being carried out in
to be taken to crete              BANDAGRO A form the egri-    accordance with its time
them                              cultural credit institution   frame.
will be presented to the
Bank.
c)* Submission to Congress of
proposed low for the cre-                                       z
ation of an Industrial
*scond-tier credit insti-                                    w
tutton, which would absorb
at least 2 funds.
d)  Action plan to create an      Plan being carried out In      0
industrial second-tier        aeccordnce with Its time       .



VBEZIA - FDWCIAL SECTOR ADJUMS              LOAN
POLICY MATRX                                                                Pe  4
Isues and objective    Actions taken to dcat          By Board presentatlon!/                By second trench.                  By third trenche
credit institution will be    frame.
prsented to the Bnk.
*)  Submission to Sank of stra-   e   Plan being carried out in
tegic plan Indicating rolo        accordance with its tim
of CORPODIXIISTRIA & ICAP as      frame.
first-tier Institutions A
en action plan foe their
rostructuring.
2.8 Houing finance                                                                  Submission to Bank of action       Plan being carried out tn
sy - _                                                                         plan to restructure & promote      accordance with Its time
the financial independence of     frme.
BAP, including phasing out of
a11 new government, CV or *x-
ternal sources of funding A ne
pollees In support of SAL.
3. Enhance the trans-
parency of tVu's
credit opsrations. 
3.1 BCV credit to                                *   BCV Board hns issed r_so-    a). Modifications to Public          *   lodifeitions to Bank Law
the  overnment                                    lution otating that no            Credit Law submitted to            submitted to Congress
should be sub-                                   zero-ylld T-bills will be         Congres to permit Issuance         will ellmionte us  of
ject to at all-                                  purchaed at any time               of fixed-term negotiable           T-bilS as In struments
encompasing                                      atter the date of Bord              hort-ter   -bille; Law            for resrve requ remnt.
e ling. BCY                                     pr_eentation,                      shold permit mrket detr-
should be free                                                                      mination of their price, &
to Invest In                                                                        should not specify prfoer-
Government debt                                                                     ontis0  order of placement
of any maturity                                                                     of suh b ll  ong differ-
subject only to                                                                     ant types of economic
this overlIl                                                                        agente.
credit ceilitng.
b)o Modifications to ecv Low
submitted to Congress will:
(t) alloo tho CV to pur-
chase fixed-term T-b111s
not n ees  orily redeemble
In the flescl year In which                                  g 
they are issued, at the
a'verago clearing price of
primary issu  auctions or
in the Secondary market; At
(i;) include KY holdings
of, or rights to, govern-                                    0
ment debt obtained through
debt equity swaps A any                                       l



VEhEIUA - FPDOMEIL SECTOR AD       MEN LA
POLICO MATRIX                                                              Pog 5
Iocu   e nd object;ive   Actions taken to date        Oy Board presentation!/               By second trench.                  Dy third trench.
kind of foreign eurrency
deominated debt in the
oversil credit lilit to the
Govrnm  t. The Iilit wilI
not be raised from the
leovl contalned in th, cur-
rent law. On a transitory
basis, purchase of overn-
*ent debt obtained through
ongoing debt reduction A
restructuring proprm  will
not be included In the
ceiling.
8.2 All subsidy pro-   Volume of redlecounts   a)  Policy Statement outlines    a)  BCV Board wlill l;ou  reso-
glram  should       has been cut slgn;ti-        Government'S Intention to         lution switching to market
flow through the    contly, with only one        turn the rediscount window        voluation of collateral on
notional budget,   bank receivlng funds.         Into a focility for tepo-         rediscounts, advances S
& should not                                     rary liquidity support            rpurchae  contracts.
originate In                                     onc  open-market capabi II -
ECYvs opers-                                     ties ore fully developed.    b)  oCV Board *ill I sue reso-
tions.                                                                             lution barring any new
Rediscount rate hao      b) KCY Board has Issued reso-         purchase  of banr credit
been brought up to           lution linking r discount         portfolIos.
close to averogo             rate to yield on BCV bills
market londing rt.           auctiond.  The gneral         c)  8CV Board will issue reo-
rediscount rate will be           lution requiring purchase
revlewed at le4st *wkly,         of all privete  debt instru-
will not be set below th          mnt by the  CV fro any
yield on DCV bills,   will *source at market valu.  In
apply to *al  financalo           no case will sueh instru-
Intermediaries (including         ent. be bought at a yield
BANAP A FOUDE).  A spe-           less than that offered on
cial rediscount rate,            ECV bills ir4 the secondary
equal to 85X of the gn-          market at the tine of pur-
oral rediscount rate, will        chaso of the Instruments.
be oppiled to rediscount-
Ing of agricultural docu-    d)e Modifications to BCV Law
_mnt.  The Policy State-          *ubmottod to Congress will
_ent Indicates that the           retrlct discounting,
specril rediscount rate          rediscounting, advoncing or                                  Os
will b. phosed out in step        repurchose contracts with
with agricultural prtefr-         financial institut0ion  to a
ential lending rote.             masximu duration of 30
days.
c)e KCv Board has Issued in-
structions to Vice-
presidont of Monetary
Operations establishing



VBEELA - fDW4 L SECTO AD.JMI  LU
POLCIC NAIRX                                                              po  8
Isues _ nd objective.  Actions take, to de           by Board pr e_tation!f               By second trench.                  By third trech.
tho procodur, for *uto-
matic r"ferret of large
borrowerr (e.ot thoso
with @ut tandlng DCV
credit In *xces of 263 of
their quity) to SBXF for
reVioW.
d) Policy Statement indicates
that the Government will
not fin nce ny hoiotng or
related sbeidies with KCV
contributions or profit..
a.3 KcY should not                              a). BCV Bord has Issued a          ) Submisston of progam           *  FOCADS portfolio to be
manage extern l                                 Reolution _andating that          acceptable to the Bank to        disengaged fre KW.
portfolIos;                                     oil direct transactions of       diseogage a11 poerttollo
these portfolIOs                                securlties betwen th KCY          freem KV (xcept FICAM).
should not be                                   A its m*nagd portfolios
use to finance                                  tako ple  at earkot           b)o Modifications of FOCADE Low
budget daficits.                                value. The only exception         submitted to Congres will
lII be the sale of *cur-         ollo  It to manage itoon                                    c
ities previously purchased       funds.
at face vslue hich can be
sold to the BCV at fces
we Ium.
PDVSA's portfolio *t    b) Submission of notice by
the BCV has ben drawn       KV to POVSA of non-
down entirely.              renewl of managesmnt
contract at *nd-1990.
4. Reform the Regulatory
Structure.
4.1 Redefine the                                Policy Statement describes the   o  Submission to Congress of
r lStory rolo                               division of labor between            proposed nem Low of SBIF to
Q *trengthen the                            institutions.                         inter alio:  (i) reorga-
financial auton-                                                                  n k  SBIf *s an autonomous
omy of: the                                                                       entity with Its own sources
Central Bank                                                                      of revenuo; a (ii) elimi-
(BCV), Ministry                                                                  nate Mms formal *excutive                                   ii
of Finance (MH),                                                                  & decision-making functions
the Superinten-                                                                   in tho operations of SIF.
dency of Banks
(SBIF), a the
deposit insur-                                                                                                                                o
ance corporation
(FOCADE).



VENEZEEA - FDSMICZL SECTO ADJIS1MT   LOW
PSetY                                                                      PoIXp   7
e suu and objctivs   Actions taken to date            By Board prese_tations/               0y second trancbe                  By third trench.
4.2 Strengthen prm-                              a). SBTF WIl iWsue a11 th.        a)e SBIF WIel isue A lmplement  *)  SBIF eii Isueo a new
dnttal norpl-                                    choang   requtird to             a*1  the chaneno   required to     chart of eccounts which
tione *uidit7ng,                                 tighten regulations on:           rgulate the valuation of          will facilitate full die-
& Information                                    provisloning. lose cleaw-         exchenp risk  loan concen-       closure of the financial
disclosr. Iu ifcations, roll-over of                                               tretion Imits a controls          condition of banks.
credits a accrual of              of intre-group traneae-
Interest, charge-offs,           tione, consolidation of       b)  SB8F will issu *udit
evaluation of Investment          accounte of finfnciel             guidelines in accordance
portfolios. a evaluation          groups, A uniform publica-        with tho mew ehart of
of property received as           tion criteria of financial        account.
col late I.                       t
C) S9IF Will sart i suIng a
b)+ S8IF will isse* iostrue-      b). Submission to Congre  of          sonthly bulletio diseloo-
tion to bonks to *nk              proposed ne  Law of S8IF to       ing the fintc7il coei-
auditors to includo               tighten norms on capital          tion of banks A the 6vor-
*cassmt of loan cltss-            requirment A lnding con-          *lI condition of the
feation a concentration          e ntration, A video the           financial system.
In audit.                        scope of sanctions & fines.
dt) Modifications to Bank Law
submitted to Congres
WI I  be pWoposea to
ensure consistency with     °
the nw proposd SBIF Law
and to elimt-ten any
retmining redundaneies.
. Improving the Finan-
cial Strenotb of
Intermediaries a
Upgrading tho Mechan-
ism for Oeltng with
Problem Banks.
6.1 Review financial                             *  SOIF will undortakto stud-    s  Completion of all studies
condition of                                     Ioe  of the financial con-        undertaken by the SSIF to
benks.                                           dition of all private             teo Sank's satisfaction.
commercial banks S
selected mortgage banks A
finance comapnie.  Tho e 
studies will focus on:                                                                         o 
portfolio roview, fixed                                                                       3e >
asset valuation, loan                                                                            x
coneontration, S foreign
exchange loss. es
6.2 Increase provt-                              a)+ S8IF will issue directive    a)  Review banks' complianee       Review banks' compliance with _
*ions for loan-                                  to banks to establish a           with loan-loss provision,      loan-loss provision & write- 
losses, foreign                                  general loan loss provi-          Establish additional pro-     off requirements.



VEZIUELA   FLNNIL SECTOR , JUS1M    LOMN
POLICY                                                                     Page
lssm" and objective    Actlono taken to da            Sy Board pronentattin!/               By eocond tranche                  By third trwnch
cichag. I oee_                                   aon of at loest 1.65 of           visioning or write-off
a charge-off bad                                 loann by December 1996 a          requirement. for Institu-
*neta.                                           26 of loans by June 1991.         tions that are in vulner-
Specific provisions will          able positions *ccording to
be counted spinet the             the studies performod under
gen eal provislon.                6.1.
b). SSIF will isue directivo    b)  SBIF wiII prepare A submit
to banks to write off             to tho  onok a program for
loans post due by  or            the aortization by inter-
than 86 months by June            mediaoro  of foreign
1991.                             exchange lose* assessed
under S. 1.
6.8 Establish                                    *   Policy Stateen t indicates                                      *   Modifications to Bonk Law
sounder require-                                 that the UN will stop                                               submitted to Congress
Mente for entry.                                 issuing lIcenses for                                                will incr        s *inimum
opening new banxk until                                             capital requirments for
the SBIF is strengthened.                                           entry to at  asst the
equivalent of USSS milI-
lion for co_e reril A
mortgag banks.
6.4 Improve the                                  a  Policy Statement defines       *). Modification to FOCAGE's      a)  Revioe FO¢ADE's Reg9s-
existing  ech-                                   the policy A procedures           Low will be submitted to          mento Interno in accord-
anisms for *n-                                   with regard to *anaging           Congres to:  (;) more             once with principles
aging a solving                                  bank criso.  rOGDE will           clearly define Its role in        established in Annexes
banking cries,                                   be provided with greater          the mangement of banking          VII a Vill.
capcity to handlo crinse         crises; (ii) strengthen its
Policy Statement outlines         mechanis  or r solution       b)e Monthly capital contribu-
progrsm of technical,             of crises; (iii) strengthen       tions to FOCADE will have
legal, institutiontl A            ;ts financial position; A         bee   ade by the  reoseury
tinancial upgrading of            (iv) enhance the transper-        after January 199. By
FOADE.                             ncy of Its operations A          third tranch* total con-
financial condition.              tributions should amount
to at least 661 of osti-
b)  FOCADE will eomission             Mated losses of FOCADE.
study to determine market
value of its assets under    c)e Presentation to Sank of   - >
management/ssle                   program to Complete the      z
recapitalization of        m
c)  FOGADE will have under-           FOCADE.  Program wi II
taken campaign to publicizo       take Into account losse s 
the types of accounts A           uncovered in the study A  ° <
institutions that *re            will contain timing of
covered, A its maximum            capital replenishment by  O
coverage limit.                   the Treasury.
00



VENEZUELA - FINUNCIAL SECT70 ADJUISWNOT LOAN
PuLICY MATRIX                                                               Page 9
Iuau. and objective.  Actions takon to dote          By Board pr.oentation!/                By second trancho                  By third trenche
d)* Modfic ations to Bank Law
submitted to Congrss
wi I establish the pro-
cedure. & the rolo of tho
vrIots government Ogen-
clog In solving bunk
Crise, as outlined In
Annex VII.
6. Enhance the competi-
tivo nature & fInan-
cial Strength of
financtal tntermedi-
aries.
6.1 Permit universal                                                                                                   *   Modifications to Bank Law
bank ing & pro-                                                                                                        submittod to Congres
mote consol ida-                                                                                                       will allo" universal
tion of finan-                                                                                                         bunking A introduce pro-
ctml intrmedi-                                                                                                         cedure  to focilitate
*ries.                                                                                                                 mergrs & consolidation   .
(e.g., of specialized     bJ
banks into universal
bankc).
6.2 Untify capital                                                                                                     a   Nodifications to Bank Law
rqu I rementu of                                                                                                       submitted to Congroes
comercial                                                                                                              will establish tho nsa
bunks, mortgge                                                                                                         minimum ex oqulty:total
bunks A fi ;nnce                                                                                                       asoett ratio for co_  r-
companioe.                                                                                                             cial bunks, mortgage
bOnks A finance compe-
nas. Tho Low should
permit tho future intro-
duction of a risk-
woightod System (includ-
Ing sow contingeneso)
for theo omputation of
the asset base.
6.3 Liberelize for-                                                                                                        Modifications to Bank Low
oign ownership                                                                                                         submitted to Congroes
of financial                                                                                                           Will:  (t) allow up to    o
institutions.                                                                                                          205 foroign ownerhip o
commercial banks (or 561
with the Ezecutivlt 
approval); (ii) allow      o
EXecutive to authorize
foreign institutions to 0



VeMIA -    iDWIAL SMR  P§sMEW  LOA1
OcC  MATRV                                                               Pawe 19
Insne and objectives   Actions taken to date         By Bord proeentation!/               By second tranche                  By third trench*
*cquir. up to futll o r
ship of, or to stabli ab
now, finincsil lnstite-
tions other then cemr-
ctol banks under opera-
tional criterIs to be
estabisihd by the
T. Macroeonolc                                     *  meI ntance of mroco-           *   Meintonce of macroeco-       *    eln ntenanc  of uscreee-
Fr_ework.                                           nomic policy frameork             nomic policy frameork            nooiC policy rf nork
consistent with the              consistent with the objec-        consistent with the
objective, of the fInann-        tive  of the fInancial            objectives of the
tI rform program.                reform progra.                   fn ncial reform program.
AlI Bord presontatlon conditions have been oet.
a SpecifIC condition for Board presentation or tranche release.
* Condition of fir t trncheo release.
40
0



-73 -                     ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5 pages
VENEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUST_ENT CREDIT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.          The technical assistance (TA) component is designed to assist in
the restructuring of government-owned banks and funds; strengthen the
Superintendency of Banks (SBIF), the Deposit Insurance Corporation (FOGADE),
the National Savings and Loans Bank (BANAP), and the Superintendency of
Insurance Companies; and assist in the development of capital markets. In
addition, it will provide funds to the coordinating unit in the Central Bank.
For each institution, financial assistance, among other, will be provided in
one or more of the following areas: (i) development of a new regulatory
framework; (ii) reorganization of the institutions' structure, policies and
procedures; (iii) development of training programs, (iv) funding of special
studies; and (v) upgrading of information systems. The TA component will cost
Us$7.0 million and is detailed in the table at the end of this annex.
2.          A unit will be established to coordinate and implement the
financial sector reform program. The unit will submit monthly reports to the
Executive Branch (through the Ministry of Finance) and to the BCV's Board of
Directors. It will be responsible for ensuring that the program's reforms are
effectively coordinated and implemented. It will also approve the hiring of
consultants to provide advice and perform studies as indicated below. In
order to assist the unit in its work and to coordinate the entire TA
component, an International Consultant will be contracted for 24 months at a
cost of US$8,000 per month for a total cost of US$192,000. A local consultant
will assist the International Consultant for 24 months at a cost of
US$3,000/month for a total cost of US$72,000.
3.          The a3mounts indicated for each of the institutions in Table 1
shall be global allocations. Each institution will have the flexibility to
reallocate funds from one function to another within each's global limit.
Reallocations greater than US$50,000 within one institution will require Bank
approval. All reallocations between institutions will also require Bank
approval. A sixth category of unallocated funds has also been included.
These funds can be allocated to each of the five institutions, subject to the
approval of the BCV Coordinating Unit Head, Chief Consultant, and the Bank.
I. Support for Legal Changes.
4.      Professionals with regulatory and legal experience will be contracted,
by the BCV coordinating unit, under the TA component to assist in the drafting
of amendments to the Central Bank Law, FOGADE Law, Bank Law, Laws for creation
of development credit funds, and the Public Credit Law. Such professionals
will also assist in the drafting of a new SBIP Law. These professionals
(lawyers and consultants) will be hired for approximately 2,300 hours at a
cost of US$100/hour for a total cost of US$230,000.
II. Support for the RestructurinR of Public Sector Financial Intermediation
5.          Assistance to the ministry of Finance (MR) in the Incorporation of
New Functions related to Credit Funds. US$200,000 will be allocated under the
TA component to assist the MH in the incorporation of credit funds. Studies



-74-                      ANNEX v
Page 2 of S pages
for their incorporation and restructuring will be contracted for US$104,000
and consultants w$il be contracted to coordinate the implementation of these
incorporation and restructuring plans (12 months Q US$5,000 and 12 months e
US$3,000).
6.          Restructuring of BIV.  The TA component vill assist the
restructuring of DIY by supporting the development of a restructuring plan
(US$100,000) and supporting a consultant (12 months @ US$5,000) to coordinate
the implementation of this action plan.
7.          Consolidation/Restructuring of BANDAGRO and Agriculture Funds.
Consolidation of agriculture funds and liquidation of BANDAGRO will be
achieved vith the assistance of an international consultant (US$7,000 x 12
months) and a. local consultant (US$3,000 x 18 months) who vill be responsible
for implementing the action plan below. A local or international firm will be
contracted for US$90,000 to develop and assist in the implementation w an
action plan for the consolidation of these funds. A firm will also be
contracted for US$70,000 to develop an action plan for the liquidation of
BANDAGRO an incorporation of selected functions into the new agricultural
credit fund.
8.          Consolidation/Restructuring of Industry and Commerce Funds.  As
with agriculture funds, consolidation of industry and commerce funds will be
achieved with the assistance of an international consultant (US$7,000 x 12
months) and a local consultant (US$3,000 x 18 months) who will be responsible
for implementing the action plan below. In addition, a local or lnternational
firm will be contracted for US$100,000 to develop and assist in the
implementation of an action plan for the consolidation of these funds.
9.          Restructuring of ICAP and CORPOINDUSTRIA.  Restructuring of ICAP
and CORPOINDUSTRIA will be assisted by studies contracted for development of
restructuring programs for each (US$55,000 each). Further, a consultant will
be contracted for 12 months I US$5,000/month to assist in the lmplementation
of the restructuring programs developed in the studies.
III. Support to the Superintendencv of Banks
10.         The TA component will provide approximately US$3.9 million to
restructure and strengthen the SBIF in support of the policy reforms contained
in the loan.
11.         Rezulatorv Framework.  Given the new role envisioned for the SBIF,
a new regulatory framework needs to be developed. The TA component will
provide funds to hire a highly experienced international consultant to prepare
a comprehensive regulatory framework for the SBIF and to direct the
implementation of the new regulations. The consultant will assist in
preparing the SBIP resolutions and draft legislation required for tranche
releases. This consultant will also supervise the work of other consultants,
acquisitions, and training at SBIF indicated below. The consultant will be
contracted for 24 months, with a salary of US$86,000month for a total cost of



-75 -                   ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5 pages
US$192,000. A local consultant will assist the Chief Coordinator for 24
months at a cost of USS3.000/month for a total cost of US$72,000.
12.         Information Systems.  The SBIF's ability to diagnose the financial
situation of the institutions under its supervision needs to be strengthened.
For this purpose, the TA component will provide US$1.6 million for consultant
assistance, computers and other equipment necessary to systematize information
collected from banks. This effort will result in an early warning system of
illiquidity and insolvency problems. It will consist of software, hardware
arid a network system. A MIS consultant will direct equipment purchases,
design information systems, adapt software to SBIF's needs, and train staff.
The cost of mainframe, personal computer and portable computer hardware will
be US$1,200,000, software US$100,000, and peripherals US$200,000. The HIS
consultant will receive US$5,000/month for 18 months for a total cost of
US$90,000.
13.         Manuals.  An international consultant (US$5,000/month for 6
months) and a local consultant (US$3,000/month for 12 months) will be
contracted to develop an inspection manual. Another local consultant
(US$3,000/month for 12 months) will also be contracted to develop a synthesis
of revised SBIF norms. The total cost of preparing these manuals will be
US$102,000.
14.         Trainina.  TA component funds will be provided to the SBIF to
train personnel and to build up a solid team of bank inspectors who can
effectively monitor compliance with prudential norms and regulations. These
funds will finance staff participation in courses and seminars held in
Venezuela and abroad. Forty training trips abroad will be funded, at a cost
of US$4,000/trip. The following in-house courses will be offered: four
courses on credit evaluation (US$100,000 each), two courses on financial
analysis of banks (US$100,000 each), and two courses on internal control of
banks (US$50,000 each). Each in-house course offered will be for 30 people.
Total training costs at the SBIF are estimated at US$860,000.
15.         External Audlts of Credit Portfolios.  The TA component will
provide US$1,200,000 to perform external audits of the 100 largest credits in
50 selected institutions ((US$240 per credit) x (100 credits) x (50
institutions)). The estimated cost per credit of US$240 assumes that auditors
familiar with each bank audit each credit in 6 hours at a cost per hour of
US$40. This will include 31 private commercial banks and 19 mortgage banks
and finance companies identified by the SBIF as in the most precarious
financial position. These studies should be completed in approximately three
months and immediately submitted both to SBIF and the Bank. Such submission
will be a condition for second tranche release.
IV.  SupDort to FOGADE
16.         FOGADE's new role will be strictly defined and limited to
rehabilitating ailing financial institutions, assisting in their merger, and
liquidating banks. The TA component will support the definition of this role
and implementation of measures to achieve it through a program costing
US$34.,000.



- 76 -                   ANNEXV
Page 4 of 5 pages
17.         Goals. ManaLement and O2erating Procedures.  An international
consultant will be contracted for 2 years at US$7,O0o/month (US$168,000) to
redefine the objectlves of FOGADE, and develop a new operational plan,
procedures and staffing profiles to achieve these objecti . The consultant
will advise in the drafting of amendments to the FOGADE Lay and the Bank Law,
will coordinate a study of FOGADE's financial condition, and will supervise
training of FOGADE staff.
18.         Study of FOGADE's Financial Condition.  A consulting fLrm will be
contracted to assess FOGADE's financial condition and design a medium-term
financial management and capitalization plan. In particular, the study will
evaluate the market value of the assets which FOGADE purchased from the BCV
upon its creation, assets it has acquired in the process of bank assistance
operatlons, and assets it can expect to acquire in future operations. The
cost of thls study will be US$100,000.
19.         TraLinng.  The TA component will provide US$80,000 for 20 training
trips abroad for selected FOGADE staff, costing US$4,000 each.
V.    Sunort of Refoms of the Savin_s and Loan System
20.         BANAP and the S&L system are facing serious financLal problems,
and hence, US$212,000 from the TA component has been allocated to assess the
financial position of BANAP and S&Ls, and develop a restructuring program.
21.         Studies on SLs and BANAP.  The TA component will provide
US$90,000 for studles of the value of portfolios of 20 S&Ls (US$4,500 each).
US$50,000 will also be allocated to prepare a study of the fLnancLal position
of BANA? (lncorporating the findings from the 20 studies) and to develop an
action plan for its financLal restructuring.
22.         RegulatorX Framework and Financial Restructurkng.  A full-time
consultant wlll be hired tot (i) develop and implement actlon plans for the
merger, restructuring or liquidation of S&Ls taking into account the studies
commissioned; and (ii) implement an action plan to financially restructure
BANAP in accordance with the restructurlng plan suggested in the study. The
consultant's assignment would be for 12 months, at US$6,000/month for a total
of US$72,000.
VI.   SuDiDort to the SuDerlntendency of Insurance Companies
23.         A diagnosis of the financial situation of the insurance industry
and regulatory changes required to strengthen lt will be supported with
US$447,000 from the TA component.
24.         Coordination of Studies and Norm Desian.  An international
consultant wlll be contracted for 12 months (at US$6,0oojmonth) to coordinate
studies of individual Lnsurance companies (see below), integrate these studles
into an analysis of the insurance industry, and design revised norms for the
Superintendency, for a total cost of US$72,000.
25.         Evaluation of Condition of Insurance and Reinsurance Companies.
Flfty companies wlll be evaluated in order to assess the state of the



77-                    ANEX V
Page 5 of 5 pages
insurance industry. The cost of each study will be US$7.500, with a total
cost of US$375,000.
VII. Capital Markets DeveloDment
26.         The TA component will assist the Government in facilitating the
development of Capital Markets by commissioning studies to assess the
functioning of these markets, determine what legal or institutional
constraints exist to their further development, and develop an action plan for
legal and institutional reform. These studies will cost US$200,000.
VII. Unallocated
27.         US$289,000 has been allocated to supplement funds provided in the
previous five categories.



ANNEX V
-78 -                    Table I
Page 1 of 2 pages
VENEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT COSTS
(US Dollars)
International Consultant (24 mos * US$8,0001mo)                          192,000
Legal Local Concultant (24 moo Q US$3000/mo)                 72,000
1. SuDnort for Lesal Assistance
Legal Assistance/Advice (2,300 hre I US$100/hr)                       230,000
2. Support for the Restructuring of Public Sector Y   vAcial Intermediation
Assistance to the Ministry of Finance (MH) in
the Incorporation of Credit Funds                                    200,000
Development of Action Plans for Incorporation
of Funds                                              104,000
Consultant to Coordinate Implementation of Action
Plans (12 mos x US$5,000/mo) + (12 mo x US$3,000/mo)  96.000
Restructuring of BIV                                                  160,000
Development of Action Plan for Restructuring of BIV    100,000
Local Consultant to coordinate implementation of BIV
Restructuring Plan (12 mos I US$5,000)                 60.000
Development of Consolidated Agricultural Credit Fund                  298,000
Develop Action Plan for consolidation
of Agricultural Funds                                  90,000
Development of Action Plan for liquidation of
BANDAGRO                                               70,000
International Consultant to coordinate implementa-
tion of Action Plans (12 mos I US$7,000/mo)            84,000
Local Consultant to assist implementation of
Action Plan (18 moo I US$3,000/mo)                      54.000
Development of Consolidated Industrial Credit Fund                    238,000
Develop Action Plan for consolidation of
Industrial Funds                                      100,000
International Consultant to coordinate implementa.
tion of Action Plans (12 moo 0 US$7,000)               84,000
Local consultants to assist implementation of
Action Plans (18 mos x US$3,000/mo)                     54.000
Restructuring of ICAP & CORPOINDUSTRIA                                170,000
Development of Actlon Plan to Restructure ICAP           55,000
Development of Astion Plan to Restructure
CORPOINDUSTRIA                                         55,000
Consultant to Coordinate Implementation of
Action Plans (12 moe I US$5,000/mo)                    60.000
Subtotal                                                     1,656,000
S. Superintendency of 8anks
International Consultant/Ccordlnator
(24 moo I US$8,000/mo)                                              192,000



ANNEX V
- 79 -                   Table 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
Local Consultant(24 moo I US$3,000/mo)                                 72,000
Information System                                                  1,590,000
MIS Consultant 118 moo I US$5,000/mo)                     90,000
Hardware                                              l,lO0,000
Software                                                200,000
Peripherals                                             200.000
Manuals                                                               102,000
International Consultant (6 mos 0 US$5,000)              30,000
Local Consultant (12 mos I US$3,000)                      36,000
Manual on Rules & Regulations
Local Consultant (12 mos 0 US$3,000)                    36.000
Training                                                              860,000
Training Trips (40 0 US$4,000/trip)                     160,000
Credit/Evaluation courses (4 . US$100,000)               400,000
Financial Analysis courses (2 1 US$100,000)             200,000
Internal Control courses (2 0 US$50,000)                100.000
External Audits (50 institutions @ US$24,000)                       1.200.000
Subtotal                                                     3,944,000
4*. Denosit Insurance Cornoration
Consultant to establish new Goals, Management &
Operating Procedures (24 mos 8 US$7,000/mo)                         168,000
Study on FOGADE's Financial Condition &
Medium-Term Action Plan                                             100,000
Training Trips (20 6 US$4,000/trip)                                    80.000
Subtotal                                                       348,000
S. SaYSngs & Loan System
Study of Financial Condition of 20 S&Ls (US$4,500 ea)                  90,000
Study of Financlal Condition of BANAP & Action
Plan for Restructuring                                               50,000
Consultant to Restructure BANAP & S&Ls
(12 moo 6 US$6,000/mo)                                               72.000
Subtotal                                                       212,000
6. SunEriltend ev of Insurance Comnanies
International Consultant to Analyze Insurance Indus-
try & Design of New Rules (12 moo 6 US$6,000/mo)                     72,000
Diagnosis of Insurance Companies (50 I US$7,500)                      375.000
Subtotal                                                       447,000
7.  otmital Markets Develonment
Study of Mechanisms to Improve the Functioning of
Capital Markets                                                     200,000
8. NhaliocaIed                                                           121.000
Total                                                         76.000.000



- 80 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 6 pages
VENEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CHANGES IN PRUDENTIAL REGUATIONS
1.    The Government is committed to overhauling its banking regulatory framework
and modernizing the Superintendency of Banks (SBIP). Under the loan, the
Governmeut will improve the prudential regulatory framework and banking
supervision through a combination of proposed legal reforms and changes in
administrative norms  and regulations  at the SBIF.    Implementation of a
modernization and strengthening program will also be undertaken with technical
assistance funds provided by this operation (see Annex V).
I.Chanaes in Legislation
2.    Under the loan, a proposed new Law of Superintendency (SBIF Law) will be
presented to Congress by December 1990. This proposed Law will clarify the role,
organization, functions and powers of the SBIF as well as establish key
prudential regulations. The proposed SBIF Law will modify the substance and
spirit of several articles of the current Bank Law as well as provide new
provisions for issues not currently being addressed.
3.   A main feature of the proposed Law would be to increase the administrative,
functional and financial autonomy of the SBIF. Provisions in the proposed Law
would ensure that: (i) SBIF has sufficient autonomy and is shielded from
political interference, (ii) the overall regulatory framework is adequate,
(iii) SBIF has adequate resources to hire, train and retain competent personnel
and acquire appropriate technology; and (iv) SBIF has sufficient authority to
enforce its decisions without having to resort to the extreme action of recalling
a bank's charter to operate. The proposed Law would provide SBIF with powers
to carry out the following actions: impose fines and non-pecuniary penalties,
issue cease and desist orders, restrict dividend payments, restrict branching,
limit special operations in which managers have no expertise, intervene banks,
request administrative actions, remove or fine managers and directors, force
write-offs and provisions, force changes in published financial statements,
require capital increases, and impose special punitive reserve requirement
regimes.
4.    The following changes in the Banking Law should be superseded, modified
and subsumed in the SBIP Law:
o Bank licenses should be authorized by the SBIF.
O JBIP should have the power to authorize:  (i) the dissolution of financial
entities, (ii) mergers, (iii) sales of equity, (iv) capital expansion or
reduction, tv) changes of objectives, and (vi) changes in statutes.
O SBIF should have the power to suspend or revoke licenses of banks and finance
companies.
O Variation in reserve requirements according to location should be eliminated.
O Reserve requirements should not be allowed to be held in T-bille.



- 81 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 6 pages
o New branches should be authorized by the SBIF, if necessary.
O Minimum capital requirements for the opening of new banks and finance
companies 3hould be increased to the equivalent of US$6 million. This amount
should not be made to vary according to geographic location, and should be
adjusted periodically to maintain its real value. The Superintendent should
be authorized to raise (but not lower) the minimum capital requirement at his
discretion.
O A global leverage limit should be established of a minimum capital and
reserves to assets ratio of 5X for commercial banks, housing banks and finance
companies. In the future, consideration should be given to switching to a
risk-weighted capital requirement.
O The organizational guidelines for the SBIF should be revised to reflect a new
authority structure to achieve new goals and objectives.
O The scope of provisioning requirements should be broadened and SBIF enabled
to issue general provisioning norms and establish more precise rules for
accruing interest on credits. Provisioning criteria for investments and other
kinds of assets should also be included.
o Clearer limits on lending concentration should be established. The definition
of related party should be clarified and made more specific. There should not
be exceptions based on location, type of business, or public vs. private
ownership.
O Application of special loss amortization provisions should be limited to those
cases of banks undergoing rehabilitation.
O Guidelines for bank liquidation should be modified in order to reflect
standards provided in Annex VII on Handling Bank Crises.
o Law should modify relationship among FOGACE, BCV and SBIF in treatment of
problem banks to reflect suggestions in Annex VII on Handling Bank Crises.
In this context, SBIF should have the authority to take action (intervention
or preventive capitalization) without previous clearance from FOGADE and BCV.
O Administrative sanctions for non-compliance with legal norms should be
strengthened through increases in fines and updated to maintain their real
value. Non-pecuniary penalties should also be prescribed where appropriate.
O SBIF's Law should take precedence over the respective laws of specialized
banks.
O The proposed SBIP Law will grant autonomy to the SBIF by transforming it into
an independent agency.
O Ample decision making authority will be granted to the SBIF, and any
requirements for approval by the NH of the SBIP's actions will be eliminated.
o The following actions will require approval from a Consultative Committee
composed of the Minister of Finance, the President of the BCV, the President of
FOGADE and the Superintendent: (i) the intervention, dissolution or liquidation



-82 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 6 pages
of financiaL institutions, (Ui) the revocation or suspension of bank licences,
(iii) the fixing of the minimum capital requirement, and (iv) any other matters
that the Superintendent refers to the Consultative Committee.
II.   Administrative Changes in Resulations
5.    Beyond legal changes, the operations of SBIF must be transformed in order
to strengthen the regulation of financial institutions. This section indicates
the reforms of the regulatory framework which should be established through
administrative directives or resolutions.   These should be used as general
guidelines only and further refined to accommodate Venezuelan conditions.
A. Asset Quality Assessment. Accounting Regulations and Provisioning
6.    Loan Portfolio Classification. Every semester, each financial institution
should be required by SBIF to review the quality of most (perhaps 70Z) of its
loan portfolio and classify each loan in its portfolio according to specified
criteria. Failure to subrit such loan valuations should be sanctioned by fines.
Loans should be classified based both objectively on performance and subjectively
on the debtor's financial condition and cash flow position. In particular, each
bank will examine: (i) the repayment status of loans, including rollovers; (ii)
the capacity to pay of the borrower, including earnings from operations,
investments which support these earnings, and the indebtedness; and (iii) the
quality of loan guarantees, including how the guarantees are legally constituted
and the value of rapid liquidation of pledged assets.
7.   Using these criteria, commercial loans would be expected to assessed and
placed into the following categoriess Normal Loans would be those less than S0
days past duel' and adequately guaranteed. Specially Mentioned Loans would be
those which although still current, exhibit some characteristic suggesting the
potential for partial uncollectibility in the future. Potentially Problematic
Loans would be those that ares (i) 30-90 days past due; (ii) showing signs that
liquidity generation may not be sufficient to cover loan payments in the short-
term but will generate funds after a short-term lapse; (iii) those where the
borrower has increased leverage above a prudent point for the section in which
the firm is operating, or (iv) those where guarantees cannot be quickly and
easily liquidated or some doubts exist as to their documentation. Doubtful Loans
would be those (i) 90-365 days past due; (ii) with payments judicially suspended;
those where (iii) information about the borrower is insufficient, confused, not
audited or too old to determine potential recovery; (iv) litigation has begun
against the borrower; (v) evidence exists suggesting the incapacity of borrower
to satisfy contractual obligations and an inability to recover its short-term
financial position; (vi) uncertainty exists over total debt recovery; (vii) doubt
exists over the ability to exercise guarantees unless at a discount; or (viii)
individual borrowers have had their financial position compromised through
divorce or through the transfer of key assets to family members or others. Lost
Loans would be those where: (i) the borrower or principal shareholder have
11 Past due is defined as: (i) principal or interest past due more than 30 days;
(ii) the loan has been capitalized, refinanced or rolled over in such a way
as to cover payment of at least 30 days' interest; or (iii) Current accounts
(working capital) exceed authorized repayment limits or have maturities of 30
or more days.



-83 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 6 pages
declared bankruptcy; (ii) no documentation exists or grave defects exist in the
form of the guarantee, legal procedures for asset seizure, or legal processes
for execution and adjudication are difficult, slow and probably will be
unsuccessful; or (iii) no interest payment has been received in 365 days and no
interest has been showed by the borrower in negotiating alternative financing
mechanisms.
8.    Because consumer loans are generally small and time-consuming to monitor
they are best placed into the above categories automatically according to the
number of monthly payments past due. Collateralized housing loans generally have
predictable collateral and are therefore similarly classified automatically
according to the number of monthly payments past due.
9.    Classification of Other Investments and Off-Balance Sheet Commitments.
Improved mechanisms for evaluating, valuing and provisioning for financial
investments, fixed assets and contingent credit obligations should also be
developed at SBIF. In particular, losses in the difference between historic and
market values of debt (including government bonds) or equity should be
appropriately provisioned. Improved mechanisms for valuing guarantees would also
need to be developed at SBIF.   Finally, as SBTF develops an improved bank
accounting and financial reporting system, it should also increase its capacity
to assess off-balance sheet commitments and require provisions for such
commitments if necessary. Since in Venezuela required provisions will likely
be significant for a number of banks, it is recommended that a phased-in program
for establishing such provisions be developed.
10.         Provisioning.  The principal behind adequate provisioning is that
full provi ions should be established for the expected loss for each loan
category.-I   The following percentages are general indicators of possible
probabilities of loss and therefore the provision amounts   Normal (none);
Specially Mentioned Loans (1X); Potentially Problematic Loans (202); Doubtful
Loans (50S); and Lost Loans (100X). Since in Venezuela required provisions will
likely be significant for a number of banks, it is recommended that a phased-
in program for establishing such provisions be developed. A 2U general loan-
loss provision should be assessed against the entire amount of the portfolio.
When specific provisions exceed 21 of the total portfolio, the general loan-
loss provision will not apply.
11.         The  system  to  control  provisions  should  be  that  financial
institutions will indicate provisions established according to their portfolio
quality assessment and SBEF inspectors evaluate the sufficiency of such
provisions. Penalties should be imposed if large discrepancies exist between
the institutions' assessment of required provislons and SEIF's.
12.         Write-off Procedures.  Write-offs should occur independently of the
judicial process which often takes several years. At a minimum, after a loan
is 36 months past-due it should be required to be written off regardless of its
legal status.
2/ The formula for reaching such a provision would bet [(Probability of default)
* (Outstanding Loan Balance)) - (Immediate liquidation value of guarantee +
legal and administrative costs).



-84 -                    ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 6 pages
13.         Relrosranmins. Rescheduling or Refinancint of Loans. Reprogramming,
rescheduling or refinancing of loans should take place only after a financial
institution has verified the financial viability of the borrower and has received
a separate strengthened guarantee to ensure the new commitment. The borrower
should be required to pay all past-due interest before a loan is rescheduled.
Rescheduled loans should in no case enable institutions to cancel provisions for
doubtful accounts nor should such rescheduling improve the status of the loan
as determined by the financial institution and SBIF inspectors. Rescheduled
loans should be shown separately in the balance sheet.
14.         Interest Accrual.    Separate balance sheet accounts  should be
established for accrued yet uncollected interest.  In any case, no interest
should be recognized as income for loans past due more than 30 days.
B. Loan Concentration and Lendini to Related Parties
15.         Mechanisms should be developed to limit risk concentration or lending
to related parties.   In this way, banks should limit loans to individual
borrowers or to those groups indicated below to a percentage of equity. Such
groups would include shareholders, management (or those with relations with
members of management that have input into credit decisions,, subsidiaries,
affiliated companies, and presumed related parties. SBIP should also develop
controls on bank exposure to related economic Rroups and risk units
(organizations whose economic solvency, fund generation or future viability
depends on one of the above components).
16.         While limits on loans to related parties is a legal matter, such
limits should include (i) a global limit of loans to related parties (not to
exceed 25Z of capital and reserves), (ii) limits on lending to acquire shares
in other companies, and (iii) limits on the amount of loans to a single
individual, family or financial group. Each of these limits should be determined
as a percentage of a financial institution's capital and reserves.   It is
imperative that a system of fines and sancti-as be developed and enforced by SBIF
in order for lending limits to be effectively applied.
C. Other Risks
17.         It is important that SBIP assess and monitor foreian exchange risk,
maturitylinterest rate risk, and sectoral/business risk.   The SBIF should
consider mechanisms to control net foreign exchange exposure and net maturity
risk exposure of fixed rate instruments for financial institutions. Foreign
exchange losses could be assessed and provisioned for according to a phased-in
program. improved and more clear mechanisms are also needed for the amortization
of foreign exchange losses.
D.  Account Consolidation
18.         SBIF should develop a program to consolidate the financial statements
of overseas branches with those of domestic operations of Venezuelan banks.
Recognizing that such consolidation could significantly increase the leverage
of many banks, such a program should involve a phase-in of leverage limitations
for the overseas branches. SBIP should also consider the imposition of financial
norms for financial groups based on consolidated financial statements.



- 85 -                   ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 6 pages
E.  Information Disclosure and Audit Recuirements
19.         Information Disclosure. An adequate level of information disclosure
is critical to facilitate public scrutiny of the performance of banks which
allows depositors to discriminate between banks.   SBIF should publish on a
monthly basis a summary of the financial statements of each financial institution
and key indicators for the financial system. Such bulletins should calculate
key financial indicators of asset quality, capital adequacy, liquidity and
profitability for each institution. Further, aggregate data should be provided
in such bulletins indicating for example, monetary aggregates, foreign exchange
exposure, and system-wide liquidity and asset quality. In addition, financial
institutions should be required by SBIF to clearly note to depositors in new
account information, passbooks and advertising that their deposits are insured
up to the amount established by law.
20.         In addition, SBIF should establish mechanisms to consolidate the
financial statements of parties within financial groups and disclose summaries
of this information in the monthly bulletins.
21.         Audit Remuirements.  The SBIF should establish clear guidelines and
standards on the scope of audits. Auditors should be required to audit the loan
portfolio including adequacy of loan loss provisions.   As SBIF revises its
account manual, it should carefully disseminate the criteria for such accounts
to both auditors and financial institutions to ensure that the accounting
criteria are well understood and to make it clear that sanctions will be applied
when SBIF requires account reclassification.
F.  Bank Manatement and Internal Controls
22.         Internal bank management procedures and control mechanisms are as
revealing as the financial statements themselves in determining the condition
and risks of banks. Furthermore, the viability of a bank in the long term is
given by the current quality of its management. It is important that the SBIF
devote more effort to assessing the quality of banks' management and controls.
Accordingly, the SBIF should develop a capability to make assessments in this
area.



- 86 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3 pages
VENEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MECHANISMS FOR HANDLING BANK CRISES
The banking legislation proposed to Congress under the financial sector reform
program must contain mechanisms that allow the resolution of banking crises in
an effective and timely manner. The key is to clearly specify the situations
that may require action on the part of banking authorities, and the nature of
the actions that will be prompted in those cases. The cases and administrative
processes that should be envisioned under the proposed legislation are detailed
below.
1.          Gradual decanitalization.   This case arises when an institution
ceases to comply with the capital requirements becauses (i) the institution has,
through steady over-borrowing, surpassed the permissible leverage ratio for more
than 30 days; or (ii) the financial institution incurs in losses, or the SBIF
detects the existence of losses, that would reduce its equity by less than 50Z.
When the SBIF determines that such a case has occurred, it will apply a
preventive surveillance regime (reaimen de viailancia nreventiva), under which
institutions will be subjected to the following measures:
a)  Neutralization of the lending capacity of the institution until it
reaches the required capital ratio. This will be achieved with the
imposition of a special non-remunerated reserve requirement held at
the BCV in an amount given by: (i) the increase in the level of
deposits or other obligations by the bank over and above their level
on the date on which the r6gimen was imposed; and (ii) any loan
recoveries obtained after that date.
b) SBIF authorization will be required in order to the use the BCV's
rediscounting facilities.
c) Depending on the nature of the problems and the prospects for their
solution, the SBEF can impose a special surveillance (veeduria),
under which the veedor retains veto power over all Board decisions.
If the capital position of the bank deteriorates further, the SBIF's actions will
revert, depending on the case, to those for cases of either acute
decapitalization (case 2 below) or continued non-compliance with the SBlF's
orders and regulations (case 6c below).
2.          Acute decapitalization. When the SBIF detects losses in a financial
institution that would drive the institution into non-compliance with the minimum
capital ratio and reduce its equity by more than 50?, it will apply a capital
re! lenishment regime (r4gimen de repcsicifn natrimonial) for a period not to
excecd 90 days. The SBIF will summon shareholders to replenish capital within
this period, and will subject the institution to the following measures:



- 87 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3 pages
a) Neutralization of the lending capacity of the institution with the
imposition of a special non-remunerated reserve requirement to be
held at the BCV in an amount given by: (i) the increase in the level
of deposits or other obligations by the bank over and above their
level on the date on which the reitimen was imposed; and (ii) any loan
recoveries perceived after that date.
b) No access to BCV rediscounts.
c) Special surveillance by the SBIF through a veeduria. The veedor,
appointed by the SBIF, has veto power over all Board decisions or
operations of the bank.
During this 90 day period, SBIF and FOGADE will analyze the viability of the
institution. If any more losses are detected that would further undermine the
institution's net worth, SBIP will require shareholders to put ip the additional
capital during the same period of 90 days.
3.          Intervention bI SBIF. If existing shareholders fail to satisfy the
SBIF's request for additional capital in the prescribed period, SBIF and FOGADE
will jointly determine whether the institution will be rehabilitated or
liquidated. The minimum cost alternative will be chosen, taking into account
the guaranteed deposit payments required of FOGADE in the case of liquidation
(case 5 below). If the rehabilitation option is chosen, SBIF will adopt the
following measures simultaneouslyt
a) Intervention of the institution, with displacement of the general
assembly of shareholders.
b) Removal of directors. On a transitory basis, the SBIP will assume
the management of the bank.
c) Charge-off of losses against equity.
d) Capital subscription offering to FOGADE in the amount necessary to
consolidate the institution's capital position.
These measures will be undertaken in simultaneous fashion so that the SBIF's
administration of the bank will not exceed 24 hours. Once FOGADE has subscribed
the new capital, the institution ceases to be under intervention, as FOGADE then
acts as majority owner of the institution (case 4 below).  The procedure is
designed to recognize losses and inject new capital without undermining the
public's confidence in the bank.
4.          Financial assistance by POGADE. FOGADE's financial assistance will
occur mostly through capital injections into ailing institutions.  FOGADE will
administer or financially support institutions only after a majority of shares
have been voluntarily sold or pledged to it. If larger than expected losses
become apparent later on, FOGADE can subscribe additional capital only if the
volume of additional capital required is less than the cost to FOGADE of



- 88 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3 pages
satisfying the deposit guarantee. As the majority owner of the bank, FOGADE will
assume the management of the bank. It will be allowed to increase, diminlish,
restructure or change the value of the bank's stock.  Likewise, it will be
authorized to restructure the bank's operations, personnel and internal policies
and procedures. To this effect, FOGADE can purchase any assets frow the bank
at market value. Liquidity support to the institution will be provided by FOGADE
rather than the BCV, but only under market conditions. Within a period of one
year, FOGADE must sell its entire ownership participation in the bank.
5.          Liquidation.  All forced liquLdations must be handled by FOGADE.
FOGADE will pay-off guaranteed deposits, and will assume the claim on those
deposits. FOGADE's claims on liquidation proceeds will have the same priority
as any claims by the Treasury. FOGADE, as the receiver of the liquidated bank,
should be authorized to sell any assets individually or In bundles, or to set
up trusteeships (fideicomisos) holding those assets under litigation.
Consideration should be given to granting FOGADS special coercive powers to
recover assets, and to requiring FOGADE to sub-contract all asset recovery and
sale procedures. FOGADE should strive to complete liquidation procedures within
two years.
6.          Intervention by SBIF for other reasons.  The following occurrences
should prompt an intervention or special surveillance (through a veeduria) by
SBTF, depending on the nature of the cases
a) Administrative or managerial instability, where serious disputes
among managers andlor directors undermine the normal operation of
the bank.
b)  Acute and persistent liquidity crisis, with rediscounts at the BCV
in excess of the banks' equity.
c)  Recurring non-compliance with the SBIF's orders, especially in the
areas of loan classification and provisioning, loan concentration,
or  the  special  reserve  requirement  imposed  in  cases  of
decapitalization.
d)  When there are reasons to doubt that the bank's accounts reflect its
true financial position.
In any of these cases, the actions taken by the SBIF will be geared towards
solving the particular problems detected in a period of less than si months.
To accomplish this, the SBIF will be authorized to remove directors, replace
management, and implement changes in the bank's policies, procedures and
operations. If the problem deteriorates into, or makes epparent a process of
decapitalization, the sBiP will impose the pertinent regime as described above
(cases 1 or 2 above).



- 89 -                   ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 5 pages
VENEZUELA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTMIN_ING OF FOGADE
I. Reform of FOGADE's Law
1.          Below are the proposed changes to FOGADE's Law (Estatuto Oruinico
del Fondo de Garantia te Dep6sitos v Proteccion Bancaria). They are intended
to: (i) more clearly define its functions and role within the financial sector
regulatory framework; (ii) set up a suitable organizational structure that is
responsive to the requirements imposed on both FOGADE and the Superintendency;
(iii) strengthen the operational procedures of FOGADE by broadening the
mechanisms with which it can fulfill its role and by favoring rules over
discretion; (iv) provide a level of financing that is commensurate with its role;
and (v) clarify the accounting principles by which FOGADE should abide in order
to reflect accurately the costs and losses assumed by FOGADE.
2.          It is expected that most of these changes will be reflected in the
proposed revised Law that should be submitted to Congress by the end of 1990.
Some of the items, however, could be implemented with changes in FOGADE's
administrative regulations including changes in its Reglamento Interno.
A. Definition of Basic Functions and Operations
3.          The proposed revised Law should state as a general principle that
any financial support from FOGADE should not benefit existing shareholders and
should be conditional on the replacement of management. It should also be made
explicit that FOGADE will continue being a mechanism to liquidate or rehabilitate
insolvent institutions and that it shall not become a mechanism for keeping
alive insolvent institutions.
4.          The proposed revised Law should specify broad criteria for the
determination of the course of action to be followed in crises. FOGADE should
adopt the minimum cost alternative including liquidation, subject to the
preservation of the stability of the banking system as a whole.   This
notwithstanding, FOGADE's rescue operations should not necessarily be geared
towards recovering its own investments in troubled institutions as its
fundamental business is likely to require FOGADE to absorb losses.
5.          Aside from its deposit payoff function, the current Law lays out
FOGADE's role as an winstrumetnt of supportT for problem banks. This latter role
should be strengthened to include active management of bank crises.  FOGADE
should always be the receiver in cases of liquidation.
B. Oraanizational Structure and Relations with Superintendency
6.          FOGADE's current two-tier Board system should be replaced with a
single Board with members having recognized technical expertise in the banking
area.
7.          All actions by FOGADE should be prompted by the referral of the SBIF.
The proposed revised Law must clarlfy that, while FOGADE participates in the



- 90 -                  ANNX I1I
Page 2 of 5 pages
solution to the crisis, SBIF continues to be responsible for the examination and
supervision of the institution.   FOGADE acts in the institution as equity
investor, but does not assume SBIF's normal functions as supervisor.
8.          SBIF rather than FOGADE should be the one to require banks'
submission of semi-annual audits. Audits should be available to FOGADE under
specific circumstances.   Similarly, SBIF rather than FOGADE should outline
wrongful behavior on the part of bank managers and shareholders. The proposed
revised Law should specify the cases in which FOGADE could request information
from the SBIF. FOGADE should not have an active role in maintaining a data base
on the condition of the financial system. The entire chapter on sanctions and
enforcement powers could be transferred to the SBIF's new proposed Law as these
correspond to SBIF. A single article should establish sanctions against the non-
payment of bank assessments.
C. Qperational Procedures: Rehabilitation anld Financial Assist.ance
9.          No financial assistance will be offered by FOGADE unless a majority
of bank shares have been voluntarily sold or pledged to it. Distribution of
dividends should be restricted and require the authorization of FOGADE in all
cases while the institution is under a rehabilitation program. In the same vein,
FOGADE should authorize increases in salaries or other operational costs while
the institution is under a rehabilitation program.
10.         No long-term assistance should be provided to financial institutions
as FOGADE's role is strictly rehabilitation or liquidation. Accordingly, the
maximum maturity on loans offered by FOGADE should be reduced from 10 years to
5 years.
11.         Any loans provided by FOGADE should be given at average market
lending rates. Likewise, any asset purchases should be valued at market price
according to the valuation criteria established by the SBIF. No special Board
approval procedures should be required for asset purchases from troubled banks
as opposed to any other forms of financial assistance.
12.         Financial assistance to non-intervened institutions should have the
same approval procedures as for intervened institutions, without authorization
from the National Executive.
13.         Any bank shares purchased by FOGADE should be reprivatized within
a year in order to avoid a de-facto nationalization of banking services.
D. Operational Procedures: Liquidations and DeDosit Payoffs
14.         The procedure for deposit payoffs in cases of liquidation, including
the timing of all actions, should be clearly specified, and should not require
approval by the Ministry of Finance. Deposit payoffs should be initiated only
after liquidation has been declared. In cases where the deposit guarantee must
be paid off, the Law should allow: (i) cash payments directly to the depositor,
or (it) deposit transfers to other financial institutions, where FOGADE would
compensate these institutions at less than the full value of the deposits assumed
by them.



- 91 -                 ANNE  1I
Page 3 of S pages
15.         Interest should accrue on the guaranteed amount of deposits from
the day the liquidation is ordered to the day payments on the guarantee are
actually adds. This interest would not be counted towards the coverage limit
specified in the Law, and would be calculated on the basis of market interest
rates.
16.         In cases of liquidation, FOGADE assumes depositors' claims on the
proceeds of liquidation to the extent of deposit payoffs. The proposed revised
Law should specify that FOGADE's resulting claims will have the same priorit;
as other Government claims.
E. 1n nE.InE
17.         The Treasury should be required to contribute to the fund on the same
basis as commercial banks.  It is suggested that the Government'r contribution
match that of the banking system. On the other hand. FOGADE should not be
allowed to float its own bonds or to take debt from any institution other than
the BCV.
18.         Interest should be paid on any debt owed to the BCV by FOGADE. The
general rediscount rate which applies to any other borrower should be used for
this purpose, as this rate reflects the BCV's opportunity cost of funds. Annual
profits should not necessarily be used to repay debts with BCV. Advances from
BCV will carry a market rate of interest, and hence FOGADE should decide on its
own whether to pre-pay any debts with BCV.
19.         FOGADE should be able to manage its own funds. The requirement to
hold liquid resources at the BCV should be lifted. Instead, the Law should
restrict FOGAJE's investments to domestic or foreign Government securities.
F. Accounting Standards and Control Functiona
20.         FOGADE should be required to report losses on the same basis as any
other financial institutions. Accordingly, the provision allowing FOGADE to
disguise losses as deferred charges should be eliminated, and replaced with the
requirement thait FOGADE's accounts be prepared using the standards of the SBIF
(including regulations on provisioning, rollovers, accrual of interest,
revaluation of foreign currency accounts, etc.). Also, FOGADE should be required
by Law to be audited externally every six months under the same norms as for any
other financial institution.
21.         Regular assessments, whether from the Government or banks, should
not be booked as capital. The requirement that proceeds from bank assessments
be used only to pay-off deposits on liquidated banks should be lifted.
22.         FOGADE will inform periodically to the Ministry of Finance and to
the SBIF in its capacity as inspector of FOGADE, about its operations and
financial condition.
II. FOGADE's Financial Position
23.         Table 1 shows the balance sheet of FOGADE as of end-1989.  There
are several noteworthy aspects of the balance sheet. First, all assets under



- 92 -ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 5 pages
management/sale are booked at purchase price, which in turn was determined on
the basis of their book values in the institution they were purchased from
(either financially assisted institutions or the BCV). There is no estimate of
the market value of these assets, but their nature (including Bs. 4.8 billion
in loan portfolios and Bs. 3.2 billion in receivables) suggest that the value
of these assets is over-represented in the balance sheet. These assets are only
provisioned against in the amount of 6% of their value. Second, credits provided
by FOGADE under assistance programs are not provisioned against, despite the fact
that these have been given precisely to institutions in a weak financial
position.
Table 1: Audited Balance Sheet of FOGADE
(as of Decemler 31, 1989, in Bs. billion)
ASSETS:                                                                  17.98
Short-term/liquid assets                                         4.54
Credits issued under assistance programs                         3.09
Assett* under management/sale W                                  9.74
assets purchased under assistance programs          1.33
assets received in payment                          3.68
assets transsferred from the BCV                    5.33
Less: provisions and special reserve               0.6
Claims on institutions under liquidation
from payment of guaranteed deposits                         0.02
Fixed assets                                                     0.21
Other assets                                                     0.3
LIABILITIES:                                                             13.17
Short-term liabilities                                          0.14
Debts with BCV                                                           U.44
Short-term                                        0.03
Advances                                           5.83
Debt associated with transferred assets            58
Other Liabilities                                                1.59
EQUITY & RESERVES:                                                        4.80
^/ The breakdown of assets under management/sale is:
Stocks & bonds                                         0.78
Receivables                                            3.16
Land, buildings & equipment                            1.56
Loan portfolios                                        4.79
Other                                                  0.05
Total                                               10.34
24.         These factors suggest that a precise determination of the net worth
of FOGADE is not possible at this point. Under this loan, studies will be
commissioned to determine the market value of the Bs. 10.34 billion in assets
under management/sale and the Bs.  3.09 billion in credits to financial
institutions. The valuation should be performed under the principles established



- 93 -                 ARN    VnlD
Page 5 of 5 pages
by the SBIF. Together, these assets amount to 70* of FOGADE's assets, or 270%
of its not worth.
25.         Finally, it should be noted that FOGADE's debt with the BCV amounts
to Bs. 11.4 billion (equivalent to US$265 million) as of end-1989.



-94 -                   AEM Z LI
Page 1 of 5 pages
VENEZUEIA - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
PROGRAM FOR THE ELIMINArION OF MANAGED PORTFOLIOS AT THE BCV
I. Status of the Managed Portfolios
1.          BCV manages a set of portfolios under management contracts mostly
with Government institutions. The conposition of these portfolios is detailed
in Table 1.
2.          The total value of these portfolios amounts to Bs. 40 billion
(equivalent to US$930 million), and the annual weighted average return is equal
to 17%. The return is very low as compared to current inflation levels (36%
annual rate for the second semester of 1989) or deposit rates in the banking
system (around 35% for time deposits), which implies a significant
decapitalization of the portfolios. This situation arises because the portfolios
contain low-interest instruments purchased at face value. In most contracts,
there is an agreement with the BCV for re-sale of the instruments to the BCV at
the original purchase price, which means that in case of divestment capital
losses would be borne by the BCV.
II. Cost of Disinvestment of Portfolios
3.          It is hard to estimate the magnitude of the losses that will be
incurred in the process of disinvestment of the portfolios because mawy of the
private instruments (particularly those of mortgage banks and S&Ls) are not
traded due to their poor grade. As a rough estimate, one can assume that the
market price of all instruments would be that which would produce a yield
equivalent to that on BCV zero-coupon bills, which currently stands at 36%. This
measure is likely to underestimate the size of the losses because it does not
take into account differences in credit risk between BCV bills and the private
instruments held by the portfolios. In addition, it assumes that the current
interest rate structure would prevail in the future. Using this procedure, the
capital losses would be as indicated in Table 2. The cost of disengagement of
all portfolios except FICAM would amount to Bs. 13 billion (equivalent to US$300
million).



95 -                    ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 5 pages
Table 1: COMPOSITION OF PORTFOLIOS ADMINISTERED BY THE BCV
BY TYPE OF INSTRUMENT AS OF JANUARY 31, 1990
(Nominal Value of Investment in Bs. Billion and
Weighted Average Return of Local Currency Investments)
Ivss!I       FICANbI      FOGADE-I  PENS. BCV    Other4'
Total
Amt.  Rate  Amt.  Rate Amt. Rate  Amt. Rate  Amt. Rate   Amt.
Public
Instruments    10.96  23Z 15.80  16X  1.94  152  0.29  402  0.01  132  29.00
-Treasury
Bonds-/       9.66  252  13.32  192  1.94  152  0.05  252  0.01  13Z 24.89
-Housin8
Bondsx1       1.30   92   0.36  112      -          -    -  1.66
-For. Curr.
Bonds            -        2.11   na      -          -          -        2.11
-BCV Blalsal       -           -           -       0.24  432     -        0.24
Private
Instrumsnts     6.79   72   0.82  372  2.66  102  0.21  342  0.10  362  10.58
-Conmercial
Banks            -           -           -       0.21  342  0.09  372   0.30
-Mortgage
Banks         3.87   72   0.17   72  2.66  102      -       0.00   92   6.70
-Finance
Companies     0.06  112      -           -          -       0.00   92   0.06
-Savings &
Loans         2.87   7S      -           -          -          -        2.87
-Other-/           -        0.65  45S      -          -          -        0.65
Total       17.75  17X  16.62  21S  4.60  122  0.49  382  0.11  33Z  39.57
Source:  Departamento de Fideicomisos, BCV.
a/ Pension fund of Social Security System; does not include other IVSS funds
not maintained at the BCV.
b/ FICAM holds the insurance premia paid by enterprises on exchange rate
guarantees issued by the BCV.  FICAM wi:l be used to compensate the BCV for
any losses it will have incurred as a result of the exchange rate guarantee
program.
cl Temporary investment portfolio of FOGADE, as of December 31, 1989, prior to
the creation of the new fideicomiso.
dl The  more  active  portfolios  are:  Trabajadores  Petroleros,  Fundaci6n
Bicentenario de Sim6n Bolivar, and FOGADE's Fondo Especial para la Vivienda.
The less active portfolios are: Prestaciones Sociales del Sector P1blico, and
Corporaci6n Venezolana de Guayana. PDVSA's portfolio currently holds no
funds.
el Treasury bonds issued after April 1.39 have a variable rate; the rate used
here is the one effective on January 31, 1990.
fl Bonds of FONDUR and MINDUR.
£/ BCV bonds are valued at the discounted price offered in the market.
Therefore, the interest rate quoted is the effective yield.
h_ Pagares of Elecricidad de Caracas.



- 96 -                 AM    x
Page 3 of 5 pages
Table 2:  NOMINAL VS. MARKET VALUE OF ADMINISTERED PORTFOLIOS
(As of January 31, 1990, in Bs. Billion)
Nominal    Current     Market ValueW       Capital Loss
Value      Return  (assuming 36% yield)   (difference)
iVSS                    17.75        17%             d.38              9.37
FICAM                   16.62        21%             9.70              6.93
FOCADE                   4.60        12%             1.53              3.07
PENSIONS BCV             0.49        38%             0.52             -0.03W
OTHER                    0.11        33%             0.10              0.01
TOTAL
incl. FICAM        39.57        17%            18.69             20.88
excl. FICAM        22.95        16%            10.20             12.75
Al'   Calculated as: (nominal value)*(current return)/(market yield), where the
market yield is taken to be the current yield on BCV bills of 36%.
hI    Capital gain is due to the drop in the BCV bill yield after January 31,
1990.
4.          This stock loss can be absorbed in three ways:
(a)  By the entities holdin the managed portfolios themselves.  The BCV
would purchase the investments from the portfolios at their market
value of Bs. 10 billion.   The BCV wou1.d then own a stock of
instruments effectively yielding a market rate (36%, or the same as
its own bills), and hence would not be subjected to losses as long
as interest rates don't change. As was said before, this option may
not be possible because of contractual obligations of the BCV. Even
if it were possible, the Government should cover the cost of the
policy it itself imposed by forcing purchases of instruments at face
value.    Otherwise,  the  respective  funds  would  be  severely
decapitalized.
(b)   By the Central Ban.  The BCV could absorb the stock loss and
transform it into annual flow losses in two ways. One alternative
would be for the BCV to purchase the entire volume of instruments
held by the portfolios at their nominal value of Bs. 23 billion.
To sterilize this, it would need to issue an equivalent amount of
BCV bills on which it currently pays 36%. However, the BCV would
derive only a 16% return from the instruments purchased from the
portfolios. Assuming that these rates prevail in the future, the
annual flow loss to the BCV would be given by the interest rate
differential, or Bs. 4.6 billion (36%-16% times 23 billion, or US$175
million). Alternatively, the portfolios could retain the stock of
investments they currently hold, and the BCV could complement this
with a Bs. 13 billion contribution to the portfolios so as to
increase their market value to Is. 23 billion. This contribution
would need to be sterilized with a Bs. 13 billion issue of BCV bills.
Then the annual flow loss of the BCV is given by the interest



- 97          -lq    IXl
Page 4 of 5 pages
payments on those bills, or Bs. 4.6 billion (36% of 13 billion).
In either case, the flow losses of Bs. 4.6 billion are the same, and
discounting them at 36% gives the original stock loss of Bs. 13
billion. Having the BCV absorb the losses through either of these
mechanism is not an acceptable option because it involves large
Pinual quasi-fiscal losses for the BCV.
(c)   By the National TreUggo=. The Treasury could cover the losses with
a direct budgetary appropriation. The portfolios would retain their
entire investments, and the Treasury would give them a Bs. 13 billion
supplement (either in the form of cash or Treasury instruments) so
as to increase the market value of the portfolios to Bs. 23 billion.
The annual cost of servicing the T-bills will depend on the rate at
which they are floated, but should in principle be equivalent to the
cost calculated previously for the BCV. However, this would be the
cleanest option in so far as it would not undermine the financial
position of the BCV.
5.          This analysis has assumed that all portfolios (with the exception
of FICAII) will be disengaged at the same time. However, in practice this will
be done in a staggered fashion according to the plar prepared by the Government.
MII. Proaram for DivestMent of Portfolios from BCV
6.          The program to disengage all portfolios from the BCY (except for
FICAN) should be prepared according to the following guidelines. The program
should cover all portfolios with current management contracts, even if no
activity has been registered in recent times, and whether or not there is a
formal fidelcomiso. It should include all portfolios managed by any department
at the BCV including the DeDartamento de Fideicomisos.
7.          For each managed portfolio, the following information will be made
available for Bank review and approval:
(a)  A mention of any law or decree requiring that the funds be placed
at the BCV.  If divestment of the portfolios does require legal
changes, the program should suggest a schedule for the modification
of the corresponding laws or decrees.
(b)   The terms of the management contract, highlighting: (i) the amount
of advance notice required for cancellation of the management
contract; and (ii) any contractual obligation regarding the
repurchase price on instruments held by the portfolio. The BCV will
present a schedule detailing the date of notification of cancellation
as well as the date of effective cancellation of the management
contract.
(c) A brief letter from the owner of the funds commenting on the
divestment schedule prepared by the BCV and explaining the plans for
the management of the resources.
(d)  A detailed list of investments in the portfolio, detailing the
nature, volume of investment, and interest rate on each type of
instrument.



-98 -                   AM  IL
Page 5 of 5 pages
(e)   An estimation of the value of the portfolio according to three
valuation criteria: (i) nominal value, (li) original purchase price,
and (iII) market value. Where no market price exists, the price will
be determined as being that which yields an effective return
equivalent to that on similar marketable instruments. From these
figures, the program will contain an estimate of the losses to be
absorbed by the BCV if instruments were sold at the original purchase
price rather than at market price.
8.          In addition, the program should specify how the Government plans to
absorb the losses that will arise from the divestment program. In particular,
the Government will need to propose: (i) whether the portfolios themselves or
the BCV will keep the instruments currently held by the portfolios; and (ii) the
share of losses to be absorbed by the Treasury and by the BCV.



99 -                 AM  
Page 1 of 2 pages
VENEZUELA - ;NANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
STATUS OF UAN  GROUP OPERATIONS Is VENEZUELA
A. Statement of World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of December 31. 1989
(In US$ Killion)
Amount
(less cancellation)
Fiscal                               Undis-
Loan or credit number      year  Borrower    Purv%qe    Bank bursed   Total
13 loans fully disbursed
& closed                                                 342.2           342.2
3091                       1989  Government Structural   80.0  322.0   402.2
adjustment
3092                       1989  Government Trade         35.0  318.0    !53.0
policy
Total                                                 457.2  640.0  1.097.2
Of which has been
repaid                                             314.7
Amount sold                                             27.5
Of which has been
repaid                                              2,.5
Total now outstanding                                 115.0
Total now held by
Bank & IDA                                          115.0
Total undisbursed                                             640.0    640.Q



- 100 -
Page 2 of 2 pages
B. Statsment of IFG Investments as of December 31. 1989
(In US$ million)
Date        Borrower           Type of businesA            Loan  Equity  Total
1964,1968,  CAVENDAS   Development finance                 17.50  1.34   18.84
1971
1971        CONCECA    Cement & construction material       2.01      *   2.01
1961        DIABLITOS  Food & food processing               0.5V      -   0.50
1966,1972   DOMINGUEZ  Tin cans                             1.00  0.52    1.52
1989        OPCO       Iron & steel                        73.13      -   73.13
1989        PROPILVEN  Chemicals, petrochemicals           47.00      -  47.00
1969,1973   PROTINAL   Food & food processing               5.06      -    5.1:6
1960,1964   SIVENSA    Iron & steel                         2.70  0.44    3.14
1975        SOFIMECA   Money & capital markets                 - 0.70    0.70
1975        VALIVENCA Money & capital markets                   - 0.35    0.35
1988        VENCEKOS   Cement & construction materialy    1QL         -   lO,OQ
Total gross commitment                               158.90  3.35  162.25
Less cancellations, terminations & sales            71.49  3.35   74.84
Total commitments now held by IFC                     87.41      -   87.41
Total undisbursed                                     35.26      -  35.26
a/ In addition, IFC provided a guarantee of a local bond issue for
US$10.3 million equivalent.



6>        >1         ~~~~~~~~~IBRD 7 
1, ARUA                C s er              S                                              A  I r c r
12J>  -                     tnnHt                                                                          A  f
eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,, <          S    '  
VENEZUELA                C     :,-    . -  X                ,;, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'tjY r'RT   :   RI1,10AD
_  Major Roods           '               - ~~~~~~~~~~~-9-  - 4,   i    1                                   ,  .. - .cu  -  T-ld
ow                                                                                                                            To,erbd Cities and Tobrns  \ =  - ~ - -  .  '  . G
SoerFdrlTrioyBudre       t2-  VENEZUELA <
---lnevations:Budre                           X                         }a.7<
C.' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -
{ ~ ~     ~ ~~                                                         --1OOMI    <s_/<5k
tlLCERS (yo B R A Z 0                                        /      \      J3        ^~@    f    '>0
72o' oo6 r t  RoodsI 
EL~~~~VA~~~~v    <n"   -.    GUY~~~~~~~~ST UANA'
\_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' '    _                                   -,\  
R ~O   Oivlelds                                                                                  AR"         ST,     BARDAWA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA
'B  State or Federal Territory Capitols                                                            iID,A-.BG
2- ~ ~~*Naiona,,.l Capitals                                        2N  )"
___Stote or FederallTerritory Boundorier.                                                           'I~    VENEZUELA
Internafional Boundar'ies                                             )~--¶
4.                ~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA  SI
C  __                              1...'      BRAZIL           N              r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAI
7?1  7P'                                  6f            ECUADOR                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH I



