Report No. 932a-BR                                                  FILE  COPY
Brazil
Appraisal of a
Development Banking Project
January 28, 1976
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Cruzeiro
Exchange Rates January 21. 1976!/
US$1.00             =Cr$9.245
US$1 million        =        Cr$9,245,000
Cr$1 million        =        US$108,166
This report uses the rate of Cr$7.40 = US$1.00 for year-end 1974
data and Cr$8.00 = US$1.00 for all other conversions.
1/ Cruzeiro selling rate. The cruzeiro is subject to frequent mini-
devaluations.
Average Exchange Rates (selling)
1973             1974
US$1.00                     Cr$6,126          Cr$6,794
US$1 million        =       Cr$6,126,000      Cr$6,794,000
Cr$1 million        =       US$163,239        US$147,188
ACRONYMS
ABDE    -    Brazilian Association of Development Banks
APA     -    BNDE's Area of Operations with Agents
BNDE    -    National Bank for Economic Development
CEBRAE  -    Brazilian Center for Managerial Assistance to Small- and
Medium-Scale Enterprises
FINAME  -    BNDE Subsidiary for Financing Equipment and Machinery
FIPEME  -    BNDE Program for Financing SMIs (being phased out)
POC     -    BNDE's Joint Operations Program (with Agents)
SDBs    -    State and Regional Development Banks
SMIs    -    Small- and Medium-Enterprises



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF A DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY ...................................................    i
I.    INTRODUCTION ..............................................
II.    ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR.                      1
General    , ....1
Government Policies in the Industrial Sector.                     3
Manufacturing Exports          ..                                 4
Import Substitution. .                                            5
Reorganization of Traditional Consumer Goods Industry,            5
Geographical Dispersion of Industrial Activity,,,.,,             6
Strengthening of Small- and Medium-Industries.         .          6
The Financial Sector          ..                                  7
Financing Problems of Small- and Medium-Industry                  8
The Role of the State Development Banks (SDBs)    .              10
Financing Very Small Industry               .        .10
Interest Rates and Indexing                ..                    11
Coordination of Industrial Lending             ..11
III.    THE NATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (BNDE) . .12
A. BNDE's Organization and Procedures .12
Ownership and Objectives ..............................        12
Administrative Council, Management and Staff .14
Organization, Operating Policies and Practices .15
B. BNDE's Area of Operations with Agents (APA)  .        .15
APA's Organization, Management and Staff.                      16
APA's Scope and Programs ..............................        16
SDB's Free Limit ................,.................            17
APA's Appraisal .....................................          17
APA's Follow-up.                                               18
Procurement and Disbursement    .            .18
Technical Assistance to SDBs    .            .18
C. BNDE's Resources, Operations and Financial Position              19
Resources   ..19
Operations                       ..    19
Portfolio and Financial Performance           .      .         20
Audit  . .. 22
This report was prepared by Messrs. Frank Lawson and Andre Cracco
following visits to Brazil in April/May 1975 and July/August 1975.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                                          Page No.
IV.    THE STATE AND REGIONAL DEVELOPNENT BANKS         . . .            22
A. Organization ............................................      22
Establishment and Objectives            .        .           22
Ownership .............................................      23
Relations with State Governments          ..                 23
Policy and Decision Making Councils .     ..................  23
Management and Staff ................................,.      23
B. Operational Procedures and Practices          .      .         24
Appraisal .......................,,.,,............           24
Supervision           ......................                 24
Procurement and Disbursement            .        .           25
Programming and Budgeting ..............................     25
Internal and External Audit ...........................      25
C. Resources            ....................,...                  26
D. Past Operations .........................................      26
E. Financial Position and Results .   ,     .      .......        26
Quality of Portfolio and Provisions for Losses               26
Financial Structure ........................,. ....          27
Profitability          .....................                 27
F. Upgrading the Development Banking System      ,..              28
V.    THE PROJECT ............................      .                   28
A. General Description ......................,.,.,.,.......       28
B. The Proposed Loan ,,,,,,...   28
Onlending Terms .............. ................              28
Ultimate Beneficiaries ..............................        29
Loan Repayment ................................              29
Subloan Approval Procedures    .           .30
Procurement and Disbursement   .           .30
C. Project Benefits and Justification .......................     31
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS       .      ..........     32
List of Annexes
ANNEX 1 - BRAZIL: Foreign Exchange Component of Manufacturing Investment
ANNEX 2  - Manufacturing Growth Rates, 1969-74 and Manufacturing Exports,
1970-74
ANNEX 3  -  CEBRAE and Technical Assistance to Small- and Medium-Scale Indus-
tries (SMIs)
ANNEX 4  - Wages and Gross Value Added per Employee According to Size of
Firm (1959 and 1970)
ANNEX 5  -  BNDE's Subsidiaries
ANNEX 6  - Variation of Gross Financial Savings, 1969-74



- iii -
List of Annexes (continued)
ANNEX  7  - Maximum Authorized Interest Rates on Selected Transactions -
December 1974; and Average Yearly Yield of Selected
Securities (1970-1974)
ANNEX  8  -  Loans Outstanding to the Private Sector by Ultimate Lenders
in the Financial System, 1972-74 and Principal Financial
Assets Held by the Public
ANNEX  9  -  Interest Rates and Indexation
ANNEX 10  -  BNDE's FIPEME Program for SMIs
ANNEX 11  -  BNDE's Summary Organization Chart
ANNEX 12  -  BNDE:  Higher Management
ANNEX 13  -  BNDE:  Staffing Situation
ANNEX 14  -  Principal Characteristics of BNDE's Joint Operations Program (POC)
ANNEX 15  -  BNDE:  Domestic Borrowings as of December 31, 1974
ANNEX 16  -  BNDE:  Foreign Currency Borrowings as of December 31, 1974
ANNEX 17  -  BNDE:  Operations According to Subprograms - Actual 1974 -
Forecast 1975
ANNEX 18  - BNDE and FINANE:  Sectoral and Regional Distribution of Loans
Approved - 1969-74
ANNEX 19  -  BNDE and Subsidiaries:  Summary and Operations - Loans and Equity
Participations Approved According to Programs and Funds
ANNEX 20  -  BNDE:  Total Onlending Approved to Development, Mixed and
Investment Banks, 1972-74
ANNEX 21  -  BNDE:  Actual (1972-74) and Preliminary Forecasts (1975-78) of
Overall Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
ANNEX 22  - BNDE:  Area of Operations with Agents - Onlending to Development
and Investment Banks: Approvals, Commitments and Disburse-
ments - Actual (1972-74) Forecasts (1975-78)
ANNEX 23  -  BNDE:  Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1974
ANNEX 24  -  BNDE:  Status of Arrears
ANNEX 25  -  BNDE:  Audited Comparative Balance Sheets, December 31, 1972-74
ANNEX 26  -  BNDE:  Audited Comparative Income Statements, Years ended-
December 31, 1972-74
ANNEX 27  - BNDE:  Funds Flow Statements - CY-1972-74
ANNEX 28  -  BNDE:  Past (1972-74) Financial Ratios
ANNEX 29  -  Development Banks' Operational Policies and Practices
ANNEX 30  -  SDBs' Major Operational and Financial Data, Years 1971 and 1974
ANNEX 31  -  SDBs' Major Operational and Financial Rations, Year-end 1974
ANNEX 32  -  Full-Fledged State Development Banks - Consolidated Balance
Sheets as of December 31, 1971-74
ANNEX 33  -  Regional Development Banks - Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 1971-74
ANNEX 34  - Mixed State Development Banks - Consolidated Balance Sheets as
of December 31, 1971-74
ANNEX 35  -  Full-Fledged State and Regional Development Banks - Outstanding
Liabilities from Official Institutions, Governments and
Development Funds at year-end 1974
ANNEX 36  -  Full-Fledged State and Regional Development Banks - Loan Port-
folio at year-end 1974
ANNEX 37  -  Full-Fledged State and Regional Development Banks - Industrial
Loan Portfolio at year-end 1974



- iv -
List of Annexes (continued)
ANNEX 38 - Full-Fledged State and Regional Development Banks - Securities,
Bonds and Equity Investments at year-end 1974
ANNEX 39  - Plan of Action for Upgrading the State and Regional Development
Banking System - Strengthening the Technical Procedures of
BNDE
ANNEX 40  - The Project
ANNEX 41  - Analysis of Project Costs Eligible for Bank Financing
ANNEX 42  -  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to BNDE (Draft)
MAP          Brazil



BRAZIL
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a first project to assist the Banco Nacional
do Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) in its financing program for small- and
medium-scale industries (SMIs). BNDE is a federally owned development bank
and the principal source of industrial term finance in Brazil. Apart from
the proposed US$85 million loan to meet part of the foreign exchange require-
ments of priority industrial projects sponsored by SMIs, the project would
support BNDE's efforts, through specific actions and technical assistance, to
upgrade the operational effectiveness of Brazil's 22 state and regional devel-
opment banks (SDBs) which are the principal source of long-term credit to
SMIs and through which the loan would be channeled.
ii.       While the Brazilian manufacturing sector has led the growth of the
economy by increasing its output at an average of 12.6% p.a. during the last
seven years and while manufacturing exports increased from US$535 million in
1970 to US$2.6 billion in 1974, this expansion has been uneven; some subsectors
in which smaller and more labor-intensive industries are predominant have
expanded at a slower pace. Moreover, industries located in the southern part
of the country still account for 90% of Brazil's manufacturing value added
and 86% of employment. Although smaller industries have increased their share
in Brazil's manufacturing output in recent years, about 600 large industrial
firms (less than 1% of the total) still account for 27% of Brazil's manufac-
turing value added and 22% of employment.
iii.      In the past, financial support to SMIs has been limited.  Small-
enterprises have traditionally encountered difficulty in obtaining long-term
finance on adequate terms, either from domestic or foreign sources. Because
of the overall limited availability of industrial credit, financial interme-
diaries have preferred to finance larger firms and projects which involve
lower risk and administrative costs. On the other hand, investigations show
that support to SMIs is socially desirable since industrial plants of up to
250 workers display a greater labor absorption per unit of capital than larger
ones. Aware of this situation and of the potential SMIs have in helping decen-
tralize industrial activity, of developing local industries and resources and
of improving income distribution through a greater employment effect, the pre-
sent Government and BNDE are determined to provide special support to SMIs.
iv.       To this end BNDE recently reformulated the scope and procedures of
its onlending program to SMIs, substantially increasing the availability of
funds and improving the terms of its lending by providing higher interest
spreads to intermediaries and lower interest rates to final borrowers, dif-
ferentiated according to the needs of different regions. Similarly, the
Government and BNDE are taking steps to strengthen CEBRAE, a special agency
created in 1973 to provide managerial assistance to SMIs.



- ii -
v.        Because of their developmental orientation and geographical coverage,
SDBs can service effectively the special needs and problems of SMIs. Most
SDBs are state-owned institutions created in the late 1960s to assist states
in implementing their economic expansion policies. BNDE was instrumental in
supporting and guiding their development. Eight out of the 22 banks are mixed
banks, i.e., state commercial banks with a development portfolio, while the
others are full-fledged development banks. The SDBs are financially sound
institutions which have had a substantial operational growth: their loan and
equity portfolio increased in real terms by 145% between 1971-74. The SDB
system now accounts for about 5% of all loans outstanding to the Brazilian
private sector, nearly half of which are loans to SMIs.
vi.       There is considerable variance in the quality of the SDBs' management
and staff, in their project appraisal capability and in the soundness of their
institutional and operational arrangements. While larger banks show an adequate
performance, most of the smaller ones in the least developed states require
upgrading. Through a Plan of Action directed to strengthening these institutions,
the project would serve as a catalyst in remedying the SDBs' most immediate
inadequacies. The Plan of Action to be implemented by BNDE would call for
improvements in the SDBs' appraisal work by introducing economic analysis of
subprojects, for widening the scope of their supervision work and for improving
SDBs' planning and financial management, including their reporting to BNDE.
vii.      Because of BNDE's familiarity with SDBs' operations, procedures and
problems, and as their principal provider of resources, BNDE is ideally situated
to influence their performance. Moreover, in the next few years BNDE expects
to channel about one quarter of its lending through intermediaries, compared
to the present 15%,and to strenghten the SDBs' equity through special loans
to state governments. This should provide the special unit of BNDE that deals
with intermediaries the necessary leverage to critically follow up and assist
SDBs in their upgrading work.
viii.     Created in 1952, and with commitments of about US$2.5 billion equi-
valent in 1974, BNDE is the most important Brazilian agency assisting industrial
development. It has played a central role in the promotion and financing of
key basic industries and in the financing of major public infrastructure
investments. More recently, BNDE has been devoting, together with its four
financing and-investment subsidiaries, increased support to private manufacturing
industry (73% of its lending in 1974), and to SMIs (5% of its lending). BNDE
is a mature and effective institution with a dedicated and experienced cadre
of professionals. Although a public corporation working within the framework
of Government policy, its President and very able manager has considerable
flexibility in conducting operations. BNDE is a profitable and financially
sound institution, with a low 1.16:1 debt/equity ratio; overall, it is a
creditworthy borrower in a position to implement the project.
ix.       With the threefold  real increase in operations between 1972-74 which
are forecast to increase another one and a half times by 1978, BNDE is undergoing



- iii -
structural changes. To ensure that BNDE has the appropriate capacity to
control the allocative process through SDBs and to assist BNDE in its efforts
to improve the operational standards and appraisal methods of SDBs, the
project implementation would be assisted by development banking special-
ists who would advise BNDE's department in charge of financial intermediaries
in the preparation and implementation of the measures to improve the develop-
ment banking system.
x.    -   The loan would be made to the Government of Brazil, which would
make its proceeds available to BNDE under the same financial terms and condi-
tions for (i) financing through SDBs the foreign exchange component of invest-
ment projects carried out by SMIs (i.e., industries with up to about US$7.5
million equivalent of fixed assets after subproject implementation); and (ii)
covering the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance to its department
in charge of financial intermediaries. BNDE would carry the foreign exchange
risk between the currencies disbursed by the Bank and the cruzeiro. Subloans
would be denominated in cruzeiros and would carry regionally differentiated
interest rates of three to six per cent p.a., plus monetary correction of
principal to take into account the effect of inflation. The loan would finan-
ce, over a period of around two years, about 14% of total project costs
(US$600 million equivalent) i.e., the equivalent of 47% of the estimated
foreign exchange component of some 250 industrial subprojects.
xi.       Because of the administrative complexities arising from the projected
large number of subloan accounts and the potential participation of 22 banks
and two intermediary levels between the Bank and ultimate beneficiaries, the
use of a composite amortization schedule would be impractical. The proposed
loan would, therefore, have a fixed twelve-year maturity including a three-year
grace period. Bank funds would finance 100% of the cost of imported machinery
and equipment and part of the indirect foreign exchange costs of subprojects,
namely, 20% of BNDE's disbursements.
xii.      The project would have significant benefits and is well timed.  It
would support BNDE's efforts to upgrade the capabilities of SDBs to allocate
funds economically and follow up these investments effectively, at a time when
BNDE is decentralizing its operations; it would, together with the proposed
technical assistance, help to strengthen BNDE's own capabilities to deal with
these matters effectively. Besides supporting BNDE's institution building
effort, the project would assist a segment of industry which traditionally
has been hindered by difficult access to term financing. With the majority
of subprojects expected for expansion, ultimate beneficiaries would be given
the opportunity to carry out needed capital investments to improve production
facilities and increase productivity. With SMIls requiring less investment
per job than larger industries, the project's expected employment benefits
would be sizeable and should assist in improving income distribution and
alleviating urban poverty. Additionally, the project would help to improve
and deepen the process of financial intermediation and decentralize economic
activity.
xiii.     With the assurances listed in Chapter VI, obtained during negotia-
tions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$85 million to the
Government of Brazil to be passed on to BNDE.






BRAZIL
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE), a Government-
owned development bank, has applied for a Bank loan to finance part of the
foreign exchange component of its small and medium scale industry (SMI) on-
lending programs through state and regional development banks (SDBs). Since
its establishment in 1952, BNDE has been active in promoting and fostering
economic development and has become the country's most important institutional
source of industrial financing and the principal development agency of the
federal government.
1.02      The proposed US$85 million loan would be the Bank's first DFC opera-
tion to Brazil since 1970 when a US$25 million credit line was extended to
the Banco do Nordeste do Brazil (BNB). It would be made to the Government
and would be passed on to BNDE for onlending to SMI through the nationwide
state and regional development banking system. Its principal objectives
would be to:
(a) assist BNDE in strengthening its capability for dealing
with SDBs:
(b) help upgrade the development banking system by improving
its resource allocation ability and institutional arrange-
ments; and
(c) assist the Government's industrial development efforts by
providing adequate term financing for the establishment,
expansion, and modernization of SMIs.
1.03      This report focuses on Brazil's industrial and development banking
sectors, in particular as they relate to SMIs, and assesses the appropriate-
ness of channeling Bank funds through BNDE. It was prepared by Messrs. P.
Lawson and A. Cracco, following their missions to Brazil in April/May and
July/August 1975.
II. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
General
2.01      Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of the Brazilian
economy in the last seven years. During the period 1967 to 1974, real industrial
output increased at an average annual rate of 12.3%, while the country's gross
domestic product (GDP) grew at a rate of 10%. The increase in the production



- 2 -
of the industrial sector accounted for 35% of the total increase in GDP, and
its share of GDP has increased from 27% in 1967 to 33% in 1974. Employment
in industry increased at an annual rate of 5.9% during the 1960s, as the
proportion of the labor force employed by industry increased from 13.1% in
1960 to 17.8% in 1970, with this trend continuing during the 1970s. About
72% of the country's industrial product is generated by the manufacturing
subsector, followed by construction (20%), and mining (2%). The favorable
investment climate led also to a considerable growth of direct foreign
investments, which amounted to US$999 million in 1974, compared to an annual
average of US$270 million during the period 1967-73.
2.02      The expansion of the manufacturing sector in Brazil has been accom-
panied by significant reduction in tariff protection. According to a recent
study 1/ the average effective protection afforded to manufacturing industries
has decreased from 181% in 1966 to 76% in 1967 and 47% in 1973. This expansion,
however, was characterized by a substantial growth of sophisticated consumer
durable and capital goods production, especially transport equipment and
household appliances. The initial impetus for this was the opportunity to
supply consumer durable goods to a large domestic market well defined by the
early pattern of Brazilian imports. In recent years, however, consumer durable
goods production has expanded well beyond the limits demarcated by earlier
demand for imports. From about 170,000 units in 1968, production of motor
vehicles increased to 690,000 units in 1972 and to 858,000 units in 1974,
placing Brazil among the ten largest vehicle manufacturers in the world.
Following the utilization of excess manufacturing capacity prevailing in the
late 1960s, the substantial expansion of automobile production as well as
other consumer durables proved to be very import intensive in relation to its
inputs, thus contributing to the recent balance of payment problems. The
Government is now taking measures, such as credit restraints, to slow down
the expansion of consumer durables relative to capital and intermediate goods.
Capital goods production, although still a lagging sub sector, has accelerated,
with annual increases exceeding 20% in 1971-73. The relative share of domestic
equipment in industrial investment now stands at about 75%, compared to less
than 70% in the late 1960s.  Imports of machinery and equipment, however, are
still substantial (US$2.6 billion in 1974) accounting for about 20% of Brazil's
overall imports.  Including indirect foreign exchange cost, the total foreign
exchange component of new industrial investment is estimated at 40% of total
costs (Annex 1).  The measures being undertaken by the Government to stimulate
import substitution of capital goods are described in para. 2.09.  During 1967
to 1974, consumer durables and capital goods production increased at an annual
average rate of 18%, and now they account for about 28% of total manufacturing
production, compared to 19.6% in 1967.
1/   The Manufacturing Export Expansion and Industrialization in Brazil,
William G. Tyler, 1974 (book to be published).



- 3 -
2.03      Since i, intermediate goods have constituted the second most
dynamic component of the manufacturing industry with production increasing at
an average rate of 12.2% per year, in line with the manufacturing sector as
a whole. The share of intermediate goods in total manufacturing output has
remained at about 42%. Increased production of these goods, however, has not
been sufficient to cope with the growth in domestic demand and imports are
still significant, reaching US$5.0 billion in 1974, excluding petroleum, or
40% of total imports. There is, therefore, substantial opportunity for
import substitution in this subsector of the industry. In the case of petro-
chemicals, fertilizers and copper, Brazil is only just now establishing large-
scale domestic production capacity. In the case of both flat and non-flat
steel products, up to now demand growth has outstripped ongoing expansion
programs.
2.04      Throughout the last decade, the traditional consumer goods industries
(textiles, clothing, and food products) have been the slowest growing industrial
subsector. Some dynamism was achieved by this group in very recent years largely
by virtue of its export performance. However, its share in manufacturing output
declined from 36.2% in 1967 to 28.4% in 1974. Established well before 1950,
these industries are characterized by high levels of tariff protection, by lack
of specialization, by obsolescence of equipment, by poorly organized access to
raw materials, and in general, by inefficiency. Measures to assist in correcting
this situation are described in para. 2.11.
Government Policies in the Industrial Sector
2.05      Since the mid-1960s, the Brazilian Government has made a major
effort to accelerate the pace of industrialization of the country. The main
goal of the official policy has been to stimulate the development of an
industrial sector, based on modern technology, that would ultimately be com-
petitive internationally and would help to alleviate the balance of payment
constraints to the country's economic growth. Over the last decade, the
Government has sought to achieve the following objectives:
(i) increase of manufactured exports both to diversify
and expand total exports and to increase the scale and
efficiency of domestic industry;
(ii) substitution of manufactured imports in both the inter-
mediate and capital goods categories;
(iii) reorganization and reequipment of the traditional indus-
trial subsectors so as to reduce their costs and maintain
employment opportunities;
(iv) geographical dispersion of industrial activity so as to
achieve a more equitable inter-regional distribution of
employment opportunities; and



- 4 -
(v) strengthening of small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises.
2.06      Great progress has been made in achieving the first objective
(increase of manufactured exports). On the other hand, substitution of manu-
factured imports, although proceeding at a reasonable pace, is still lagging
behind, especially for intermediate goods (semi-finished metals, chemicals,
fertilizers) and capital goods. The progress in reorganization of the tradi-
tional sector and geographical dispersion of industry has been limited.
Similarly, the objective of strengthening small and medium industries is only
now receiving increased importance. A discussion of the evolution of the
above-mentioned Government industrial sector objectives, and the additional
measures currently being contemplated is contained in the paragraphs below.
Manufacturing Exports
2.07      During the last four years Brazilian manufactured exports increased
substantially at an annual rate of 48%, from US$535 million in 1970 to US$2.6
billion in 1974. In this latter year manufactured exports accounted for 28%
of merchandise exports (Annex 2). Growth was accompanied by diversification
into such non-traditional exports as chemicals, plastics, transport equipment
and mechanical and metallurgical products. Although manufactured exports
account for only about 4% of industrial production, they have had a central
role in developing economies of scale in some industries and in improving
quality and technology. These achievements were primarily induced by a gamut
of fiscal incentives, including tax rebates, a flexible ("crawling peg")
exchange rate policy and favorable world market conditions. However, it is
also evident that Brazilian industry has become increasingly efficient and
competitive. The prospects of further expansion of manufactured exports are
reasonably good mostly since in no case do they constitute more than 3% of
the total manufactured imports in any market, nor do they consist significantly
of products,such as textiles and shoes,presently eliciting protectionist
reactions.
2.08      Fiscal incentives for exports have included exemption from domestic
indirect taxation (including drawbacks of tariffs on imported inputs used in
export production), concession of tax credits calculated as a fixed percentage
of the value of goods exported up to a maximum of 30%, exemption from income
taxation on profits from export sales and concession of working capital
credits at subsidized interest rates. In general, on the basis of before-tax
ex-factory prices the incentive system has probably accorded an average price
advantage to Brazilian exporters on the order of 15 to 20%. Exemption of
manufactured exports from indirect taxation, however, does not constitute
subsidization of exports since it does not price factors below their cost to
the economy. On the other hand, the tax credit, income tax exemption and
subsidized credit elements of the incentive system may not foster inefficiency
in the sector, by international standards, owing to several offsetting factors,
such as the existence in Brazil of an unusually high level of payroll taxation
(exemption from which is not included among the export incentives).



c'
Imort Substitution
2.09      A major component of the Government's development objectives for
the development of the manufacturing sector in Brazil is additional import
substitution in intermediate and capital goods. Opportunities for such sub-
stitution on an economic basis are by no means exhausted in Brazil as indicated
in paras. 2.02 and 2.03. In part, they relate to needed, either ongoing or
planned, expansion of existing production capacity where expansion will not
only substitute for imports but have a beneficial impact on domestic efficiency.
This is the case of ongoing steel industry expansion and of expansion of nitro-
genous fertilizer production. In part, they relate to new activities with
respect to which Brazil has some comparative advantage. This is the case of
the planned mining and processing of Brazil's considerable copper deposits
in Bahia and bauxite deposits in Para. It is also the case of Brazil's
petrochemical poles being installed in Sao Paulo, Bahia and Rio Grande do Sul.
In petrochemicals production, in addition to natural gas, Brazil has another
more important comparative advantage, i.e., the massive size of the domestic
market.
2.10      Perhaps the most pressing need for additional import substitution,
however, is in the domestic capital goods industry, expansion of which has
failed to keep up with total domestic equipment demand (para. 2.02). Expansion
of domestic production of equipment has been hindered by the low level of
tariff protection afforded to such goods, and by the fact that external
credits for the purchase of foreign equipment normally had better terms and
conditions than domestic credits for local equipment. Unlike consumer and
intermediate goods, trade liberalization for capital goods has been continuous
since 1967. Brazil's "Law of Similars" permits such imports to be exempt from
taxation when there is no national similar; national similar being defined
in terms of competitiveness with the price, quality and delivery time of the
import. In recent years this regulation was administered in a very liberal
fashion. However, in recent months, the Government has been applying the
"Law of Similars" more rigidly. It has also directed Government-owned
enterprises to reduce substantially their imports of capital goods.
Reorganization of Traditional Consumer Goods Industry
2.11      As mentioned in para. 2.04, traditional consumer industries have per-
formed very poorly in the last decade, and still remain fairly inefficient.
One of the causes of this is the high level of tariff protection still afforded
to this sector. In 1967, the Government undertook a tariff reform that reduced
by about one half the average protection granted to the manufacturing sector;
since 1967, however, there have been some upward revisions for some traditional
consumer goods, thus increasing slightly average nominal protection from 48%
in 1967 to 57% in 1973.
2.12      At present the main tool used by the Government to improve the effi-
ciency of the old established sectors of industry is BNDE's Special Fund for



- 6 -
the Reorganization and Reequipment of Traditional Industry (FMRI), which was
established in 1970. Although at the beginning the operations of this fund
were not significant, they are now becoming increasingly important. In 1974,
FMRI committed resources amounting to US$200 million, which represented an
increase of 100% over the previous year. In addition to this fund, the
Government is providing assistance for the improvement of traditional industry
through the agricultural processing components of the export corridors program,
the Northeast development program, and the sugar industry reorganization program.
Geographical Dispersion of Industrial Activity
2.13      In 1970, about 60% of total manufacturing value added was produced
in the State of Sao Paulo, 17% in the new State of Rio de Janeiro 1/, and 6% in
the State of Minas Gerais. In order to induce geographical decentralization
of industry, in the early 1960s the Government established the Northeast
industrialization program, which was based on generous tax exemptions, sub-
sidies, and investment incentives. These measures, although they have probably
prevented a widening of the gap between the Northeast and the South, have not
been sufficient to change the pattern of geographical distribution of produc-
tion. The Government, therefore, through BNDE and the regional and state
development banks, is now making renewed efforts to achieve industrial decen-
tralization by devoting an increasing share of BNDE's industrial lending to
the least developed regions. The Government efforts in this matter will be
supported by the proposed loan to BNDE. In order to provide an incentive for
decentralization of industry, BNDE has recently introduced a differentiated
interest rate structure and spreads to intermediaries that favor the less
developed regions of the country. On the other hand, the Government has been
encouraging dispersion by organizing regional growth poles, such as the recent
petrochemical poles of Bahia in the Northeast and of Porto Alegre in the South,
and the state of Sao Paulo "interiorization program".
Strengthening of Small and Medium Industries
2.14      The present Government's national development plan states as one
of its objectives to assist and strengthen SMIs as part of its effort of decen-
tralizing industrial production and increasing employment. In this regard,
steps have been taken to strengthen the Brazilian Center for Managerial
Assistance to Small and Medium Industries (Centro Brasileiro de Assistencia
Gerencial a Pequena e Media Empresa - CEBRAE; Annex 3), and to identify
industries which would particularly deserve support because of their compara-
tive advantage or greater efficiency. To meet the latter objective the Bank
is discussing with CEBRAE the possibility of the Bank helping to design and
implement appropriate research programs.
1/   Includes the city which until recently constituted the State of Guanabara.



- 7 -
2.15      Although the latest available data on size structure of firms come
from the 1970 industrial census (Annex 4) and total industrial output has
grown approximately 60% in real terms since then, the data suggest that small
and medium firms do play an important role in the manufacturing sector. Firms
with less than 250 employees accounted for 62% of manufacturing employment in
1970, compared to 54% in 1959; they also accounted for 55% of manufacturing
value added in 1970, compared to 46% in 1959. Smaller enterprises have thus
managed to increase their share of both employment and value added. The role
of SMIs is particularly prominent in the more traditional labor-intensive
industries, producing items of mass consumption (wood, wood furniture, leather
products, apparel and food).
2.16      With SMIs requiring less capital investment per job than larger
industries, their expansion would have significant employment generation
effects. Investigations of horsepower consumed per unit of labor generally
suggest that firms in the 20 to 250 workers range tend to be more labor-intensive,
at least as measured by the ratio of capital to labor, than either larger or
smaller firms.  These findings are supported by analysis of a sample of pro-
jects recently financed by BNDE, suggesting that SMI enterprises deserve
to be supported. The proposed Bank loan is expected to assist principally
this size of firm.
The Financial Sector
2.19      Brazil's monetary policy is formulated by the National Monetary
Council (CMN) and implemented by the Central Bank of Brazil, which also regu-
lates the country's financial system. In addition to the Central Bank, con-
siderable influence over monetary developments is exercised by the Bank of
Brazil, which is the Federal Government's fiscal agent and by far the nation's
largest comnercial bank, with extensive foreign contacts. On the other hand,
the principal instrument of the Brazil Federal Government for channelling
financial resources for industrial investments is BNDE.
2.18      During the early 1960s, rampant inflation and Government ceilings
on nominal interest rates seriously retarded the development of the financing
sector and made investors reluctant to hold long-term securities, particularly
bonds. During 1964 to 1967, however, the Government established the institu-
tional basis for sustained growth of the financial system. One of the most
important measures was the application of monetary correction to the principal
of long-term financial instruments (i.e. adjustment of principal value propor-
tionate with price level changes). Since 1967, the process of financial
intermediation has broadened and deepened considerably, becoming increasingly
specialized and effective. A system of state-owned development banks emerged
under the leadership of BNDE; a housing finance system was established under
the National Housing Bank (Banco Nacional de Habitacao - BNH) and the National
Savings Bank (Caxa Economica Federal - CEF); and a private investment banking
system emerged under the auspices of private commercial banks and finance



-8-
companies. In addition, there are now a number of other specialized financial
institutions like the National Bank for Cooperative Credit, regional develop-
ment banks (Banco do Nordeste do Brasil - BNB, Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento
do Extremo Sul - BRDE, and Banco de Amazonia - BASA), and FINAME, the subsidiary
of BNDE for financing the purchase of domestic machinery and equipment (Annex
5). The Brazilian capital stock market, on the other hand, has played only a
limited role in the financing of industry. Traditionally it has been narrow
and speculative and over the last three years the value of shares traded in
the Brazilian stock exchange has declined. In 1975, the market has shown-
some signs of recuperation, following the new law that allows foreigners to
invest in the Brazilian stock market through special investment companies.
Annexes 6, 7, and 8 provide an overview of the structure of Brazil's financial
system and the relative importance of the various institutions. BNDE and the
state development banking system are reviewed in more detail in Chapters III
and IV of this report.
Financing Problems of Small and Medium Industry
2.19      Despite rapid expansion of total credit to the private sector in
recent years, availability of long-term capital for smaller firms is still quite
limited. The strong increase of credit to the private sector reflects the com-
bination of rapid economic growth and a broadening and deepening of financial
intermediation from the debilitated base resulting from past endemic inflation.
Since 1969 total financial system credit outstanding to the private sector has
expanded at a rate 56% higher than that of national product and has grown from
32.3% of GDP in 1969 to 52.2% in 1974. Despite the growth of internal credit
there has been a more than fivefold increase in foreign financial credits
outstanding. The rapid expansion of credit has, however, not resulted in a
decline in interest rates which, in some segments of the financial market,
are among the highest in the world (Annex 7). While largely a reflection of
strong demand, this phenomenon is also in part a result of the structure and
governmental control of the financial market, as will be seen below.
2.20      The Brazilian Government seeks to influence production and investment
decisions through the channelling of savings into financial intermediaries and
influencing the allocation of credit by these intermediaries. A large part of
financial savings are either generated by the Government itself, through fiscal
operations (i.e., substantial budget surpluses, reaching US$575 million in
1974), or result from Government programs such as the unemployment insurance
scheme (FGTS), the Social Security system, an endowment and retirement fund
for the private sector (PIS), and a similar plan for the public sector (PASEP).
Part of these savings is then allocated for credit programs according to
governmental priorities. In addition, the Government has some control over
credit allocation by virtue of the fact that some financial intermediaries
which attract voluntary savings are public entities. These include the Bank
of Brazil and the state and federal savings banks. Finally, the Government
establishes interest rate ceilings on both deposits and lending operations
which influence the allocation of private voluntary savings among intermediaries



-9-
and the allocation of credit by sector. Government intervention in financial
intermediation has resulted in an imperfect market for credit which is, there-
fore, not necessarily allocated to sectors where demand is the greatest. For
instance, substantial amounts of financial savings are channelled into subsi-
dized agricultural credit (through the Bank of Brazil and BNB) and into housing
(through the BNH). This seems, essentially, to have restricted the flow of
internal credit to the industrial sector. While, except in the case of small
farmers, there is no evidence of unsatisfied demand for agricultural credit
or housing credit there are indications of excess demand for commercial and
industrial credit.
2.21      The Brazilian Government has followed a policy of permitting domestic
firms and financial intermediaries to borrow funds abroad, either for financing
of fixed or working capital or for onlending on the domestic market. In the
early 1970s, strong demand for industrial and commercial credit, combined with
falling Eurodollar interest rates,led to a situation where cost of foreign
borrowing was substantially below costs of domestic finance. This resulted
in increasingly heavy foreign borrowing by Brazilian firms (in many cases
actually multinational corporations) which were able to borrow abroad directly
or indirectly as preferred customers of investment banks. The result of the
combination of private external borrowing and restriction of domestic credit
expansion through open market operations has been to skew the availability of
credit in favor of large firms with access to externally generated funds.
2.22      Aside from external borrowing, the sources of longer term financing
for industry are the private investment banks and the public development banks.
Banking system credit is almost entirely short-term. Finance company credit,
while somewhat longer term, has been channelled largely into financing con-
sumer durables. Investment bank operations have grown from less than 8 to 11Z
of financial system credit to the private sector between 1969 and 1974, yet
the Government has expressed disappointment with vital aspects of their oper-
ations. First, most investment banks are interested in larger clients and
tend to view new clients of smaller size as candidates for merger or acquisi-
tion. Second, the investment banks' lending horizon tends to fall short of
borrowers' needs, especially in the case of smaller clients, since it typically
does not exceed four years and probably averages only two to three.
2.23      The development banks, particularly BNDE, are the key institutions
in providing longer term financing to industry. However, even in the case
of BNDE operations, there tends to be some bias in favor of larger firms.
Most direct lending operations of BNDE are for large projects in basic industry
assigned high priority by the Government. Lending for SMIs accounted for
only 5% of BNDE's lending in 1974. In summary, although it is not possible
to quantify the extent of the credit gap for small- and medium-size industry,
it is clear that (a) there has been a tremendous expansion in the demand for
industrial credit in Brazil; (b) government actions have to some extent limited
the flow of private voluntary savings into the industrial credit market; (c)
the sources of long-term credit are quite limited; and (d) the credit system
seems to discriminate systematically against smaller firms insofar as
availability of longer term financing is concerned.



- 10 -
The Role of the State Development Banks (SDBs)
2.24      The state development banks are a small but growing source of credit
to the private sector. Loans by these development banks to the private sector
have approximately doubled each year since 1970 and while still accounting for
a small portion of the credit outstanding to the private sector (Annex 8),
they are much more important as a source of term financing to industry. Oper-
ations of the SDBs almost exclusively involve onlending of funds provided by
official entities, but as BNDE provides a significant portion of the funds avail-
able to SDBs, it has a sufficient operational control to be able to influence
their operations. Because of their geographical coverage SDBs can reach SMIS
more effectively than a centralized institution and are considered the most
appropriate intermediary for lending to small and medium industries, provided
their project appraisal capabilities are improved and their technical staff
is upgraded. One of the major purposes of the proposed Bank loan is to achieve
these goals.
Financing Very Small Industry
2.25      With respect to very small firms, those with less than 20 employees,
hereinafter referred to as artisan firms, the state development banking system
may rot be the appropriate vehicle for providing financial assistance. There
are important differences in the financing problems of artisan firms and
those referred to as SMI firms in this report. In most cases of loans to SMI,
it is possible for the lender to carry out an appraisal of the technical,
financial and economic aspects of the project. Not only is information
easier to get than in the case of artisan firms but it is also more likely
that the cost of appraisal, which is largely fixed, will be covered by the
spread to the intermediary. In lending to artisan firms the appraisal is
often ultimately reduced to an evaluation of the entrepreneurial capability
of the owner-manager. This is similar to a "character loan" and represents
the type of judgment a commercial bank manager is usually best able to make.
Moreover, commercial banks with their networks of branches and their staffs'
knowledge of local conditions might be the most appropriate inter-
mediary for lending to artisan firms. The Brazilian authorities are aware
of the problems artisan firms have in obtaining financing. The approaches
being considered to ameliorate the situation include (a) loan guarantee
schemes designed to overcome the often encountered problems of insufficient
collateral and other guarantees; (b) technical assistance programs designed
to provide aid in production management, marketing and financial administration;
and (c) a program of subsidized project preparation to reduce the high cost
to the firm of preparing loan applications (technical services firms generally
charge a fixed fee plus 3 to 8% of financing requested). It is expected that
current discussions with the Government on these matters including the pro-
posed research project with CEBRAE (para. 2.14) will provide the basis for
a possible subsequent Bank operation focussing more on this industrial sub-
sector.



- 11 -
Interest Rates and Indexing
2.26      At present about one fifth of the liabilities of the Brazilian
Treasury and the financial system are monetarily corrected. Monetary correc-
tion (or indexing) is now applied to Treasury bonds, deposits in savings
and loan associations, and to long-term industrial and housing credit.
Short-term deposits and loans carry interest rates adjusted ex ante with
nominal yields generally in excess of the expected rate of inflation. During
1974, the rate of inflation (about 34% on a year-end to year-end basis) was
substantially higher than previously expected and, therefore, assets with
monetary correction enjoyed a higher return than those without it. This
situation caused savers to shift a significant portion of their holdings to
monetarily corrected assets, thereby causing an imbalance in the financial
system. In part to correct this situation as well as to induce borrowers
to contract long-term obligations with monetary corrections, since the end
of 1974 the Government has made several modifications in the indexing system
(Annex 9). These modifications do not constitute a departure from the
principle of indexing and the interest rate structure in Brazil will continue
to be adequate from the point of view of resource mobilization as well as of
resource allocation since positive real interest rates will continue to prevail.
Nevertheless, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that changes in interest rates and indexing, which could affect
the project, would not be made without prior consultation with the Bank.
Coordination of Industrial Lending
2.27      During the preparation of this proposed project substantial progress
was made by the Government in coordinating lending to small and medium indus-
tries. Resources from PIS and PASEP, which were formerly channelled to state
development banks by CEF, are now channelled through BNDE. This has assured
consistency of interest rates and project appraisal criteria as far as lending
through state development banks is concerned. However, given the multitude
of agencies, programs and funds that still exists in Brazil's financial sector,
and the different ministries that supervise these agencies, coordination of
Government   industrial lending is still difficult, with some overlapping of
programs and inconsistencies in lending terms and criteria. The Government,
however, is aware that there should be a more consistent and coordinated
approach to the sector on the part of the Central Bank (the regulatory and
supervisory agency overseeing banks) and BNDE (the principal supplier of
resources to the greater part of the development banking institutions). To
achieve that objective, agreement was reached during negotiations with the
Government to cause BNDE and the Central Bank to take the following steps by
December 31, 1976: (i) coordinate their onlending terms and criteria for
projects in similar subsectors and regions; (ii) study the equity erosion
problem and recommend steps to recapitalize SDBs; and (iii) introduce greater
uniformity in reporting and accounting procedures by SDBs.



- 12 -
III. THE NATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (BNDE)
A.   BNDE's Orgaijization and Procedures
Ownership and Objectives
3.01      BNDE was created in 1952 as a federal agency to manage special funds
with a view to supporting the Government's efforts to develop key economic
sectors of the economy in line with the recommendations of the Brazil-US
Joint Economic Commission. BNDE has since become the Government's most
important agency for assisting industrial development. In 1971 it was
transformed into a fully Government-owned public enterprise, being granted
greater financial and administrative autonomy, under the supervision of the
Secretariat of Planning of the Presidency of the Republic. At the end of
1974 paid-in capital stood at Cr$9.0 billion (about US$1.2 billion equivalent).
3.02      During its early years, BNDE's operations were heavily oriented
towards financing public sector projects in power, transportation and basic
industries. However, beginning in the mid-1960s BNDE broadened its lending
activities by increasing its term lending to private manufacturing industry
and by creating a series of special funds and lines of credit directed to
subsectors considered of high priority by the Government and BNDE such as
FIPEME, 1/ the special fund for financing small-and medium-scale industries.
This broadening of operations followed from the increasing role Government
authorities and agencies have played in mobilizing private savings in Brazil.
3.03      In more recent years, BNDE has taken a central role in fostering
the development of the state and regional development banking system, and has
also developed its operations by creating specialized subsidiaries to deal with
certain specific requirements of industry, thus complementing its own operational
programs. These subsidiaries include FINAME, 2/ which finances the acquisition
of industrial equipment and machinery, the recently created equity financing
corporations, IBRASA, EMBRAMEC, FIBASE and ABICO (the latter with the participa-
tion of the Kuwait Investment Company), and CEBRAE, 3/ the special agency for
managerial assistance to SMIs (Details on the scope and operations of these
subsidiaries are given in Annexes 3 and 5). The newly created equity financing
1/   FIPEME   -  Programa de Financiamento a Pequena e Media Empresa.
2/   FINAME   -  Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial.
3/   IBRASA   -  Investimentos Brasileiros, S.A.
EMBRAMEC -  Mecanica Brasileira, S.A.
FIBASE   -  Insumos Basicos, S.A. Financiamentos e Participacoes
ABICO    -  Companhia de Investimento Arabe a Brasileira
CEBRAE   -  Centro Brasileiro de Assistencia Genencial e Pequena e
Media Empresa.



- 13 -
subsidiaries are expected to fill an important financing gap for Brazilian enter-
prises by providing risk capital. In due course, the subsidiaries are expected
to sell some of their investments to the public and this should have a positive
impact on the development of Brazil's capital market.
3.04      Overall, the BNDE system has contributed significantly to Brazil's
industrialization by promoting and providing finance to important subsectors
and industries. For instance, BNDE played a major role in assisting the
successful implementation of the expansion programs of the Brazilian steel
industries and other key subsectors such as paper and chemicals. The FIPEME
program was the first systematic and successful effort to support SMI which
previously had practically no access to term financing (Annex 10). In 1974,
BNDE and FINAME's operations accounted for about 7.5% of Brazil's total gross
capital formation compared to 3.4% in 1970; about 68% of their lending was
directed to manufacturing industries (of which about two thirds to basic
industries), 24% to public utilities and 5% to agriculture and agro-industries.
An even greater role is reserved for BNDE in coming years in support of Brazil's
increased industrial requirements, particularly for the expansion and diver-
sification of capital and intermediary goods industries. To this end, BNDE's
draft five year Operational Program (1975-1979) calls for BNDE's overall
commitments to increase from around US$2.5 billion equivalent in 1974 to
US$5.9 billion by 1978. The Operational Program is closely identified with
the priorities and objectives outlined in the Federal Government's own dev-
elopment plan. Apart from more traditional policy objectives of supporting
economic development, strengthening Brazilian private enterprise, reducing
regional development imbalances, and fostering the growth and diversification
of exports, the Operational Program calls for supporting the preservation of
the environment and improving the living standards of the population. In sup-
port of the two latter points, BNDE will enforce stricter environmental impact
analysis and pollution control in projects it finances and will provide special
incentives, through lower interest rates and larger BNDE financing, for indus-
tries that are located outside densely populated areas. It will also provide
special incentives for industries producing basic consumer goods such as low-
cost foodstuffs. BNDE is also placing high priority on providing special
assistance to SMIs (through a modified FIPEME Program) and on decentralizing
operations and strengthening State and Regional Development Banks (SDBs).
3.05       It follows from BNDE's objective of further decentralizing oper-
ations and of relying more on SDBs (BNDE plans to increase its lending through
intermediaries from the present 15% to around 25% of its total by 1978) that
intermediaries should have the means and capability to allocate funds effi-
ciently and that BNDE have the appropriate capacity to control the allocative
process.  To this end, the proposed project will help support BNDE's efforts
to improve the operational standards, appraisal methods and control procedures
of the development banking system and BNDE's own capability to deal with
these matters effectively.



- 14 -
Administrative Council, Management and Staff
3.06      BNDE's higher management consists of an Administrative Council, and
a Board of Managing Directors (Annex 11). The Administrative Council is com-
posed of nine members, including BNDE's President, who is the Chairman. Two
members are representatives of the ministries of finance and industry and six
are nominated by the President of the Republic, for three-year terms. Ordi-
narily, the Council meets four times a year to discuss and approve the Bank's
overall policies and programs, including its investment budget and financial
statements. It is presently composed of leading personalities from Brazil's
public and private sectors (Annex 12).
3.07      BNDE is managed by a President, Mr. Marcos P. Vianna, and five
directors who form the Board of Managing Directors (Annex 12). All are com-
petent and experienced professionals, three of whom are full-time members of
BNDE's staff, in compliance with the requirements of BNDE's Charter. The
Board of Managing Directors meets at least once a week and has a comprehensive
mandate to conduct day-to-day business. Directors are appointed for a four-year
term by the President of the Republic. Mr. Vianna, who is currently in his
second term, has proven to be a particularly able and competent executive.
During his five years in office he has, inter alia, expanded and diversified
BNDE's operations and enlarged the bank's resource base by obtaining the
transfer to BNDE of the financial management of the Government's Social
Integration Programs. 1/ Mr. Vianna recently reorganized BNDE along more
rational and flexible lines and created the abovementioned equity financing
subsidiaries. He was also instrumental in creating CEBRAE and has taken a
particular interest in strengthening the development banking system. He is
currently president of the Brazilian Association of Development Banks (ABDE).
3.08      Reflecting a competitive selection process, BNDE's staff is mostly
composed of competent and dedicated professionals. Although the technical staff
increased by 66Z during the last three years to 345 professionals at year-end
1974 (35% of total staff, Annex 13), this increase has been insufficient to
cope with the threefold real increase in operations experienced between 1972-
74. To cope with this situation, BNDE is building up its staff development
1/   The two social integration programs (PIS and PASEP) were created in 1970
to provide workers and public servants, respectively, with a share of
the growth of the Brazilian economy. Following a dialogue with the Bank
on the need for greater consistency in the allocative criteria and
lending terms of these substantial resources (about US$1.1 billion
equivalent in 1974), the Government transferred to BNDE in 1974 the
financial management of the programs.



- 15 -
programs and is in the process of recruiting 100 senior professionals; it should
not encounter difficulty in achieving this, since salary scales, together with
other benefits, are generally competitive with the private sector.
Organization, Operating Policies and Practices
3.09      BNDE is organized along six functional areas headed by managing
directors or executive managers who have been delegated operational flexi-
bility, including some approval authority (Annex 11).
3.10      Although operating within the broad framework of government policy,
BNDE has considerable latitute in directing and conducting its business. It
is empowered to finance private and public enterprises directly or through
intermo4iaries or subsidiaries. It can engage in loan operations, the grant-
ing of guarantees (in its own name or in the name of the Government), equity
investments, underwriting and making grants for education and research projects.
BNDE has not consolidated its operational policies in a comprehensive policy
statement, but satisfactory policy guidelines are spelled out in various
resolutions that pertain to specific lending programs and in the bank's Plan of
Action. Normally, BNDE will only assist Brazilian-owned enterprises and requires
tangible collateral of at least 130%.
3.11      In the past BNDE has taken substantial equity participations in some
key industrial sectors such as the steel industry. While some of these parti-
cipations were voluntary, others originated from loan and guarantee conver-
sions in industries which experienced start-up difficulties. Its present
policy is to keep equity financing to a minimum and to delegate such function
to its recently created equity financing subsidiaries.
3.12      BNDE has no statutory limits on its maximum exposure to a single
enterprise. However, in its actual operations, BNDE's exposure in single
enterprises has been kept at reasonably prudent levels. As of December 1974
the greatest exposure the bank had (equity and outstanding loans) was to the steel
mill COSIPA with about Cr$3.2 billion, or 22% of BNDE's equity. The second
largest exposure was to an other steel mill, USIMINAS (Cr$2.5 billion), about
17% of BNDE's own equity. Since then, however, BNDE has divested itself of
a substantial part of its equity participation in steel mills, selling them
to the Government holding company SIDERBRAS.
B.   BNDE's Area of Operations with Agents (APA)
3.13      The Area of Operations with Agents (APA), which was recently renamed
and reorganized, is the continuation of the group that managed onlending
operations under the former Department of Special Operations. APA is respon-
sible for all onlending to financial intermediaries, including the follow-up
and provision of technical assistance. It will be directly responsible for
execut Lg the proposed project. This appraisal, therefore, also focuses on
the structure, objectives, procedures and capacity of APA to carry out
the proposed project successfully.



- 16 -
APA's Organization, Management and Staff
3.14    APA is headed by an able and dynamic executive manager, who reports directly to
BNDE's president. APA has two operational departments, one which is responsible
for lending to development banks (DEBAN) and the other for lending to invest-
ment banks (DEBIN). Both these departments are headed by qualified staff.
Each department has three managers, two of whom are responsible for following
up on the work of intermediaries and one for reviewing subprojects. As of
the end of 1974 the area had 33 professionals, 12 managers, and a total staff
of 94 persons. Half of the professional staff,consisting of economists,
engineers, financial analysts, lawyers and statisticians,have more than 3
years of professional experience.
3.15      The present number of professionals is, however, insufficient to
handle APA's enlarged responsibilities which call for administering on-
lending programs, reviewing subprojects and supervising the performance of
22 state and regional development banks and around 18 private investment banks.
APA is expected to be allocated an additional 10 to 12 senior professionals
following BNDE's present recruiting efforts (para. 3.8). Notwithstanding the
latter, APA's capability for dealing with SDBs should be further strengthened.
To this end, under the proposed project,development banking specialists, under
terms of reference to be agreed between BNDE and the Bank, would assist APA in:
(i) working out procedures to monitor the performance of SDBs; (ii) preparing
criteria for evaluating the economic feasibility of projects and subsector de-
velopment programs; (iii) reviewing and recommending on improvement in procure-
ment procedures; and (iv) preparing and implementing technical assistance
programs to SDBs, including on-the-job training. This assistance would total
some 26 man-months and its foreign exchange cost (US$157,000) would be covered
out of the proceeds of the proposed loan unless BNDE prefers to finance it
itself. An outline of such technical assistance is given in Annex 42.
APA's Scope and Programs
3.16      Whereas BNDE's direct operations are primarily geared to assist
large enterprises, indirect operations through agents are to provide the
necessary support for smaller undertakings in line with the goal of fostering
a more even distribution of economic activity. As part of its indirect
operations APA is, therefore, attempting to strengthen and coordinate the
planning function of SDBs, their allocative process and their overall opera-
tional capability.
3.17      The principal operating instruments to achieve the above are APA's
Joint Operations Program (Programa de Operacoes Conjuntas (POC)), which was
created in mid-1974 and supersedes the FIPEME program, and a program to
strengthen the equity base of SDBs through loans to state governments. POC
channels resources under different subprograms (Operacoes PACOTE, PROGRAMA and
PROJETO) via credit lines to financial intermediaries that are granted subproject
approval free limits and that have to follow procedures and onlending terms set



- 17 -
by BNDE, apart from having to meet minimum institutional standards, comply with
reporting requirements, etc. The PACOTE subprogram is specifically designed to
finance SMIs (firms with up to US$7.5 million equivalent of fixed assets after
project implementation) and would be the object of the Bank's direct support
under the project. The other two subprograms are for assisting larger enter-
prises and sectoral development programs. A detailed description of the scope
and procedures of the POC program are given in Annex 14. The capitalization
program will help SDBs strengthen their equity and increase their ability to
accumulate debt in line with BNDE's objective of decentralizing its lending.
The program provides for BNDE to onlend to state governments which will use
these funds in turn to subscribe to the capital of SDBs. To qualify for the
program SDBs have to submit an operational plan of action to BNDE. Coordination
between this program and a similar one carried out by the Central Bank should
be pursued and assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government
and BNDE during negotiations (para. 2.27). Assurances were also obtained
from BNDE during negotiations that it will not undertake substantial modifi-
cations in the scope and procedures of its PACOTE subprogram which would
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the project.
SDBs Free Limit
3.18      APA has granted its agents limited approval authority for PACOTE
operations and has committed to them six months renewable credit lines. The
free limits vary between 65,000 ORTNs (US$975,000) for the five best SDBs and
20,000 to 30,000 ORTNs (US$300,000 - US$450,000) for the smaller and weaker
banks. In establishing these limits, APA took into account the past financial
and operational performance of the intermediaries, including the size distri-
bution of loans, and the composition of its technical staff and management. APA
has used judgement and restraint in establishing the limits, which are acceptable
and broadly in line with the capabilities of the banks. Through its follow-up
work APA plans to monitor closely the adequacy of these limits and make adjust-
ments as appropriate. Credit lines totalling Cr$2.1 billion for PACOTE
operations were committed in August 1975 to 37 development and investment
banks. Amounts to individual banks vary between Cr$563 million and Cr$12
million, in line with the needs and absorptive capacity of each bank.
APA's Appraisal
3.19      Under the POC program, APA limits itself to reviewing and commenting
on appraisals carried out by the intermediaries and approving or rejecting
operations above their free limits. APA has prepared and issued a manual
outlining the steps and necessary coverage of project appraisal. The manual
is exhaustive and generally satisfactory but should be improved by introducing
the calculation of the project's financial and economic rates of return. Pre-
sently, project decisions are primarily made on the firms' projected profit-
ability and ability to service debt, apart from technical and collateral
considerations. The proposed Plan of Action agreed with BNDE (para. 4.24)



- 18 -
would provide for improving SDBs' appraisal standards. Similarly, the
proposed technical assistance to APA (para. 3.15) would help APA in improving
standards. Apart from the above limitations, APA's own appraisal review is
generally comprehensive and competent. Subproject approval time has been
reduced and is now averaging three weeks.
APA's Follow-up
3.20      APA's follow-up of the intermediaries' performance is carried out
through periodic reporting requirements and through field visits. Because
of staff constraints, these field visits have tended to be unsystematic and
limited in coverage, responding more to specific problems or crises than to a
longer term institution building effort. APA's current management is aware
of this deficiency and is strongly committed to strengthening supervision,
particularly in view of the greater autonomy granted to intermediaries. With
the new approval procedures APA's staff should be available to visit each of
the agents at least once a-year. Moreover, reporting requirements are being
tightened and made more uniform. APA, nevertheless, needs guidance in further
structuring and improving its supervision work. Besides the technical assistance
proposed under the project, agreement was reached with BNDE during negotiations
on a program for supervising SDBs.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.21      Just like the Bank when lending to DFCs, BNDE does not normally
require competitive bidding under its onlending programs. Subborrowers are,
however, expected to purchase from the most advantageous source after canvassing
alternative sources of supply and to justify to SDBs the selection of equipment
and machinery. Although procedures could be further improved through more
explicit procurement guidelines and a more systematic review process by SDBs
and BNDE, present procedures are considered satisfactory in view of the limited
size of subprojects. The proposed technical assistance to BNDE would include
reviewing and recommending on possible improvements to present procurement
procedures (para. 3.15). Disbursement procedures are adequate, payments being
made in instalments based on progress in project implementation.
Technical Assistance to SDBs
3.22      BNDE has been instrumental in promoting and intensifying, in recent
years, technical assistance to SDBs. This assistance has been carried out
mainly indirectly through the Association of Development Banks (ADBE) which
has provided a variety of seminars and courses for all levels of SDBs' staff.
Results have been encouraging and the effort is continuing. Direct technical
assistance, aimed at solving specific problems of SDBs, has been limited but
the present APA management is committed to improve on this. In this regard,
an SDB staff secondment program to APA was recently established. The pro-
posed technical assistance under the project would also support APA in its
technical assistance program (para. 3.15).



19 -
C.   BNDE's Resources, Operations and Financial Position
Resources
3.23      BNDE's resources as of December 31, 1974, consisted of its equity
(Cr$14.7 billion, about US$2.0 billion), domestic borrovings (Cr$12.2 billion,
about US$1.6 billion), some foreign borrowings (Cr$3.5 billion, about US$0.5
billion) and a small amount of short-term deposits belonging to clients (An-
nexes 15 and 16). At year-end 1974 BNDE was over-committed by about Cr$6.5
billion insofar as resources readily available for disbursement. This is not
of concern at this time because of the continued flow of resources the insti-
tution receives from earmarked funds and the Government. Funds from the
Government's social integration programs (para. 3.07) will continue to be
the maijistay of the bank's resources; BNDE forecasts receiving Cr$11 to Cr$12
billion during 1975, increasing to around Cr$18 billion by 1978 from these
programs. Other sources of funds include yearly Government budgetary grants,
which eventually are incorporated into capital, a share in the national tax
on financial transactions, and special borrowing agreements with the Central
Bank and other official financial institutions. Practically all of BNDE's
domestic borrowings carry positive interest rates and full monetary correction;
the social funds have to be remunerated at least at 3% per annum plus monetary
correction.
3.24      Up to now, BNDE has not directly mobilized private savings through
Brazil's capital market. The Government has felt that BNDE's entry in the
market could weaken the ability of the housing finance system to mobilize
resources. It has, however, increased its borrowings in the international
financial market, both to strengthen its position and to support the Government's
balance of payments stabilization efforts. It has encountered, however,
increasing difficulty in obtaining favorable terms from external sources. A
recent operation for US$120 million with a consortium of international banks
has a maturity of five years carrying interests of 1-3/4 percentage points
above the London interbank rate, compared to previous foreign borrowings that
had maturities of 10-15 years and lower interest rates (Annex 16).
Operations
3.25      BNDE has a wide spectrum of funds and programs for lending to the
private and public sectors, in addition to programs undertaken by subsi-
diaries. Lending terms are differentiated according to the needs and priori-
ties assigned by BNDE to particular sectors or activities. Interest rates
are positive and all operations are indexed. In recent years there has been
a dramatic increase of the bank's overall operations, reflecting the abovemen-
tioned increase in its resource base and booming demand for financing. BNDE's
overall commitments in constant terms increased threefold between 1972 and
1974, totalling Cr$16.9 billion 1/ in that latter year, while disbursements
totalied Cr$10.6 billion (about US$1.4 billion). This absolute increase was
1/   Cr$18.2 billion, including onlending to subsidiaries.



- 20 -
accompanied by diversification, manufacturing industry increasing its share
from 55% in 1969 to 73% in 1974 and a further concentration of operations
in the South and Southeast of the country which received 74% of total lending
(Annexes 19 and 20). BNDE is taking steps to spread its future operations
more evenly. Lending to SMIs increased from around Cr$500 million in 1970
(in 1974 cruzeiros) to over Cr$800 million in 1974 and during the first 7
months of 1975 APA had already approved Cr$730 million for SMIs.
3.26      BNDE's operational forecasts for 1975-78 are given in Annexes 17
and 21. Overall commitments are projected to increase about 157% in real
terms between 1974-1978, to Cr$46.9 billion in the latter year (about US$5.9
billion), including onlending to subsidiaries, with disbursements totalling
about Cr$43.5 billion. Basic industries (steel, fertilizer, etc.) would
absorb about one third of the projected lending, capital goods one fourth,
infrastructure one twelfth and onlending through intermediaries, primarily
for SMIs, one fourth. Given that BNDE is now provided with substantial ear-
marked funds, these ambitious projections seem attainable. Close to half of
the necessary resources would be provided by the social programs (para. 3.07),
30% from traditional domestic borrowings and Government grants and about 5%
from external borrowings.
3.27      BNDE's projected increase in POC indirect operations is also very
substantial (Annex 22). Commitments in constant terms are expected to increase
from Cr$2.7 billion in 1974 to Cr$12.4 billion by 1978 (about US$1.6 billion),
lending directed to SMIs accounting for more than half of the total. BNDE is
confident that the dramatic increases are achievable. Firstly, BNDE will rely
increasingly on channelling operations through agents. Secondly, through the
subprogram to capitalize development banks, and the closer assistance and
follow-up BNDE plans to give, SDBs should be able to absorb this increased
level of operations. Thirdly, with the new procedures that include providing
intermediaries with global credit lines and free limits and less restrictions
on the subsectoral allocation of resources, the POC program is now operationally
more flexible. Finally, the investment requirements of industry and consequent
need for term financing are substantial. To monitor the effectiveness of
its programs BNDE recently instituted an operations evaluation unit which
has already had a positive impact by recommending the reorientation of one
of BNDE's lending programs which was not meeting its objectives. A dialogue
between the bank and that unit has been established so that the unit may
benefit from the Bank's experience.
Portfolio and Financial Performance
3.28      As of December 31, 1974, BNDE's portfolio amounted to Cr$23.1
billion (US$3.1 billion) of loans and Cr$5.6 billion (US$0.8 billion) of
equity investments corresponding, in real terms, to an increase of 100% and
26%, respectively, over 1972 (Annex 25). About 82% of the equity portfolio



- 21 -
(Annex 23) and 20% of the loan portfolio consists of loans and participa-
tions in steel industries and subsidiaries. 1/ All subsidiaries were
profitable in 1974. BNDE's arrears situation improved markedly between 1972
and 1974 (Annex 24); however, because of short-term factors, arrearage
increased slightly at year-end 1974. At that time, principal and interest
in arrears over three months amounted to Cr$272 million and affected 2.6% of
the total loan and guarantee portfolio. BNDE is presently carrying out a
comprehensive review of the adequacy of its provisions particularly in view
of the fact that three fourths of its loan portfolio is still in the grace
period. However, provisions for doubtful debts are considered satisfactory
at Cr$340 million.
3.29      Because of inflation, the substantial nominal profit BNDE generated
in 1974 (Cr$3.6 billion) for a year-end equity of Cr$14.7 billion overstates
the true extent of the institution's profitability (Annex 25). After adjusting
for erosion of equity through inflation, BNDE's real profit is reduced to about
Cr$140 million in 1974. Similarly, some of the financial ratios given in Annex
28 should be interpreted with caution because of the inflationary distortions.
It is BNDE's policy as a public development institution to keep profits to the
bare minimum to cover the impact of inflation on its equity. The implications
of this policy on BNDE's future interest rate structure and resource mix cannot
be assessed at this time since BNDE does not yet prepare projected financial
statements. However, following a recent visit to the Bank by the head of BNDE's
financial department, BNDE is now seriously considering adopting the Bank's
DFC financial projection model and, accordingly, preparing pro forma statements.
Furthermore, as part of its reporting requirements under the project, BNDE
will have to submit annually to the Bank three-year operational and financial
forecasts at least covering APA's operations. Past funds flow statements for
BNDE are given in Annex 27.
3.30      BNDE's capital structure is sound with very low financial leverage.
Its total debt/equity at year-end 1974, including guarantees, amounted to
1.16:1. This should allow the institution considerable room to undertake its
ambitious operational expansion. Though BNDE's foreign exchange exposure and
coverage could not be fully determined, it is regarded as satisfactory since
(i) external borrowings are limited to 18.8% of outstanding debt; and (ii)
it normally passes on the foreign exchange risk to ultimate beneficiaries or
lends with ORTN 2/ monetary correction. Since 1969, ORTN variations have
been considerably higher than the dollar variation against the cruzeiro, thus
providing BNDE with a foreign exchange gain. This situation is expected to
continue in line with the Government's policy of devaluing the cruzeiro by an
amount that takes into account Brazil's inflation less the domestic inflation
of its principal trading partners.
1/   FINAIME, IBRASA, EMBRAMEC and FIBASE.
2/   Brazilian Government Treasury Bonds.



- 22 -
Audit
3.31      BNDE has a competent internal auditing department which, apart
from verifying financial statements, prepares management reports on the
operations and financial condition of the institution. In addition, BNDE is
audited annually by Government auditors and by the firm of Arthur, Young,
Clarkson and Gordon, which prepares a short and a long form auditor's report.
The onlv aualification in the 1974 audit concerns BNDE's steel industry equity
investments insofar that the auditor's opinion is based on reports of other
external auditors who investigated the subsidiary companies. Some aspects
of Arthur Young's auditing could be improved. The auditor's report does not
cover explicitly certain aspects of BNDE's financial statements, i.e., (i) the
condition of its loan portfolio and the adequacy of its provision for bad
debts; (ii) the extent and coverage of BNDE's foreign exchange risk; (iii)
the separation of short- and long-term liabilities and assets, to determine
the bank's liquidity position (this is partly due to the present Central Bank
accounting plan which does not provide for separation); and, finally, (iv)
more detailed and systematic coverage of BNDE's operations, including inform-
ation on approvals, commitments and disbursements. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with BNDE that future external auditor's reports will
cover the above aspects, in line with the Bank's format.
IV. THE STATE AND-REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
A.   Organization
4.01      Establishment and Objectives.  In response to a nationwide need
for institutions specialized in term financing, the early sixties saw the
establishment of a number of state and regional development banks (SDBs).
The SDB system, however, was only consolidated in 1968 when the Central Bank
formally regulated the constitution and functions of SDBs. Presently, the
system includes 22 institutions of which three are regional development banks,
11 are full-fledged state development banks, and 8 are mixed state development
banks 1/ (Annex 30). Though several of these banks only started to operate
in the early seventies, the SDBs have already proved to be dynamic instruments
which the federal and state authorities use for implementing their economic
expansion policies. SDBs' objectives include promoting and assisting the
development of agricultural, industrial, and service enterprises; encouraging
and promoting import substitution and export oriented projects; stimulating
private investments in the basic sectors of the economy; and supporting
public sector infrastructure projects. To that end, SDBs are allowed to
undertake several financial functions, namely: (i) term lending; (ii) share
capital financing and underwriting; and (iii) providing local and foreign
currency guarantees (Annex 29).
1/   State commercial banks with a development portfolio.



- 23 -
4.02      Ownership.  At year-end 1974, the SDBs' share capital totalled about
Cr$2,291 million (US$286 million equivalent), of which regional development
banko act,"ated  ui. 'Z%, full-fledged state development banks for 50%, and
mixed state development banks for 15%. In all banks the majority of capital
stock is held by the public sector. With the exception of the regional dev-
elopment banks, which are administered by the Federal Government or regional
councils, all development banks are under the authority of their respective
state government
4.03      Relations with the State Governments.  State governments set the
policies of their respective development banks, yet, with a few exceptions,
they have not unduly exercised this prerogative, preferring to exert influence
indirectly through the regulations of several development funds which the
SDBs rely on for sustaining their operations. In most states this situation
has apparently brought about a reasonably effective working relationship
between local authorities and the banks, allowing SDBs to participate
actively in the process of economic expansion and to diversify their assist-
ance more freely beyond the primary role of provider of term finance. Over-
all, SDBs have achieved a healthy balance between maintaining a close working
relationship with state authorities and preserving a reasonable autonomy in
day-to-day operations and business decisions.
4.04      Policy and Decision-Making Councils.  SDBs are governed by an
assembly of shareholders assisted by a fiscal council. Delegation of manage-
ment authority takes a variety of forms; in some cases there are consultative
or deliberative councils, while in others, the President has full authority
for conducting business and policy-making. Because of differences in the
way members are chosen and elected, the quality of council members varies.
To ensure qualified membership, some SDBs require that members meet minimum
professional qualifications.   As the main provider of funds of the system,
BNDE intends to use its influence to have this requirement adopted by all
SDBs.
4.05      Management and Staff.  Day-to-day management is in the hands of a
President chairing over a board of directors usually appointed for 3-5 year-
terms by state governors. Being political appointments, the quality of manage-
ment varies. Appointees have not always succeeded in isolating themselves
from undue external influences or have lacked experience to ensure an adequate
development orientation in their decision making.   Together with the Brazilian
Association of Development Banks (ABDE), BNDE is taking steps to improve
management; it recently set up training programs for SDB managers and is
building up APA's capacity to monitor more closely SDB management performance.
In several cases BNDE has been consulted on the appointment of SDB presidents;
with its program to capitalize SDBs, it should be in a stronger position to
advise -Late governors in the selection of SDB presidents and promote the
fuller use of career professionals in their directorships.



- 24 -
4.06      Staff strength varies among SBDs ranging from 53 for the Banco do
Estado de Piaui to about 4,000 for Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB). Re-
flecting their mixed orientation, i.e. commercial and developmental, pro-
fessionals represent 4% of total staff among mixed state development banks
as compared to 38% in the full-fledged SDBs. Though total SDB staff has been
increasing rapidly in recent years, some banks in the poorer states are
understaffed because salary scales are not always competitive with the private
sector. Staff quality also differs among SDBs. In some, management often
relies on competitive selection to ensure that staff meet minimum qualifications
while in others, emphasis has been put on in-house professional training.
Overall, there is need to further improve staff quality; the scope of ABDE's
staff development programs should be expanded and, as appropriate, the weaker
banks should be provided with direct technical assistance to remedy their
specific deficiencies. The project's proposed technical assistance component
will help to assist on this matter (para. 3.15).
B.   Operational Procedures and Practices
4.07      Appraisal.  While appraisal standards and procedures of the larger
banks are usually satisfactory, those of the smaller ones can be improved,
reflecting staff inadequacies, lack of appropriate appraisal guidelines and
differences in project appraisal requirements. Most appraisals focus too
narrowly on the borrowers' creditworthiness and collaterals. Though there
is a general need for strengthening the techniques and procedures for asses-
sing the projects'technical viability, the weakest part of SDBs' appraisals
lies in their financial forecasts and economic evaluation; only a limited
number of banks calculate financial and economic rates of return of projects.
With the exception of a few banks that orient their activities through sub-
sector development programs, economic considerations weigh little in the
decision-making process; general qualitative considerations and overt indica-
tors such as employment generation, or capital intensiveness being used to
assess the projects' desirability and developmental contribution. BNDE is
aware of the above deficiencies and has already taken steps to strengthen
the SDBs' appraisal capability. Besides having organized with ABDE various
project evaluation courses,it issued a model format for project appraisal
that should help standardize appraisal work. Further efforts are, however,
needed. During negotiations, understanding was reached with BNDE on the
scope of improvements including the introduction of financial and economic
rate of return calculations (Annex 39).
4.08      Supervision.  About two thirds of the SDBs have established super-
vision procedures.   While most SDBs adequately supervise project implementa-
tion, few extend follow-up beyond that stage primarily because of staff shortages.
Although borrowers must report regularly on their financial conditions and
activities, such requirements are not always strictly enforced. During
negotiations, understanding was reached with BNDE to upgrade the SDBs' follow-
up activities.



- 25 -
4.09      Procurement and Disbursement.  Though for larger projects most
SDBs rely on feasibility studies prepared by consultants or on the services
of technical institutions to assess the suitability of machinery and equip-
ment being procured, they do not systematically require all clients to
follow competitive bidding in procurement. However BNDE's latest project
appraisal guidelines, which are to be followed by SDBs for their operations
with BNDE, require that the technical process, machinery and equipment to be
procured under the project be justified taking into account alternative
processes and equipment. More explicit procurement guidelines would help
development banks upgrade their resource allocation ability and contribute
more efficiently to the transfer of technology. The proposed technical
assistance to BNDE under the project would help prepare improved procurement
guidelines (para 3.15).
4.10      All development banks have established formal disbursement procedures
and control of investment expenditures. Overall disbursement procedures are
adequate, calling for periodic inspections during project implementation.
Loan disbursements are mostly made in instalments and are only authorized
upon satisfactory project progress and evidence that loan conditions have
been met.
4.11      Programming and Budgeting.  Owing to inflation and uncertainties
as to the availability of funds, the importance of programming and budgeting
has not yet been fully recognized by SDBs. About three-fifths of the develop-
ment banks prepare annual operating forecasts but less than one-half have ex-
plicit procedures to identify operational priorities and formulate medium and
long-term strategies. To allow SDBs to improve programming, BNDE has now
instituted a credit line system under its POC program, and a programming and
budgeting model for development banks. During negotiations, understanding
was reached with BNDE to require SDBs to submit, annually, two-year
operational and financial forecasts.    This would improve the SDBs'
management capability and resource allocation and would help federal
and state planning authorities in assessing the development banking system's
medium- and long-term financing requirements.
4.12      Internal and External Audit.  Banks are inspected at least once
a year by the Central Bank to ensure compliance with banking laws and regula-
tions. These inspections are usually limited in scope and do not cover all the
reviews carried out under normal external auditing procedures. Among SDBs where
internal or external auditing has been established--about one half of the dev-
elopment banking system--the scope and depth of audits varies. During nego-
tiations, understanding was reached with BNDE on steps to ensure that each
SDB set up an internal auditing unit and that all SDBs have full external
auditing carried out, according to a format to be agreed upon with the
Central Bank.



- 26 -
C.   Resources
4.13      In addition to their share capital, SDBs can raise resources by
(a) accepting fixed term deposits; (b) borrowing locally and abroad; (c)
issuing bonds and debentures; (d) onlending funds from official agencies;
and (e) taking up tied federal, state and municipal lines of credit and
contributions. At year-end 1974, 52% of the SDBs resources originated from
state and federal development funds and programs (Annexes 30 and 35) compared
to 19% for deposits, 15% for equity and 14% for other liabilities, BNDE and
the Central Bank being the largest fund contributors. Because of difficulties
experienced by some states in meeting the share capital requirements of the
development banks and the inability of a significant segment of the development
banking system to generate enough profits to compensate for erosion of equity
through inflation, at year-end 1974, about one quarter of SDBs suffered from
inadequate equity. Steps are currently being taken by BNDE and the Central Bank
to remedy this problem (paras. 2.27 and 3.17).
D.   Past Operations
4.14      In recent years SDBs' operations have risen sharply.  Between 1971
and 1974 their aggregate loan and equity portfolio increased from Cr$5.4
billion to Cr$23.1 billion, i.e., 145% in real terms, loans accounting for
95% of their total portfolio at year-end 1974 (Annexes 32, 33 and 34).
Lending to public entities is limited (16%) and,with a few exceptions, agri-
cultural lending is not significant. Industrial lending accounted for 47% of
the aggregate loan portfolio at year-end 1974 and includes a wide range of
industrial subsectors (Annex 37). Loans to SMIs as defined by BNDE has risen
steadily, accounting for about 45% of outstanding clients. Equity financing
has not yet developed significantly and amounted to 5% of their total portfolio
at year-end 1974 (Annex 38).
E.   Financial Position and Results
4.15      Quality of Portfolio and Provisions for Losses.  On the basis of
limited information available, and as confirmed by visits made by the appraisal
mission to a number of development banks, the SDBs' arrears position is generally
satisfactory. At year-end 1974, except for a few banks, the portion of the
development banks' loan portfolios affected by arrears was limited to a few
percentage points. Similarly, loans under liquidation within the system
aggregated less than 0.8% of total loans outstanding (Annex 30).
4.16      Because of their good collection records and reliance on strong loan
collateral,and given that a relatively large proportion of their portfolio
is in the grace period following the high operational growth of the past



- 27 -
two years, SDBs have tended to disregard the need for adopting formal pro-
vision policies for doubtful loans. A more consistent approach to portfolio
control and provisions is required. During negotiations understanding was
Lcaz.e ,.wLh BNDE on steps it intends to take to ensure that SDBs (i)
periodically carry out a detailed analysis of their arrears position and
portfolio quality; (il) compute anmually the necessary provisions for cover-
ing forecast operational losses; and (iii) seek their external auditor's
opinion on the adequacy of such-provisions.
4.17      Financial Structure.  The recent rapid expansion in lending
activities has largely been met by increased borrowing. Of the Cr $17.7
billion growth in aggregate total assets over the 1971-74 period, 77% was funded
through debt and 27% through internally generated funds and share capital increases
(Annexes 32, 33 and 34). Reflecting this, the debt/equity ratio of most SDBs has
steadily risen. At year-end 1974 six had passed the debt limits imposed at that
time by the Central Bank. Both BNDE and the Central Bank are taking steps to
remedy this. BNDE has instituted a program for financing state governments to
assist them in increasing the capital of their banks (para. 3.17). The Central
Bank recently raised the SDBs' total debt/equity ceiling from 10:1 to 15:1 so
as to provide the system with the same leverage currently extended to the
private investment banks. In view of the basically sound condition of their
portfolios, adequate collateral and the Central Bank's likely support should
the SDBs face liquidity problems, this ceiling though high is acceptable.
The present Central Bank plan of accounts for SDBs does not provide information
on the amount or the composition of current assets and liabilities. However,
given the SDBs' portfolio strength and good debt servicing record, it can be
reasonably assumed that their overall liquidity position is satisfactory.
Nevertheless, with a view to improving the SDBs' financial management and
reporting, the Central Bank's plan of accounts should be reviewed and modified
as appropriate (para 2.27).
4.18      Profitability.  Owing to variances in leverage, lending terms,
level of administrative costs, extent of non-income generating activities,
and size and maturity of equity investments, profitability differs consid-
erably among development banks. Because of their commercial transactions,
all mixed state development banks earn a profit which is sizeable in most
cases and which is usually high enough to compensate for erosion of equity
through inflation (Annex 30). On the other hand, 80% of the full-fledged
SDBs do not yet achieve earnings at least equal to the yearly rate of inflation
and, accordingly, subsidize their financing activities through depletion of
their own equity resources. This probably follows from the system where third-
party financing predominates and where financial intermediaries are tied to
the onlending terms established by the supplier of funds. Thus, low profit-
ability is probably the result of thin and often insufficient spreads. Though
the spreads offered under the proposed project are considered adequate, the
Govertner would cause BNDE and the Central Bank to study the above problem
and recommend specific steps to remedy it (para. 2.27).



- 28 -
F. Upgrading the Development Banking System
4.19      Although the SDBs have become one of the most dynamic instruments
of which the federal and state authorities have availed themselves for im-
plementing their industrial expansion policies, SDBs still have a number of
operational and institutional deficiencies. Given the SDBs' growing importance
as a source of term industrial finance,particularly to SMIs, the upgrading of
their operational effectiveness is of high priority. Because of its close
operational ties with SDBs, and given the technical assistance it will be
provided by development banking experts during the commitment period of
the proposed loan, BNDE is ideally located to assist in this task. Hence,
during negotiations agreement was reached with BNDE on the scope and timing
of a Plan of Action to improve the SDBs' project appraisal and follow-up,
planning and budgeting, internal and external auditing, portfolio control and
provision policies, and reporting (Annex 39).
V. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
5.01      The project envisages upgrading the SDBs' operational effectiveness,
building up BNDE's capability for dealing with SDBs, and providing term finan-
cing for SMIs.  To that end, it would include a Plan of Action to strengthen
Brazil's development banking system (para 4.19 and Annex 39), a technical
assistance component to BNDE (para. 3.15 and Annex 42), and would call for
a Bank loan of US$85 million to support BNDE's onlending programs to SMIs.
B.   The Proposed Loan
5.02      In view of BNDE's standing policy of not contracting direct external
borrowings with Government guarantees and since it can act as the Government's
financial agent, the proposed loan would be made to the Government of Brazil
which would make its proceeds available to BNDE under the same financial terms
and conditions as the Bank loan for (i) onlending to small- and medium-scale
industries through SDBs and (ii) covering the foreign exchange costs (US$157,000)
of technical assistance to its Area of Joint Operations (para. 3.15). BNDE
would absorb the foreign exchange risk between the currencies disbursed by
the Bank and the cruzeiro.
5.03      Onlending terms.  The loan proceeds would be used to finance part of
the foreign exchange component of fixed assets and permanent working capital of
investment projects carried out by SMIs. Subloans would be denominated in cru-
zeiros indexed according to ORTNs, and would carry regionally differentiated
interest rates: North and Northeast 1/ 3% p.a., Center-South 5% p.a., and
1/ Including Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Goias, and the drought area in
Minas Gerais.



- 29 -
Sao Paulo 6% p.a. Positive real interest rates to final beneficiaries would
overall prevail under the project (Annex 9). While SDBs would be provided
with a 2% - 2-1/2% 1/ spread, BNDE's spread would vary, but would be satis-
factory since the rate of monetary correction (ORTN) on sums due to BNDE on
cruzeiro subloans is expected to be higher than the rate of depreciation of
the cruzeiro, which will determine the amount of local currency needed to
purchase foreign currencies to service the Bank's loan.        To ensure satis-
factory lending terms for subborrowers, subloans would carry maturities from
five to ten years including one to three years of grace. Based on BNDE's
forecast for PACOTE operations, the Bank loan would be committed within
1-1/2 - 2 years after effectiveness (Annex 40).
5.04      Ultimate Beneficiaries.  The proposed loan would provide term
financing to a wide range of small and medium industrial firms with fixed
assets not in excess of 500,000 ORTNs (about US$7.5 million equivalent) after
project implementation,provided they do not belong to an industrial group
with consolidated equity larger than 1.0 million ORTNs 3/. It is expected
that some 250 enterprises would benefit from the loan. The typical recipient
would have total assets of about US$3 million equivalent, and a labor force
of 100-250 workers. Reflecting their current limited access to term financ-
ing, most subborrowers would have a low leverage and could contract rela-
tively large borrowings. Subsectors assisted under the loan would be varied,
with non-metallic minerals, metallurgical, metal-mechanic and food industries
accounting for about one half. Although most subborrovers would request
financing for expansion and mainly produce for local markets, about 25%
would submit export-oriented projects.
5.05      Loan Repayment.  The administrative complexities arising from the
projected large number of subloan accounts and the potential participation
of 22 banks and the two intermediary levels between the Bank and the ultimate
beneficiaries would make the use of a composite amortization schedule im-
practical. The proposed loan would, therefore, have a fixed 12-year maturity
including a 3-year grace period. Portions of the loan repaid by ultimate
beneficiaries but not immediately due to the Bank would be rolled over by
BNDE. Recommitments would not be subject to Bank approval.
1/ Two and a half percent for the North and Northeastern States, including
Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Goias, and the drought area in Minas Gerais.
2/ BNDE's definition of small- and medium-scale industry under its POC
program.



- 30 -
5.06      Subloan Approval Procedures.  Given BNDE's restraint and prudence
in granting free limits to its agents and BNDE's satisfactory technical
capability, the Bank would delegate to BNDE extensive subproject approval au-
thority. Nevertheless, to ensure that the Bank review a limited but repre-
sentative sample of subprojects,two free limits would be set under the
proposed loan: US$2 million equivalent for BNDE's subloans to the five
most experienced development banks, 1/ and US$1 million for the rest. For
both groups the Bank would receive a maximum of two projects per development
bank per calendar year. Notwithstanding the latter limit, however, all
subloans which would be fiaanced out of the loan proceeds in an amount ex-
ceeding US$2 million equivalent would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
Furthermore, given the need for speedy approval procedures, the Bank would
carry out subproject reviews simultaneously with BNDE and inform it about
the outcome no later than 21 days after receipt in Washington. In addition,
the Bank would closely follow up the implementation of the proposed project
and, as appropriate, would conduct ex-post reviews of SDBs' appraisals and
BNDE's subproject reviews during supervision missions. Under this scheme,
the Bank would review a maximum of 40 projects p.a. during the commitment
period of the loan amounting to around 32% of the amount of the loan.
5.07      Procurement and Disbursement.  To ensure that subborrowers meet
their procurement from the most suitable sources BNDE would satisfy itself
during subproject reviews and supervision missions that the SDBs' procurement
procedures continue to be sound and that purchases for individual subprojects
are made with due regard to conomy and efficiency. The bulk of the sub-
borrowers'procuremmts would be aet locally. Domestic manufacturers of
machinery and equipment are adequately diversified, competitive, and not
highly protected. Overseas suppliers of imported capital goods are well
represented in Brazil, and competition among them is keen.
5.08      Based on BNDE's operational forecasts total project costs would
amount to around US$600 million equivalent, of which US$180 million for direct
and indirect foreign exchange requirements. The proposed US$85 million loan
would thus contribute  14%   of total project costs and 47% of its estimated
foreign exchange component. BNDE's participation, including Bank funds, would
amount to US$360 million equivalent (60%) as compared to US$290 million equiva-
lent (40Z) to be provided by SDBs and ultimate beneficiaries. On the basis
of the above and an average subproject cost of US$2.4 million,some 250 sub-
projects would be financed under the project.
5.09      Disbursements would vary depending on whether procured goods would
be purchased locally or abroad. For direct foreign exchange financing Bank
funds would cover 100% of the cif cost of imported machinery and equipment,
while for indirect foreign exchange financing they would cover 20% of BNDE's
1/   Banco de Nordeste do Brasil, Banco do Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais,
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo, Banco de Desenvolvimento
do Parana, Banco Regional de Desenvolvimento do Extremo Sul.



- 31 -
disbursements. Under such arrangements the Bank's average financial assistance
to an Individual subproject would be less than its average foreign exchange
cuapo3ait astimated at 29.5% (Annex 41). 1/
5.10      For direct imports, disbursement procedures would be those applied
under standard Bank DFC operations. For indirect foreign exchange financing,
Bank funds would be periodically disbursed for 20% of BNDE's disbursements
for projects financed by SDBs under BNDE's PACOTE program. Such procedure
would require a periodic statement of expenditures by BNDE. Detailed docu-
mentation on individual subprojects would not be submitted for review to the
Bank but retained by BNDE for inspection by independent auditors and Bank
supervision missions. Because of the two levels of intermediaries involved
and possible delays in subproject processing, the Bank would reimburse BNDE
for expenditures incurred no more than 180 days (instead of the usual 90 days)
prior to the date the Bank receives a subloan for authorization to make with-
drawals. Since BNDE does not yet finance direct imports of machinery and
equipmeiinE under its POC programs, it would be required as a condition of
effectiveness that BNDE publicize, within the industrial sector and the
development banking community, the availability of such financing under the
proposed loan. Steps to be taken by BNDE for that purpose were agreed upon
during negotiations.
C.   Project Benefits and Justification
5.11      Under BNDE's guidance Brazil's state and regional development bank-
ing system has already shown itself to be among the main and most dynamic
instruments of which the federal and state authorities have availed them-
selves for implementing their industrial expansion policies. However, diffe-
rences still exist among SDBs in their project appraisal capability, the
quality and competence of their management and staff, and the soundness of
their institutional and operational arrangements. While the performance of
the larger banks is satisfactory, most of the smaller ones in the least
developed states require upgrading. Owing to its marked institution building
orientation, the proposed project would serve as an important catalyst in
remedying the SDBst most immediate development and operational constraints.
However, the task of designing and implementing measures to upgrade the
system and of tackling the specific problems of individual banks is a complex
and long-term undertaking that requires the guidance of a sound central
institution.
5.12      BNDE is ideally located to perform the above function.  It has been
the principal motivating factor behind the establishment and growth of the
development banking system, is currently its principal supplier of funds and
is familiar with the procedures, operations and problems of the system.
Through A-A, BNDE is in a position to critically follow up and evaluate the
1/   Reflecting the expected composition of subprojects to be financed under
the loan and the peculiarities of SMIs this is lower than the 40% estimate
for Brazilian industry as a whole (para 2.02).



- 32 -
SDBs' performance and assist them on a day-to-day basis. These aspects and
the fact that BNDE is already firmly undertaking an SDB institution building
program reinforce the timeliness and characteristics of the proposed operation.
5.13      Besides supporting BNDE's institution building effort, the project
would assist a segment of industry which traditionally has been hindered by
difficult access to term financing, particularly foreign exchange. With the
majority of the subprojects expected for expansion, ultimate beneficiaries
would be given the opportunity to carry out needed capital investments to
improve production facilities and increase productivity.
5.14      With SMIs requiring less capital investment per job than larger
industries (para. 2.16), the project's expected employment benefits would be
sizeable and should assist in improving income distribution and alleviating
urban poverty. The project would help increase the subborrowers' labor
force by 60% which would correspond to the creation of an estimated 40,000
new jobs at an average investment cost of about US$15,000 equivalent per job.
Modernization of production facilities and techniques would also help upgrade
skills of trained and untrained labor. Finally, support of SMI would contri-
bute to stimulate entrepreneurship, improve the ownership distribution of
productive assets, and foster decentralization of industry.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The Government will:
(i) sake available US$85 million to BNDE on the same financial
terms and conditions as the Bank-loan (paras.5.02 and 5.03);
(ii) not introduce changes in interest rates and the indexing
formula which could affect the project without prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 2.26); and
(iii) take steps prior to December 31, 1976 to cause BNDE and
the Central Bank to coordinate their lending terms and
criteria for investment projects in similar subsectors
and regions, study the problem of equity erosion among
SDBs, and introduce greater uniformity in reporting
and accounting procedures by SDBs (para 2.27).
(b) BNDE will:
(i) except for the technical assistance portion of about
US$157,000 (para 3.15), onlend the proceeds of the



- 33 -
loan to SMIs through the state and regional development
banking system on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (paras. 5.01 to 5.10);
(ii) take steps to ensure the provision to its APA department
of technical assistance, the scope and timing of which
will be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.15);
(iii) not undertake substantial modifications in the scope and
procedures of its PACOTE program without prior consulta-
tion with the Bank (para. 3.17);
(iv) take steps to establish a comprehensive program for
supervising SDBs (para. 3.20) and to implement a Plan
of Action (Annex 39) to upgrade the SDBs' project apprai-
sal and follow-up (paras. 4.07 and 4.08), procurement
(para. 3.21), planning and budgeting (para. 4.11), inter-
nal and external auditing procedures (para. 4.12), port-
folio control and provision policies (para. 4.16), and
reporting to BNDE (para. 4.17); and
(v) starting FY77, annually prepare three-year operational
and financial forecasts covering at least APA's opera-
tions (para. 3.29)
6.02      Special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan would be that:
(i) the PACOTE Regulations be amended to permit foreign
exchange financing for imported machinery, equipment
and permanent working capital (para.5.10 and Annex 14); and
(ii) BNDE has notified the SDBs and has taken appropriate steps,
including press releases, to publicize that foreign exchange
financing will be available under the project for imported
machinery, equipment and permanent working capital (para.
5.10).
6.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$85 million to the Government of Brazil, as outlined in Chapter IV, for a
term of 12 years, including a three-year grace period.






ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
Brazil: Foreign Exchange Component of Manufacturing Investment
1.       According to aggregate calculations, the foreign exchange component
of manufacturing investment in Brazil is estimated for 1974 at about 40%, as shown
by the following breakdown:
Foreign
Percent     Import          Exchange
Share       Component       Component
Composition                  (A)          (B)           (C) = (A) x (B)
Machinery and Equipment            63.0
Domestic                       (38.4)        24.6             9.4
Imported                       (24.6)       100.0            24.6
Construction                       27.0         15.0             4.1
Working Capital                    10.0          10.0            1.0
Total                    100.0                         39.1
2.      The calculations show that, along with a 25% direct foreign exchange
component, investment costs in the manufacturing sector involve an additional
15% in the form of indirect foreign exchange costs. The direct foreign
exchange component includes imported items procured locally and paid for in
local currency. The indirect component refers to goods produced and purchased
locally but which require imported materials in their manufacturing processes.
LCPDF
October, 1975



BRAZIL                                    ANNX 2
Developrment Banking Project
At4UiACr1URIKNU   RUisTw iC.E1i,  1969-1974
(Percentagvs-i
1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
WAIUFACTURING               10.0   11.0   11.3   13.6   15.8    7.1
ikood, b3everages,
-ard To,.':cca               14.0    7.8    2.3   13.3    9.6    4.4
Texti1,: and Clothing       3.5    3.8   14.0    4.1    8.4   -2.9
Paper                        3.5   17.2    6.7    7.0   10.1 *  3.5
Rubber                       5.9   22.0   15.1   13.0   12.4   10.8
Cdeoicala & Plasic          10.9   17.9   13.4   16.3   22.3    8.5
Netll w1'rzy                14.L    5.9   )        12.1    6.3    4.3
Mach:rnery                   8.c    16.5    7.1           1
l15.9   27.8 11.I
Elle-cv ri.cal5.+    7.6 
ikrars;us-- .i-ion.
3'-.S   16.3   17.6   22.5   27.6   19.1
Nto n- i-i ea 1 ' i C
5.-   25.4    5.9   13.7   1 6.6   15.i
S,R.C?:  ~1969-1971  G'1', 197?-1'74 Fundac3o iBGE.
,>ANi-'ACTURIMG EXPORTS
(Us S l,oo0o FOB)
1970        1971        1972        1973        1974
;)--8  +; llic .vinera;f        9,441      17,291      19,613      19,616      '1,967
9  sArF7              112,18.7     67,523    109,819    143,308    219,126
65,045      79,034    106.677    127,796    270,90S
-.:-c:rica' Xl-iPersi          17,1.;4     28,413      5d,810      83,988    183,542
frr.~p3rtatia : 'quipment      14,872      26,340      7'4,751     91.224    191,231
*._~ber ard nSl3:l             24,076      26,73$      39,708      95,990      9g,6o6
_.r-niture                      1,512       2,793       4,136      10,317      13,463
6,244     13,324      25,124      48,499      71,121
Rubber                          4,033       4,680       8,306      11,429      15,387
Leather                        15,54.6    15,560       44,963      40,051      37,835
Chemicals and P2astic         107,353    123,315    194,882    350,914    489,472
PFnr,acy                        8,736       6,330       6,676      12,396      19,153
Perfumery                       8,836      10,809      12,538      20,216      39,427
'Text41ea                      25,783      40,339      77,953    204.126    293,464
Apparel and Shoes              11,373      33,348      83.240    157,796    208,642
Fool                           89,615    150,837    165,002    258,522    311,156
bev.!rage                       1,47'       1,466       2,743       8,937      25,351
Tobacco                         1,378       1,279       1,702       3,956       4,444
Pri-ting ard izublishin;        2,368       5,922      10,343      11,350      13,845
Mi3ce11anea013                  8.337      19,153      24,3?8      38,005      59,859
TOTAL                535,407    679,491  1,048,314  1,738,442  2,599,022
Sou:-ce:   CA' X
.TrPDF
Septembfetr, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
CEBRAE and Technical Assistance to Small and Medium-Scale Industries (SMIs)
1.01      With the purpose of promoting and coordinating the technical assistance
work to SMIs, the Centro Brasileiro de Asistencia Gerencial a Pequena y Media
Empresa (CEBRAE) was created in 1972. CEBRAE is a public corporation sponsored
by BNDE, the Brazilian Association of Development Banks (ABDE), and Financiadora
de Estudios y Projectos SA - FINEP.  Its objectives are to build up the nation-
wide system of management and technical assistance to SMIs, including the spon-
soring of training programs for SMIs' management and staff. It is also engaged
in promoting and coordinating and, in certain cases, undertaking directly studies
in the area of industrial promotion.
1.02      To achieve the above, CEBRAE operatesthrough a system of state agents
(generally one in each state, presently there are 21 in the country). CEBRAE
itself is a rather lean organization with some 20 experts (as compared to around
500 experts for the whole system), which basically assists and coordinates the
work of the agents through courses, seminars, and reviews of the agents' oper-
ational and study programs. CEBRAE, which receives grants from the Secretariat
of Planning and BNDE (its budget for 1975 is of the order of US$16 million equi-
valent), passes on to the agents-a substantial portion of these resources,
allowing them to cover about 60% to 70% of their operating budget. The balance
of resources is provided by state governments, state development banks, and
modest contributions from SMIs and industrial organizations.
1.03      The quality and effectiveness of the CEBRAE system varies considerably,
reflecting different levels of development in the various states, the degree of
Commitment of the local sponsoring entities, and the experience of the local
staff. Some of the agents, such as NAIs in the Northeast were established prior
to CEBRAE's creation and have been providing direct technical assistance to SMIs
for several years. Others, however, have only recently being created. During
1975 the CEBRAE system expects to hold some 1,400 courses which would train some
41,000 small entrepreneurs.
1.04      In forthcoming years apart from broadening its operational programs
through agents (in this respect CEBRAE is expected to receive German bilateral
assistance in the near future) and strengthening the technical and operational
capability of its agents, CEBRAE envisages to strengthen its program of applied
research with the assistance of other Brazilian institutions.   So far, the
studies that have been carried out by the CEBRAE system have been rather unsis-
tematic and unsophisticated covering a broad range of topics such as marketing
studies investment/feasibility studies of individual projects; identification
of managerial weaknesses in specific industrial subsectors; and general indus-
trial surveys. Since substantial resources are currently being devoted to carry
out these studies, it is CEBRAE's intentions to provide in the future guidance
and uniformity in these research activities. To this end, CEBRAE has already
taken two steps. First, it has acted to exercise more control over its agent
study programs by separating allocations for studies from the other budget
allocations it makes to its agents. Second, it is currently embarking on a me-
dium-term study program itself that would help identify more clearly the problems
and potential of SMIs in different environments so as to ultimately allow



ANNEX 3
Page 2
assistance to SMIs with the greatest comparative advantage or potential for
development. CEBRAE and the Bank are currently engaged in a dialogue on these
matters and it is expected that Bank assistance will be requested shortly by
CEBRAE to help it design and implement appropriate SMI research programs.
LCPDF
November 18, 1975



BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
Manufacturing Industry
Wages and Gross Value Added per Employee Accordinig to Size of  Firm (1959 and 1970)
No. of Workers               Wages                  Gross Iralue Added        Average Wage          Average Value Added
Size of Firms                  No. oF Firms       (Thousands)        (Nllions of 1973 Cr$)        Millions  of 1973 Cr$                 $               Per  mploye                  5/6 Percent
(No. of Workers)                    1                 2                        3                                                                            6  93O$173  r             /   ecn
1959     1970     1959      1970         1959        1970            1959         1970        1969       1970          1969         1970           1959        1970
5 - 9                         20,361   27,529    101.4    171.0         499.6       720.5          2,138.2      3,032.2     4,927.0    4,213.5       21,086.8    17,732.7         23.4        23.8
10 - 19                        9,951   15,382    108.8    198.1         654.0    1,136.5           2,538.o      4,652.5    6,011.0    5,737.0        23,327.2    23,485.6         25.8        24.14
20 - 49                        6,398   10,972    165.0    317.7       1,090.4    2,160.3           3,892.1      8,752.6    6,608.5    6,799.8        23, 88.5    27,498.9         28.0        24.7
50 - 99                        2,465    4,331    145.9    290.1       1,027.8    2,247.7           3,503.6      9,186.0    7,044.6    7,748.0        24,013.7    31,664.9         29.3        24.5
100 - 249                      1,572    2,752    206.3    410.9       1,506.9    3,423.5           5,169.7    15,802.8    7,304.4    8,331.7         27,967.5    38,459.0         26.1        21.7
250 - 499                        664    1,027    196.4    348.9       1,517.5    3,105.0           5,694.1    13,574.5    7,726.6    8,899.4         28,992.4    38,906.6         26.7        22.9
500 and over                     468      594    420.4    485.5       3,613.5    4,769.7          13,907.2    20,630.2    8,595.4    9,824.3         33,080.9    42,492.7         26.0         23.1
Total                41,899   62,587  1,344.2  2 222.2        9,909.7   17,563 2          37.442-9    7630.9        7,372.2    7,903.5       27.855.2    34.034.2         26.5        23.2
Source: 1BGE Census
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE's Subsidiaries
1.        BNDE has four fully owned subsidiaries to complement its own opera-
tions, i.e.: (a) FINAME (Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial) created
in 1964 to provide term financing for the acquisition of machinery and equip-
ment; and (b) three equity financing corporations--IBRASA (Investimentos
Brasileiros S.A.); EMBRAMEC (Mecanica Brasileira S.A.) and FIBASE (Insumos
Basicos S.A.), all created in 1974 and who direct their operations to different
industrial subsectors.
2.        In addition, BNDE has a 50% participation in ABICO (Companhia de
Investimento Arabe Brasileira),created in 1975 with Kuwaitian interest to make
equity investments in Brazilian industry.
FTNAME
3.       FINAME has become one of the most important sources of industrial fi-
nancing in Brazil. It finances under three types of programs the acquisition of
machinery and equipment. In constant 1974 Cruzeiros commitments increased
from Cr$235 million in 1965 (about US$30 million) to Cr$3.4 billion in 1974
(about US$460 million). Disbursements totalled Cr$1.8 billion in 1974 (about
US$240 million). FINAME finances both the purchaser and the seller of machinery
and equipment,whatever the size of the firm. Smaller firms, however, get pre-
ferential treatment through lower interest rates under a special program. It
operates indirectly, through an extensive network of agents such as commercial,
investment and development banks.
4.        FINAME has been instrumental in supporting Brazil's capital goods
industries and has lent significantly to such sectors as power and transportation and
for steel industries.    Of the three programs FINAME operates, the Special
Program (Programa Especial) which finances made-to-order machinery and equip-
ment for high priority sectors and subsectors, now account for about half of
FTNAME's commitments. The above include capital good industries, mining,
electronic industries, the power sector, chemical, petrochemical and paper
and celullose industries. Under this program FINAME finances up to 90% of the
price of the goods for up to eight years with interest rates to ultimate bene-
ficiaries varying between 3% and 9% plus monetary correction.   The Long-
Term Program (Programa Longo Prazo) finances machinery and equipment in general,
purchased for other important sectors and subsectors such as intermediate goods in-
dustries, agro-industries and certain service industries such as transportation.
Loans are for up to eight years (up to 80% FINAME participation) with interest
rates to final beneficiaries ranging between 5% and 9% plus monetary correction.
The Medium-Term Program (Programa Medio Prazo), also finances machinery and



ANNEX 5
page 2
equipment but beneficiaries snould be small- and medium-scale industries, i.e.,
industries with annual sales not exceeding about US$4.5 million equivalent. FINAME
finances up to 70% of the price of the goods for up to 5 years at an interest rate
of 12% to the final beneficiary but with a pre-fixed monetary correction of
10% per annum.
5.        BNDE has provided the bulk of FTNAME's resources through loans,
followed by the Central Bank and the National Savings Bank. FINAMEIs equity
at the end of the year 1974 stood at Cr$1.0 billion. A substantial increase
in operations is forecast   for 1976 when commitments should reach about US$1.0
billion.
IBRASA, ENBRAMEC and FIBASE
6.        These three subsidiaries were created in mid-1974 to provide equity
financing for medium-sized Brazilian industrial enterprises--a type of financ-
ing which is difficult to obtain in Brazil. The ultimate objectives of these
subsidiaries include:   (i) strengthening the capital structure of key Brazi-
lian industries thereby allowing them to expand and compete with larger (such
as multinational) enterprises; and,    (ii) providing the basis for companies
to open up their capital to public subscription, thereby assisting the develop-
ment of the Brazilian capital market. Each of the subsidiaries operates by taking
minority equity participations or underwriting    convertible debentures.  They
are oriented to different industrial subsectors: FIBASE to intermediate goods
industries, EMBRAMEC to capital goods industries,and IBRASA to other important
industries. The subsidiaries were capitalized by BNDE with Cr$200 million
(about US$27 million) each and are to receive annual increases for their
capital from BNDE. In due course, i.e., once the enterprises being assisted
are in a strong position,the subsidiaries plan to sell some of their investments
to the private sector through the capital market. During the limited time
they have been operating, the subsidia-ries have already shown to be dynamic
instruments.  By end of the year 1974, IBRASA had committed five operations
totalling Cr$85 million,whereas FIBASE cormtited Cr$393 million and EMBRAMEC
Cr$8 million. BNDE expects to channel  around    Cr$1.5 billion to the three
subsidiaries during 1975.
ABICO
7.        Constituted in 1975, this new BNDE affiliate is a fifty-fifty joint
venture with the Kuwait Group. Capitalized initially at uS$40 million, shares
are held by BNDE and its subsidiaries, IBRASA, EMBRANEC and FIBASE, and the
Kuwait Group that is formed by Kuwait Foreign Trading Contracting and Invest-
ment Comr' y, Kuwait Investment Company, and the Kuwait International Inves-
ment Company.
8.        The company's objectives include making equity investments in Brazi-
lian-owned corporations in selected sectors. Until recently the company had
yet to complete an operation.



BRAZIL
Development Bankina Project
Variation of Gross Financial Savings (1969-74)
(Millions of current Cruzeiros 
1969                  1971                1972              1973               19714
TO        - x                                   $ ~         -
Monetary Assets                       6952   22.3        10,802   17.6        17,609   21.8      2,946   2.3        31,653   22.5
Non-Monetary Assets                   5,739   18.5       20,037   32.6        31,017   38.4    43,458  3h.4        41,458   29.4
Savings deposits                     563    1.9        1,680    2.7        3,952    4.9       6,409   5.1       14,955   10.6
Fixed term deposits                  665    2.1        5,049    8.2        7,571    9.4      8,819   7.0         5,471    3.9
Acceptances                        1,614    5.2        6,833   11.1        6,897    8.5    14,559  11.6          9,730    7.0
Housing bonds                        551    1.8        1,121    1.8        1,887    2.3       1,502   1.2        1,876    1.3
Government bonds and bills         2,346    7.5        5,354    8.7       10,710   13.2    12,169   9.6          9,426    6.7
Workers' Guarantee Fund               1,228    3.9        1,957    3.2         2,706    3.3      3,869   3.1        5,570    4.0
Social Integration Funds                -        -        1,025    1.7        1,957    2.4       5,272   4.2        7,902    5.6
Insurance Cos. Reserves                 192    0.6           85    0.1           287    0.4        305   0.2          470    0.3
Shares aid Debentures (cash issues) 6,120   19.6         17,053   27.8       15,525   19.2    21,287  16.8         24,039   17.1
.Shares and Debentures (ncncash isus) 10,381   33.3        7,709   12.5       13,082   16.2    21,403  17.0         28,938   20.6
Mutual Investment Funds                 473    1.5        2,379    3.9      - 1,446    1.8         342   0.3       -  249    0.2
Fiscal Investment Funds                 106    0.3          355    0.6           111    0.1        460   0.4        1,010    0.7
Gross Financial Savings       31,132  100.0        614-  100.0         80,848  100.0   126,386 100.0        140,791  100.0
Annual Variation %              73.0                N.A.                31.6              56.3                11.4
Source: Central Bank
x
LCPDF
September 1975



A  7
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
Naximm Authorized Interest Rates on Selected Transactions
Deceter, 1974
Central Bank lending to commercial banks
Rediscount                                                18% per annum
Manufactured exports                                       4% "      "
Agriculture                                                8%"
Central Bank lending to investment banks
and acceptance cos.                                           26% "
Commercial Bank lending for:
Commercial transactions up to 60 days                    1.3% per month
i't                  greater than 60 days            1.4 
Personal transactions                                    2.3%  n
Agricultural sector                 1/                    17.0% per annum
Medium and small scale enterprises-                        1.3% per month
Loans with foreign resources (Res. 63)                    FREE (see note below)
Commercial Bank demand deposits                                Wm
Commercial Bank indexed deposited  (return to investor)        27.0% per annum
Acceptance Companies
Consumer loans                                            Variable (average3.30% permcnth)
Bills of Acceptance (return to investor)                       26-29% per armm
(average 2.01% per month)
Investment Banks
Loans in general (Term)                                   36.0% per annuA"
Loans with foreign resources (Res. 63)                    FREE (see note below)
Bills of acceptance  )                                    26-27% per annum
Indexed time deposits)(return t  investor)                27-28.0% per annumd
i/ Enterprises with annual sales not exceeding 70,000 times the highest monthly
minimum wage (Cr$376.80 in December, 1974) i.e., Cr$26.3 million in 1974 (about
US$3.8 million).
2/ One percentage point less without Certificate of Deposit.
3/ Free for loans with a term of more than 24 months and ex-post monetary correction.
NOTE: The average cost to ultimat2 borrower of term foreign financing was around
34.4h p.a. under Resolution 63 in July 1975, as follows: London Interbank
Rate (8.5%), plus premium (2.0%), plus interest withholding tax (0.5S), plus
spread for Brazilian bank (4.0%), plus tax on financial transactions (0.4),
plus expected devaluation (19.0%).
Average Yearly Yield of Selected Securities (1970-74)
Percent Per Annum December to Decer)
1970     1971      1972     1973      1974
Treasury bonds (ORTN)-/                   24.0      27.1     19.6      17.1     39.5
Treasury bills (LTN)V/                     -        24.3     21.1      17.6     19.4
Housing bonda2/                           28.7     32.7      25.2     19.7      38.4
Savings Deposits/                         28.7     32.7      26.9      22.0     4D.9
Indexed term deposit:/                    n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      24.D     21.0
Acceptances                               30.5     30.3      28.1     24.1      22.0
Stocks (IBV index)                       104.2    225.1    -46.0    -12.7       40.5
MItual investment funds                  41.3     65.8    -42.8       1.8       0.4
Fiscal investment funds                   21.8     66.7    -4D.0      -6.7       0.4
Price index (year end to year end)        19.3     19.5      15.7      15.5     34.5
%/ Two-year ORTNQs with 5% coupon interest plus monetary correction.
Three-month LTN's reinvested.
&Three-year housing bonds with 6% coupon interest plus quarterly monetary correction.
Interest of 8% and monetary correction credited quarterly.
J On the basis of ex-ante monetary correction.
Source: Central Bank
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 8
BRAUL
Development Banking Project
Loans Outstanding to the Private Sector by Ultimate Lenders
in the rinancial 1stem;Y 1972-74
(BiTli_o`nFof current CruzeirosY)
1972    %        1973   %        1974   %
Monetary authorities (Central
Bank and Bank of Brasil)                     24.6   16.7    34.4   15.1    61.2   17.6
Conmcrcial Banks                               51.3   34.9    73.9   32.4   109.0   31.3
Finance Companies                              19.5   13.3    35.6   15.6    45.9   13.2
Investment Banks                               19.3   13.1    30.3   13.3    39.7   11.4
National Housing Bank (BNH)                     6.1    4.2       7.4    3.2     9.5    2.7
Housing Credit Cos.                             8.6    5.9    14.5    6.3    24.5    7.0
Savings and Loan Assoc.                         1.4    1.0      2.6    1.1      4.9    1.4
Federal Saving  Bank (CEF)                      7.3    5.0    11.7    5.1    21.0    6.1
State Savirgs Banks                             2.8    1.9      5.1    2.2      7.6    2.2
Nat. Bank for No. Development (UEB)             1.5    1.0      2.3    1.0      7.9    2.3
State  Developmnt Banks                         2.1    1.4      3.7    1.6      6.6    1.9
Nat. Bank for Cooperative Credit                0.2    0.1      0.2    0.1      0.5    0.1
Social Integration Programs (PIS/PASEP)         2.2    1.5      6.7    3.0      9.7    2.8
GRAND TOTAL              146.9  100.0   228.4  100.0   348.o  100.0
Principal Finamcial Assets Hold by the Public
(Billions of current Cruzeiros)
1964     _           1969      %          1974       %
MarErARY                        5.37    88.3         29.66    67.8       125.01    43.4
Currency                        l.14    18.7          5.26    12.0        20.81      7.2
Deand deposits                  4.23    69.6         24.4o    .5.8       104.20    36.2
NON-NDISEAR                    0.71    11.7         14.09    32.2       16 .89    56.6
Savings deposits                  -                   0.89     2.0        29.08    10.1
Fixed term deposits             0.16      2.6         2.07     4.7        31.35    10.9
Indexed                         -1797                        4.4        I7W.-     10.8
Non-indexed                   0.16      2.6         0.13     0.3         0.20      0.1
Acceptances                     0.25      4.1         6.17    14.2        46.30    16.1
Housing bonds                     -                   0.92     2.0         8.39      2.9
Federal bonds (ORTN, LTN)       0.04      0.7         4.04     9.3        47.77    16.6
Other                           0.26      4.3          -         -    -               -
GRAND TOTAL              6.08   100.0        43.75   100.0       1287.90   100.0
/ To the extent possible, data reflects loans made by ultimate lenders and excludes
double-counting. Data for Monetary Authorities, Housing Bank, Nat. Bank for Econ.
Development are net of onlending to other intermediaries.
Source: Central-oank
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BRAZIL DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Intereft Rates and Indexation
1.        The rapid expansion of credit in the last 8 years has not resulted
in a decline in interest rates which, in some segments of the financial market,
are among  the highest in the world.    Farthermore, accelerating inflation
during 1974 (about 34% on a year-end to year-end basis) caused a substantial
increase in nominal interest rates in Brazil in financial assets which carry
ex-post monetary correction. This situation caused savers to shift a significant
portion of their holdings intc,tlese-securities, thereby causing excessive liaui-
dity in the housing financial system and a credit crunch in other sectors.
2.        The shortcomings of a financial system in which only part of the financial
assets are indexed were magnified during 1974. Enterprises that had contracted long-
term financing from BNDE (whose loans are indexed) were particularly hard hit with a
sharply larger debt service. As inflationary expectations did not stem by the end of
1974, business showed reluctance to borrow indexed funds. To regain the confidence
of the business community and spur industrial investment at the end of 1974, BNDE
instituted a scheme whereby all existing loans and those contracted through December
31, 1975 will be subject to a maximun annual monetary correction cf 20%.  Tf the
actual correction (ORTN index) happens to be higher than 20%, the difference in
interest and amortization payments would be refinanced with full interest and
monetary correction and would become payable beginning at the end of the original
amortization period of the loan. The supplementary loan would be amortized in as
many years as necessary in order to limit the size of any payment to the size of
the latest payment under the original loans. This scheme was also adopted by the
Federal Savings Bank (CFF) and the National Housing Bank (BNH). The scheme, in fact,
is straightforward refinancing, to help borrowers to smooth ou-t cash flow problems.
The effective interest rates under the old and new schemes are identical and positive0
Subsequently, however, the Government's decree of August 1, 1975 calls for further
modifications to the loan indexing system for certain high priority industrial sub-
sectors (such as metals  paper, chemicals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and small- and
medium-scale industries). According to this recent decree, loans made during Yi5 975
by federally owned financial institutions, including BNDE, would be subject in 1975
to the previous scheme of paying a maximum 20% monetary correction during the year,
the amount above that limit being capitalized.  However, the decree provides that in
subsequent years and only for loans contracted during 1975, the borrower will pay the
full monetary correction to the financial intermediary, but would be allowed to deduct
the value of the monetary correction exceeding 20% from the amount of income tax due
to the Government in the subsequent year. Government authorities have indicated,
however, that this is a tenporary measure and not a full departure from the monetary
correctic- system. Moreover, it will not apply to BNDE's onlending through state
develcpment banks and investment banks. Should this scheme apply only for 1975 as
indicated, the fiscal costs in 1977 would be very small, amounting to less than 1%
the projected total federal tax revenues.
3.       On September 15, 197A, the Government announced a new change in the
method of calculating the index on which monetary correction is based.  The new
indexing system will be based on an "adjusted" wholesale price index to be published
by the Getulio Vargas Foundation which will replace the presently used wholesale
price index (domestic availability). The new index will exclude the effects of



ANNEX 9
Page 2
"accidentality", i.e., the effects of severe weather or of sharp external price
increases on the domestic price level. The differential in price increases
registered by the new index vis-a-vis the old index will not exceed four percentage
points in any given year. The new index was presented as an improvement over the
previous system on the theory that people should neither be penalized for nor benefit
from the effects of'"accidental" occurrences, such as the frost in July 1975, which,
because of its effect on agricultural production, will have serious repercussions on
domestic prices during the rest of 1975. In fact, the revision was triggered by the
Government's concern about the inflationary feedback of the indexing mechanism itself.
Although the latest move will probably result in a slight reduction in real interest
rates, the interest rate structure in Brazil will still be adequate from the point
of view of resource mobilization as well as of resource allocation since positive
real interest rates will continue to prevail. The revision of the ORTN index does
not constitute a major departure from the principle of indexing.  Mhe new measure
appears to be a reasonable compromise between the Government's efforts to minimize
the inflationary distortions and its attempt to reduce the rate of inflation.
Unlike previous measures with a similar purpose, the latest action presents the
advantage of setting forth very clearly the new rules of the game and particularly
of limiting ex ante the discretionary powers of the Government in the calculation
of the monetary correction.
LCPDF
November 20, 1975



ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE's FIPEME Program for SIa's
Until mid-1974 when the POC program was created, BNDE's principal
form of financial assistance to SMIs and accordingly, of onlending to SDBs,
was the FIPEME program.  This program was partly sponsored by IDB and also
funded by KfW and AID. IDB made two loans to BNDE of US$27 million and
US$22 million, respectively, in 1964 and 1967. Both these operations have
been fully disbursed under the first round and the program is now being
phased out in view of the new POC Program. FIPENE financed
the acquisition of domestic and imported fixed assets in connection with the
installation and expansion of SNIs, the latter being defined as having
fixed assets, including the amount of the proposed investment, not exceeding
Cr$30 million (at the time about US$5 million). BNDE participated with up
to ho% of total project costs. A substantial number of industrial sub-
sectors were excluded from financing. Initially, BNDE undertook FIPEME
operations directly but, because of the growth in business and staff
constraints, it relied increasingly in more recent years on agents to whom
it extended lines of credit. The demand for FIPEME funds was generally
outstripped the availability of funds,causing BNDE at times to withhold
approvals. A recent evaluation on the performance of the program in
more recent years showed that it was relatively successful in meeting its
goals.  The average subloan was around US$290,000, and the typical enterprise
financed had between 100 and250 workers. More than half of the subloans
were directed to enterprises with less than US$1 million equivalent of fixed
assets. The evaluation also showed that subloans tended to finance fairly
labor intensive industries, average fixed assets per worker before the loan
being of the order of US$4,ooo.  However, 78% of the loans were for enter-
prises located in the south and southeast of the country. Overall, FIPEME
provided finance in a socially desirable way.
LCPDF
October, 1975






BRAZIL                                                                              AIX
DEVELoPMENT BANKING PROECT
BNDE SUMMARY ORGANIZATION CHART
F.e. _R-q 
DASE - Sc*A.Ae
FlYASt - Sc. Albe, CoAbd.                            Pc.pdec Hdod   Ac.Megc
IBF ASA -D rPl, t  m                                   n*   <S  bn                                                 a
FUtRAMEC  DettO                                                                                                   Drrcoc
'  H                                H                         < A-                                 ,  A
H~~pej Posited                                P
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I.
A                                                                                   AdcEc,ececce SeAc mc cc,, A
Diiecic,Allcpec a  ~ ~ ~   Iiidcetcd Pccrecte AtRe  Specie t,c,.prp Acebe AcM                                        Pipez






ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Higher Management
MANAGEMENT COUNCIL
Year of
Name                                  Appointment          Principal Present Position
Arnaldo Rodrigues Barbalho               1974              Secretary General of Ministry
of Mining and Ehergy
Casimiro Antonio Ribeiro                 1974              Director FINASA Bank
Helio Marcos Penna Beltrao               1972              Director ULTRA Group
Heraldo Alves Costa                      1973              Planning Secretariat
Jose Carlos Soares Freire               1972               Secretary General of the
Ministry of Finance
Karlos Heinz Richbieter                  1974              President Federal Savings Bank
Marcilio Marques Moreira                 1974              Unigo de Bancos Group
Mauricio Schulman                        1974              President National Housing Bank
Paulo Vieira Belotti                     1974               Secretary General, Ministry
of Incdstry and Commerce
Roberto Cavalcanti de Alburquerque      1974               Superintendent of Institute
for Applied Economic Research
(Secretariat of Planning)
BOARD OF MANAGING DIRECTORS
Year of           Professional
Appointment       Background         Past Position
PRESIDENT
Marcos Pereira Vianna              1970            Engineer           Secretary General
Ministry of Planning
DIRECTORS
Affonso Jose Guerreiro             1972            Lawyer             BNDE's Staff
de Oliveira
Alberto dos Santos Abade           1972            Statistician       BNDE's Staff
Gilvan de Oliveira Azevedo         1974            Economist          Ex-Advisor to President
of Bank of Brazil



ANNEX   12
Page 2 of 2
BNDE: Higher Management (contd.)
Year of            Professional
Appointment        Background         Past Position
DIRECTORS (contd.)
Luiz Carlos Soares de Souza         1975            Engineer           BNDEts Staff
Rodrigues
Roberto Procopio de Lima Netto    1974              Engineer           Ex-Director DENASA
Investment Bank
EXECUTIVE MANAGERS
Amaury Jose Leal Abreu                              Engineer           BNDE's Staff
Armando Fabiano Casado de                           Economist          BNDE's Staff
Alencar
Leyre Ponti                                        Lawyer              BNDE's Staff
LCPDF
September 1975



BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Staffing Situation
Area of Operations
BNDE                                           With Agents (APA)
Staff on Hand        Staff on Hand
New Recruits            Terminations              at end of  Year        at end of year
1972   1973   1974       1972   1973   1974       1972   1973   1974             1974
Management                          18      15     11          2       8      4       126    133    140              12
Professional staff                  33      48    147          7      35     23       208    221    345               33
Economists                         4     11      36          -      5       4        51     57      89              9
Engineers                          4     11      27          2      7       4        50     54      77              6
Business Administrators            -       -      2          1       -      -         9      9      11              -
Financial analysts                 -       4     21          -       3      2        45     46      65              5
Lawyers                            8       4     23          2      5       5        44     43      61              6
Other                             17      18     38          2      15      8         9     12      42               7
Other Staff                         13      11    168          3      16     17       353    348    499              49
TOTAL               64      74    326         12      59     44       687    702    984               94
Source: BNDE
LCPDF
September 1975
a



ANNE'K 14
Page 1
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
Principal Characteristics of BNDE's Joint
Operations Program (POC)
Objectives
1.     The POC program envisages:
(a)  the development and strengthening of financial intermediaries;
(b) the stimulation of economic development, notably through small
and medium scale enterprises; and
(c)  the reduction of regional income imbalances.
2.     To achieve this, BNDE will onlend funds to institutions that have been
previously approved as agents, with the purpose of financing the establishment,
expansion and modernization of industrial, commercial or services projects,
in particular small and medium size enterprises. To be eligible to POC as-
sistance enterprises have to comply with the following:
(a) The majority of share capital of the enterprise has to belong
directly or indirectly to individuals who are residents and are
domiciled in Brazil.
(b) Control of the enterprise cannot be directly or indirectly in
the hands of public enterprises or financial intermediaries
associated with the POC program.
(c) Be engaged in an economic activity which is considered by BNDE
of interest to economic development.
Types of Operations
3.     Three different types of operations can be undertaken under the POC
program, i.e.,:
PROGRAMA operations, PACOTE operations, PROJETO operations.
PROGRAMA Operations
4.     This type of operation supports projects of similar nature, complementary
and/or independeuit, from the point of view of raw materials used or goods and
services produced. PROGRAMAS should have the objective of expanding productive
capacity in micro-regions and/or sectors which have a significant regional
comparative advantage.
5.     PROGRAMA Operations finance (i) the acquisition of Brazilian manufactured
fixed assets; and (ii) permanent working capital.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
6.    To be eligible under this subprogram, financial intermediaries will
have to submit to BNDE a subsector feasibility study which should include
the following:
(a) a list of enterprises that would be beneficiaries under the
subprogram, including a short description and evaluation of
the enterprises and projects, representing not less than 60%
of the global amount of the program;
(b) demonstration of the feasibility of the program in terms of
the availability of inputs and the regional and national supply
and demand of the goods or services to be produced;
(c) economic importance of the subsector in the context of the
regional economy, indicating quantitdively and qualitatively
the objectives that are expected to be attained.
7.    Following BNDE's approval of the program, the agents will be granted
subproject approval free limits. Subprojects above those free limits would
have to be sent to BNDE for approval. Under the PROGRAMA, operations inter-
mediaries undertake to:
(a)  constitute a special group to appraise and follow-up subproJects
under the program, including the preparation of supervision
reports;
(b) establish, when necessary, a technical assistance agreement with
the CEBRAE agent or other state institutions qualified to provide
technical assistance to the subborrowers.
8.    Up to 5% of the credit line can be directed to finance technical as-
sistance including training.
PACOTE Operations
9.     This subprogram envisages supporting projects not necessarily in the
same sector or micro-region, provided the project has the purpose of esta-
blishing, expanding or re-locating small ard medium scale enterprises.
10.   To be eligible under this subprogram, total fixed assets of the enter-
prise,including the amount of the proposed investment, cannot exceed the
value of 500,000 ORTN (presently about US$7.5 million).  Moreover, the enter-
prise should not be part of a business group which has a total equity in
excess of one million ORTNs. Finally, enterprises will have to have a prin-
cipal activity that falls in the list of activities approved by BNDE (page 5
of th_s Annex).
11.   In addition to the financing of Brazilian-manufactured fixed assets
and permanent working capital, PACOTE operations will finance pure working
capital for industrial enterprises located in the Northeast and North.
It will also finance in special cases mergers and acquisitions and the re-
scheduling of debts, provided that the enterprise resulting from the merger
is a viable undertaking.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
PROJETO Operations
12.   PROJETO Operations envisage financing large enterprises which exceed
in size the above 500,000 ORTNs limitation and where the prospective BNDE
loan is not less than 150,000 ORTNs (about 2.3 million).
13.    Apart from the financing of Brazilian manufactured fixed assets and
permanent working capital, the program can also finance mergers and projects
that envisage managerial improvements.
OTHER CHARACTERISTICS OF POC
Financial Intermediaries
14.    Previously accredited private investment banks and state and regional
development banks, including state commercial banks with a development
portfolio in states that do not have a full-fledged development bank.
15.    To become accredited the financial institution has to submit to BNDE
a report showing that it has the technical, operational,managerial and
financial capability to undertake POC operations.
Free Limits
.16.    Subproject approval free limits have been granted to the intermediaries
for PACOTE Operations. Above the free limits, all subprojects have to be
submitted to BNDE for approval prior to commitment by the agent. Development
banks have been classified into three different free limit groups, according
to their financial condition, operational capability and requirements. Five
banks have free limits of 65,000 ORTNs (about US$975,000); seven banks have
30,000 ORTNs (about 450,000); and eight have 20,000 ORTNs (about US$300,000).
Private investment banks have free limits ranging between 45,000 ORTNs
(675,000) for the five best and 20,000 ORTNs (US$300,000) for the weakest
banks.
Credit Lines
17.   Under all three types of operations after appropriate analysis and
review, BNDE will commit a line of credit to the agent which should be utilized
within a pre-determined period (PACOTE in 6 months). In August 1975, a total
of Cr$2.1 billion for PACOTE Operations was committed by BNDE to 37 development
and investment banks, plus a reserve credit line of Cr$591 million for the
banks. The largest single allocation was Cr$563 million to BNDE, smaller
SDBs were allocated on average Cr$25 million.
Collateral
18.    Intermediaries are required to obtain real guarantees from subborrowers,
not less than 130% the amount of the subloan.
Loan Maturities and Grace Period
Op. PROGRAMA - up to 10 years, including up to 3 years grace.
Op. PROJETO - up to 10 years, including up to 3 years grace.
Op. PACOTE _ as follows:



ANNEX 14
Page 4
Fixed Assets and Permanent Working Capital - up to 8 years
including up to 2 years grace.
Pure Working Capital - up to 3 years, including up to 1 year
grace.
19.    All operations should have a minimum grace period of 3 months.
Principal and interest is repayable monthly after the grace period and in-
terest is repayable quarterly during the grace period.
Commitment Fee
20.    Agents will pay BNDE 0.1% per 30 day period on the undisbursed portion
of credit line.
Indexation
21.    All relevant aspects of loan agreements are to be expressed in ORTNs.
Interest Rates, Spreads and Maximum BNDE Financing
Max. BNDE     Interest to    Intermediary
Financing     Subborrowers       Spread
Region I               80%             3%            2.5%
PROGRAM Operations   Region II               70%             5%            2.0%
Region III            60%              6%            2.0%
PACOTE Operations    Region I F.A.           80%             3%            2.5%
W.C.         80%              5%           2.0%
Region II              70%             5%            2.0%
Region III            60%              6%            2.0%
PROJETO Operations   Region I               80%      (
Region II             60%      ( To be defined for each
Region III            60%      ( operation
Region I:         Para, Acre, Maranhgo, Piaui, Ceara, R.G. do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso,
Goias and the Minas Gerais drought area.
Region II:        Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Paraiba, Santa Catarina,
Rio Grande do Sul.
Region III:       Sao Paulo.
Disbursement Procedures
23.    Within the Agent's free limit:
Agent submits to BNDE form containing brief description on the
subborrower and subproject and a form containing the proposed
disbursement schedule. Disbursements can be made in one or
several payments, as appropriate.



ANNEx Al
Page 5
Above the Agent's free limit:
Prior to the agent's commitment, BNDE receives and reviews the
agent's appraisal of the project (according to BNDE's ap-
praisal format). Upon BNEE's approval the agent will submit to
BNDE their loan agreement with the subborrower and a form con-
taining the proposed disbursement schedule.
Non-Financiable Activities
24.    Industrial, cormercial and services activities listed below are
not automatically financable under PACOTE Operations. The list is not
intended to be rigid. A special request and justification is, however,
required for financing excluded activities. Excluded activities can be fi-
nanced under other BNDE direct or indirect programs. The negative list was
made up so as not to encourage projects in areas where there is overcapacity,
predominance of large and/or foreign firms or where there is limited knowledge
of the sector. The activities excluded are:
Industry: Mineral extraction (except precious stones), cement,
glass, steel, non-metallic metallurgy, turbines, internal
combustion motors, tractors, electrical parts for vehicles,
electrical motors, radios, televisions, telecommunications
equipment, conputers, calculators, boats, automobiles,
railroad equipment, airplanes, bicyles, motorcycles,
domestic appliances, celulose, paper, pressed wood boards,
tires, explosives, synthetic resines, petroleum sub-
products, fertilizers, plastic laminates, textiles, coffee,
sugar, alcohol, beer, tobacco.
Commerce
and Services:
Supermarkets, drugstores, bookstores, distributors of
agricultural equipment, workshops for boats, airplanes,
industrial, agricultural and road construction machinery.
LCPDF
October, 1975



ANNEX 15
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Domestic Borrowings as of December 31, 1974
Amount       h.nount                  Monetary        Interest
Borrowed   Drawn-down    Balance   Correction           Rate
1. MCNETARY RESERVE               3,764.78   3,764.78           _
CY 1971                        410.40      410.40 o
CY 1972                        948.17      948.17          -                       5% semi-an.
CY 1973                      1,039.68   1,039.68           -
CY 1974                      1,366.53   1,366.53           -
2.  CENTRAL BANK REGIONAL
PROGRAMS                       128.00       95.00        33.00
PRODOESTE                       5-00       5-000          -     Isento          4.75% semi-an.
PROTERRA                        45-00       30.00        15.00   5% semi-an.    1.5%   "   "
PROVALE                         15.00       15.00          -     Isento          4.75%  it  it
PROTERRA                        18.00         -          18.00   5% semi-an.    1.5%   "   "
3. AGREEHNT!S WITH CENTRAL
BAEK                            409.02      393.75        15.27
AID 512-L-034                   10.40       10.40          -     5% semi-an.    1.25% semi-an.
AID 512-L-055 (umNDEPRO)         2.00        2.00          -     5%    " "       0.5%   "   "
RFF  F-406                       8.00        8.00          -     5%  "   "       3% semi-an.
VII Wheat Agreement             11.00       11.00          -     5%  ft  "       3%  "    "
VIII Wheat Agreement            15.44       15.17         0.27   5%  "   "       2%  "    "
IX Wheat Agreement              16.71       16.71          -     US$             1.625%semi-an.
Canadian Wheat Agreement        20.47       20.47                US$             1.625%  "
Tecmtclal Reserves of Ins.      459.0       30-00        15.00   5% semi-an.    3.75%   i
Companies                     280.00      280.00          -     ORTN            2.75%   "
4.  BANCO DO BRASIL AGREEMENTS      472.09      472.09          -
BNDE/PASEP (Agree.8/22/73)      68.50       68.50          -     ORTN            1.75% Quart.
BNDE/PASEP - Steel Program    403.59       403.59          -     ORTN            1.75%   "
5. AGREENTS WITH FEDERAL
SAVINGS BANK (CEF)           1,021.10   1,021.10           -
BNDE/CEF - PIS 4/10/72         160.00      160.00          -     ORTN            1.7% Quart.
BNDE/CEF - PIS 7/11/73         200.00      200.00          -     ORTN            1.7%
CEF - Conte 12/19/73                               &
Onlending M. Wallig           71.10       71.10          -     ORTN            1.7%
BNDE/CEF - PIS (1/31/74)       590.00      590.00          -     ORTN            1.7%   "
-6.  AGREEENTS WITH THE FEDERAL
HOUSING BANK (BNH)            3,435.40   2,308.83    1,126.57
BNH/FIMACO - 4/17/72.          319.38      304-30        15.08   UPC             2%      -Quart.
BNH/Fixed Assets - 12/19/73   654.30       149.87       504.43   UPC             2%
BNH/Turism  --12/19/73         261.72        4.66       257.06   UPC             2%
BNH/ FGTS P-250/74 (Steel
Program)                     700.00      700.00        -       ORTN            3.5% semi-an.
BNH/FCTS - PRESI/DF-1392/74
BACED                      1,500.00   1,150.00        350.00   ORTN            3.0% semi-an.
7. ONLENDING AGREZMENTS           2,869.39   2,519.35        390.09
PASEP - Repasse              1,169.63   1,169.63          -      ORTN            Min. 3% p.a.
PIS   - Repasse              1,089.32   1,089.32          -      ORTN            Min. 3% p.a.
FINAME                         365.64      260.39      105.25   ORTN
FINEP                          150.00       -           150.00    -                 -
FDPI                            94.80       -            94.80   ORPTN            2% & 4%
9.  OTIE! RESOURCES                   56-95      25.45        31.50
PU!:AP'                         11.10       11.10         -        -                 -
Mortgage Certificates           45.85       '4.35        31.50   UPC             1.467% Quart.
TOTAL               12.156.73  10.600.34    1,556.39
Source: BNDE
LCPDF
September, 1975



BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Foreign Currency Borrowings as of Dec. 31. 1974
Amount
Amount Borrowed             Drawn-down       Maturity   Grace Period   Int. Rate        Date of
Orizinal Currency   US$1000 Equiv,   US$o000 Equiv.   Years           Years        % p.a.         Agreemert
IDB                       US$   4,000,000          4,000             4,o00           20        12               1.25          12-22-64
IDB                       US$  27,000,000         27,000            27,000          15          4               5.75          12-23-64
IDB                       US$  12,962,710         12,963            12,963          15          3.5             6.50          09-26-67
IDB                       US$   8,700,000          8,700             8,700          15          4               3.25          09-26-67
IDB                       US$  40,000,000         40,000               -             15         5               8.00          02-28-74
KfW                       DM   27,000,000          9,310             9,310           20         5.5             5.50          08-31-65
KfW                       DM    8,000,000          2,759             2,759           20         5.5             5.50          11-25-66
KfW                       DM   40,000,000         13,793            12,948           25         7.5              5.50         05-19-69
KfW                       DM   27,084,000          9,339             8,615           30         7.5             5.50          11-24-70
KfW                       DM   13,000,000          4,483             3,881          30          7               5.50          06-22-71
KfW                       DM   26,000,000          8,966               -             30        10.7             5.50          04-29-74
AID (lst. Agreement)      Cr$   1,510,815            203               203          40          4               5.00          11-16-55
AID (2nd.    "      )     Cr$   3,126,476            420               420          40          4               4.00          12-31-55
AID (2rd.   "      )      Cr$   5,082,219            683               683          40          4               4.00          12-31-55
AID (2th.    "      )     Cr$   1,341,366            180               180          40          4               4.00          12-31-55
AID (3th.    "      )     Cr$  11,705,574          1,574             1,574          40          4               4.00          08-23-62
AID (4th.    "     )      Cr$   6,821,569            917               917          40          4               4.00          10-04-62
AID (5th.    "      )     Cr$  27,497,100          3,698             3,698          40          4               4.00          11-26-64
AID (512-L-082)           US$  25,000,000         25,000            15,257           15         5(upto 8-6-76 = 2.00          1:-03-71
(after 8-6-76 = 3.00
AID (512-L-083)           US$  14,000,000         114,000           10,026           20         5(upto  5-29-78 = 2.00        11-08-71
(after 5-29-78 = 3.00
E1CIMBANK of U.S.A.       US$  15,702,266         15,702            15,702           15         3               5.00          06-01-59
Danmark Natl. Bank      DANKR  21,000,000          3,465             3,465           15         3                 1EHIL       07-08-66
Credit National            FF  37,500,000          7,878             7,394            5.5       0.5              3.50         o6-o6-69
Banque BEropeenne de Crd. US$  25,000,000         25,000            25,000            7         3 Libor +        1.50         08-03-72
Manf. Hanover Trnst Co.  U0$  25,000,000          25,000            25,000           10         3 Libor +        1.00         12-29-72
The Chase Manh. Bank      uS$  10,000,000         10,000            10,000           10         7.5(upto 1980 - 8.25          03-02-73
(after 1980-Libor + 1.00
Chase Manh. Tr. Corp. Ltd.US$  15,000,000         15,000            15,000           10         3.5(upto 4-10-76-Libor +0.5  03-02-73
(after"  "  "=Libor =0.5
Bank of Tokyo             US$  25,000,000         25,000            25,000           15         6               8.25          o4-23-73
Sumitomo Bank Ltd.        US$  50,000,000         50,000            50,000           12         6  Libor +      o.625         09-10-73
EXMBANK of Japan           Y 5.000,CO9,000        18,116             3,202           10         3.5              6.5          11-12-73
Libra Bank Ltd.           US$  50,000,000         50,000            50,000           12         5(upto 1978=Libor +o.625
(after 1978 =Libor +0.750   04-18-74
Morgan Guaranty Trust     US$  40,000,000         40,000            40,000           12         5.5(upto 1980=Libor +0.875   09-09-74
(after 1980 =Libor +1.00
Total                   -            473,1149           392,897           -          -
To be reimbursed in Cruzeiro equivalent.
LCPDF
September, 1975



ANNEX 17
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Operations According to Subprograms
Actual 1974 - Forecast 1975
(Millions of- current Crozeiros)
1974                   1975
Approvals   Disbursements  Disbursements
SUBPROGRAM
BASIC INPUTS                                7.575        3.505           9,800
Mining                                      318           52             400
Steel                                     3,117       2,293            4,950
Non-ferrous metallurgy                        -          41              250
Chemical and petrochemical                1,181         579            1,500
Fertilizers                                 773           55             700
Paper and pulp                            1,553           29           1,200
Cement                                      463         286              200
Onlending to FIBASE                         170         170              600
BASIC EQUIPMENTS                            1.757       1.381            4,750
Capital goods *(made to order)              234         141              75o
Capital goods (standardized)                  8            1             150
Onlending to FINAME                         750         750            2,800
Onlending to EMBRAMEC                       200         200              350
Other equipments and parts                  565         283              700
STRENGTHENING OF BRAZIIJAN PRIVATE
ENTERPRISE                                  3,713       3,020            4,350
Modernization and reorganization
of industries (FMRI)                     1,356         877            1,000
Working capital financing (PROGIRO)         265          256             550
Onlending to IBRASA                         199          199             550
Joint operations - medium op.               896          265           1,000
Joint operations - small op.                680          640           1,000
FIPEME and PEB (programs being phased out) 317           783             250
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT                          455           23             500
Subsector onlending programs                455           23             500
Development of new economic centers           -            -
INFRASTRUCTURE                              3.287        1. 262          2, 250
Transport corridors                       2,204         619              900
Roads                                       363          212             250
Other subsectors                            720         431            1,100
T xHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT                      93          174             250
Supply of technology                         91          143             150
Demand for technology                         2           31             100
BASIC CONSUMPTION                             383          399             250
Foodstuffs                                   19          29              100
Medical Supplies                              -            -              30
Distribution                                364         370              120
OTHER PROJECTS                                941                        1,000
GRAND TOTAL             18,203      10.5?5           23,150
Source: BNDE
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 18
BRAZIL
DeveloDment Banking Project
BNDE and FINAHE: Sectoral and Regional Distribution of Loans Approved-/- 1969-74
(Millions of constant 1974 Cruze 1i6s/)
Growth Rat
1969    %         1970     1971       1972       1973      1974      %      (%) 1969-
SECTORS
Public Utilities                      965.3   35.0       932.7   722.9    1,276.1       892.8   3,306.9   12.5        28.o
Mining                                  9.9    0.4         6.7      6.1      120.4       20.7     318.3    0.3        26.0
Manufacturing Industry              1,526.2   55.2    1,892.1 2,842.8    3,745.0   5,244.8  12,469.2   73.4           52.0
Agriculture and Agro-Industry         134.9    4-9       194.1   516.5       287.2      653.0     639.5    9.2        36.o
Education and Research                119.2    43        108.2   185.5        68.2      314.4      92.6    4.4        -5.3
Other                                   5.4    0.2         7.0      3.5        7.1       17.8      58.4    0.2        60.0
Total                       2.760.9  100.0    3,1440-8 4,277-3    5,504.6   7,143.5  16,884.9  100.0          44.0
FINAMEI/                      614.6              755.8 1,326.2    1,720.0   2,542.0   3,455.9    -            41.5
GRAND TCTAL                 3,375.5            3,896.6 5,603.5    7,224.6   9,685.3  20,340.8                 43.0
/ Excludes guarantee operations.
/ Adjusted according to Brazil's General Price Index (DiBponibilidade Interna - FGV)
j Primarily for manufact1uring industry.
BNDE AND FINAME:  Regional Distribution of Loans. Approvedc
(Millions of constant 1974 Cruzeiros)V
Growth Rat
1969     %       1970      1971       1972       1973      1974      %       (%) 1969-'
REGIONS
North                                 88.5      2.5     43.2      42.5       53.1      169.4      165.0    0.8         11.6
Northeast                            558.7    16.6    484.3    533.0         922.7   1,900.5   2,614.7   12.9          29.0
Southeast                          1,955.0    57.9  2,503.1  3,663.5    3,9144.8   5,700.5  11,704.0   57.5            35.0
soutl                                366.0    1114  2,503.1  1,115.3    1,476.3   1,648.9   3,301.8   16.3             43.0
COnter-West                          155.2      4.6     55.7     67.6      h6h.0      203.14     350.2    1.7         114.q
Inter-Regional                       235.0      7.0    137.2    181.6        393.6     462.6   2,205.1   10.8         145.0
GRAND TOTAL                     3,375.4   100.0  3,896.6  5,603.5    7,224.5   9,685.3  20,340.8  100.0             43.0
J Excludes guarantee operations.
/ Adjusted according to Brazil's General Price Index (Disponibilidade Interna - FGV).
LCPDF
September 1975



B RA Z I L
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
BNDE AND SUBSIDIARIES:  Summary of Operations
Loans and Equity Participations Approved According to Programs and Funds
(Millions of constant 1974 Cruzeiros)
Average Annual
Growth (%.)
1969          %          1970        1971             1972                 1973                 1974               .           1969  -    1974
Value                    Value       Value      No.        Value      No.       Value      No.       Value
I. BNDE
A. Programs and Funds
Economic Reconstruction Fund - PRE                           1947           70.7      2 100        2.804      83        3,828      139        5 012     196       13.299        78.8             47.0
Conventional Operations                                                                           2,475      33         2,036      51        3,207       -       10,488        62.1
Equity Participation and Underwritings                                                              247      10          228        6           19      10          201         1.2
Specific onlanding                                                                                    8       4            59      24          529      -           724         4.3
Prog. for Marketing Modernization - PMRC                                                             24       6           157       6           79      -            30         0.2
Prog, for Onlending to Development Banks - PEB                 -            -           -           -        12           769      19          382      -            70        0.4
Prog. for Basic Industry in Northeast - PIB-NE                 -            -           -           -         -            -       10          440      -           462         2.7
Prog. for Agroindustries Iorth & Northeast - Proterra          -            _                                 1            12       5           48      _           130         0.2
Prog, for the S. Francisco River Valley - PROVALE              -            -           -           -         -            -        1           19                   -           -
Frog. for Develop. Center-West Region - Prodoeste              -            -           -           -         2            74      -           -
other!/                                                        -            -           -            50      15          493       17          289      -         1,294         7.7
Small and Medium Scale Ind. Program - FIPEME                    510          18.5        514          693       -           922      -           809       _          247         1.5
Joint Operations Program (POC)                                   -                                     -        -           -        -           -       762        1,576         9.3
Prog, for Working Capital Finan. - Fungiro-Progiro              122           4.4        252          205      14           222       6          112      19          265         1.6
Fund for Modernisation of Industry - FMRI                        -                                    359      23           449      32          876      53        1,356         8.0
Fund for Technological Development - FUNTEC                     100           3.6        104          183      30            68      99          315      22           93         0.5
Technical Assistance to SMI's - CEBR4E                           -                        -            -        -           -         1           13        1          20         0.1
Fund for Capital Market Development - FOMCAP                     -                        -            -        _           _         1            9       2           29         0.2
Miscellaneous Operations                                         77           2.8        169                                                     -         -           -
Sub-Total                              2,756         100.0      3 139           -      190        5j489        -        7*146       -       16,885       lW O              44.0
B.   Onlending to Subsidiaries                                        -                       149          250                   577      _           516                1.319
Total BNDE                                -                     3,288        4,494                 6,066                7,662               18,204
C.   BNDE Guarantee Operations
Ovn responsibility and in name of Brazilian Treasury        1,216                      963          965                   847                  524                2,636                         16.8
ri. SUBSIDIARIES
A.  Agency for Industrial Financing - FINAME                         615                       756       1,318  11,283         1,634  10,008        2,543   9,749        3,456                         41.5
B.   Raw Materials Financing - FIBASE                                 -                        -            -       -            -                    -         -          393
C.  Mechanical Industry Financing - EMBRAIIEC                                                  -            -       -            -                    -         -            8
D.   Brazilian Investments - IBRASA                                   -                        -            -       -            -                    -         _           85
Total Subsidiaries                       615                      756        1,318  11,3P3         1,634  10,008        2,543       -        3,942                         45.0
1/ Includes lending agreements with Central Bank, Housing Bank USAID, IDB, Eximbank Japan, FINEP, etc.
Source: BNDE Annual Reports and Bank Calculations.
- Not available
Note: Because of rounding,figures in this table may not correspond exactly to others.



ANNEX 20
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE:  Total Onlending Approved to Development, Mixed and Investment Banks 1972-74
(Millions of current Cruzeiros)
1972       1973         197h
BANKS
BASA (Fed. Amazon)                          30.0         4.0          17.0
BEA (State Amazon)                          15.0        15.0          42.2
BDM (Maranhao)                              12.6        30.0           9.2
BEPI (Piaui)                                 5.0         5.0           -
BANDECE (Ceara)                             63.0        87.4          80.0
BDRN (R.G. do Norte)                         5.0        13.0          12.0
BEPEP (Paraiba)                             25.0         5.0           4.9
BANDEPE (Pernambusco)                       30.0        69.2          15.9
BEAL (Alagoas)                              30.0        27.4           6.5
BES (Sergipe)                                5.0        15.0           7.9
DESENBANCO (Bahia)                          80.5        64.1          17.5
BNB (Federal Northeast)                      2.5        20.0          46.4
BANDES (Espirito Santo)                     4o.o        38.0          24.0
BDMG (Minas Gerais)                        136.2       141.7         105.0
BANCODERJ (Rio de Janeiro)                  20.0        19.0           9.9
BANCOPEG (Guanabara)                        15.0        91.6           9.1
BADESP ((Sio Paulo)                         66.2       175.5         129.7
BADEP (Parana)                              50.0        80.0         696.1
BRDE (Regional South)                      412.2       307.5         590.9
BESC (Santa Catarina)                        -          20.0          26.0
BEKAT (Mato Grosso)                           -          -
BEGO (Goias)                                 5.0         5.00          _
BANESPA (State S. Paulo)                     -           -            30.0
TOTAL DEVELOPMENT AND MIXED BANKS       1,048.2    1,233.4        1,88o.2
TOTAL INVESTMENT BANKS                    195.0       154.0         771.1
GRAND TOTAL                 1,243.2    1,387.4        2,651.3
LCPDF
September 1975



BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE - Actual (1972-1974) and Preliminary Forecasts (1975-1978)
of Overall Approvals, Commitments and Disbursements
(Millions of current Cruzeiros through 1974 and constant July 1975 Cruzeiros thereafter)
1972        1973        1974             1975         1976        1977         1978
APPROVALS AND COMMITMENTS
Direct Operations               2,467       4,150      14,233          (
( 21,540      31,360      28,870       34,520
Onlending to Subsidiaries/        390         400       1,319          (
Onlending to Development
and Investment Banks         1,243       1,387       2,651             4,160        4,840       9,430      12,380
Total            4,l00       5,937      18,203            25,700 2/   36,200 2/   38,300 2/   46,900 2/
DISBURSEMENTS
Direct Operations               1,835        3,098      7,455          (
( 19,550      27,200      29,700       32,600
Onlending to Subsidiaries]        390         400       1,319          (
Onlending to Development
and Investment Banks           962       1,000       1,801             3,600        4,800       7,800       10,900
Total            3,187       4,498     10,575             23,150      32,000       376500      432500
Source: BNDE and Bank Estimates.
1/ FINAME, IBRASA, EMBRAMEC, FIBASE
2/ Bank estimates
LCPDF
September 1975



BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Area of Operations with Agents
Onlending to Development and Investment Banks:  Approvals  Commitments and Disbursements
Actual (1972-1974) Forecasts (1975_1978)
(Millions of current Cruzeiros through 1974 and constant
July 1975 Cruzeiros thereafter)
1972    1973    1974               1975      1976       1977        1978
APPROVALS AND COMMITMENTS
FIPEME Progiam                                 623      627     247                 2      _                    ___
POC Program-                                     -       -    2,092              3 820     4X840      8 850     12,380
Small and Medium Enterprises (PACOTE)          -       -   )3,350 -'  2,770                         5,150      6,395
Large Enterprises (PROJETO)                   -        -    1 637                360     1,010      1,840      3,830
Program Operations (PROGRAMA)                  -       -      455                110     1,060      1,860      2,160
Recapitalization of Development Banks           -        -      -                  320       -          100         -
Other Onlending Programs                       620      760     312                 20        -                     _
Total                        1,243   1,387   2,651              4,160      4,840     9,450      12,380
DISBURSEMENTS
FIPEME Progiaj                                 408      499     638                200        50        -          _
POC Program-                                     -       -      921              3,180     4,750      7,200      10900
Small and Medium Ehterprises (PACOTE)         -        -      88                 3890 300           l,200      3,000
Large Enterprises (PROJETO)                   -380                                         750      1500       3,000
Program Operations (PROGRAMA)                  -       -       23                300       880      1,500      2,000
Recapitalization of Development Banks           -        -       -                 200       120        600         -
Other Onlending Programs                       554      501     242                 20         -        -           -
Total                          962   1 000   1,801              3,600      4 800     7,800      10,900
1/  Includes Program Operations not included under this heading in other anexes.                                              z
2/  Includes Credit Line of Cr$ 2.0 billion commited to banks in August 1975.                                                 X
Source:  BNDE and Bank Estimates
LCPDF
September, 1975



ANNEX 23
BRAZIL
Development Banking Proj ect
BNDE:  Equity Portfolio as of December 31, 1974
(Millions of current Cruzeiros)
BNDE Participation
% of Total
Enterprises                                   Value          Capital
Cia. Siderurgica Paulista - COSIPA  1                    1,669.7           87.34
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais S.A.
- USIMINAS   !                                         1,58-.4           73.62
Agencia Especial de Financiamiento Industrial
- FINAME                                                 889.6          100.00
Light Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. - LIGHT                432.1            9.15
Insumos Basicos S.A. - Financiamento e Participag6es
- FIBASE                                                 199.9           99.97
Mecanica Brasileira S.A. - EMBRAMEC                        199.9           99.97
Investimentos Brasileiros S.A. - IBRASA                    199.3           99.67
Cia. Ferro e Acgo de Vitoria - COFAVI                      i41.1           93.52
Cia. Editora Nacional                                      123.3           75.40
Industria de Celulose Borregard S.A.                        79.6           42.65
Usiminrs Mecanica S.A. - USIMEC                              26.9          33.50
Cia. Incentivadora de Atividades Agricolas e
Industriais                                               26.6          100.00
Material Ferroviario S.A. - MAFERSA                         20.7           30.36
Telecomunicacoes Brasileiras S.A. - TELEBRAS                 15.3           0.43
Cia. Brasileira de Filmes Sakura                            1-4.3          38.85
Cia. Nacional de Alcalis                                     14.3          17'.37
Emresa Digital Brasileira S.A. - DIGIBRAS                    1.5           52.00
Others                                                     111.2
Total                              5,649.2
j  The majority of this equity investment was sold to the Federal Government's
agency SIDERBRAS, in mid-1975.
Source: BNDE
LCPDF
September 1975



BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Status of Arrears
(Millions of current Cruzeiros)
A.  Status of Loans as of December 31, 1974
No. of Loans           Principal Outstanding
Repaying regularly                                       297                      4,644.4
In grace period                                        1,316                     17,483.8
In arrears                                               129                      1,199.6
Total                                        1,742                    23 327.8
B. Loans in Arrears as of December 31, 1974
Principal in Arrears   Principal Outstanding
Principal     Principal & Interest in Arrears    as % of Total Loans    as % of Total L,oans
No. of Loans  Outstanding   Principal    Interest        Total       Outstanding              Outstandin 1
1 day-3 months            43          494.5         162.0          7.0         169.0             0.69                    2.12
3 - 6 months              18          274.3         112.1          7.2         119.3             0.48                    1.18
6 - 12 months              8          106.8          20.8          8.6          39.4             0.09                    0.46
12 - 24 months             3           33.0           2.3          3.2           5.5             0.01                    0.14
over 24 months            57          291.0          67.2         51.6         118.8             0.28                    1.24
Total          129       1,199.6         3614.4        77.6         1442.0            1.55                    5.14
C.  Trend in Arrears  171942
No. of Borrowers in Arrears       Principal & Interest in Arrears
1972                                              120                                391.2
1973                                              100                                229.3
1974                                               95                                200.0
Includes interest in arrears.
/ Situation on August 30 of each year.
LCPDF
September, 1975



ANNEX 25
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Audited Comparative Balance Sheets, December 31, 1972-1974
(millions of current Cruzeiros)
1972           1973           1974
ASSETS
CUR1EIT ASSETS!
Cash, Bank balances
and funds in transit                     493.5           490.4        1,293.1
LOANS OUTSTANDING
Subsidiaries2/                            1,703.9        2,770.8        4,576.3
Govt. enterprises                        1,972.5         2,644.3        3,887.6
Private enterprises3/                     4.376 7        6.605.7        15 000 6
Gross loan portfolio                      3,053.1       12,020.8       23.4645
Less: provisions against doubtful loans    340.1           337.5          337.5
Net loan portfolio                        7,713.0       11,683.3       23,127.0
INVESTMENTS                                 3.024.2        3,597.7        5,649.3
FIXED ASSErS (NET)                            47.2            69.9           84.5
OTHER ASSETS                                  382.0          105.4          136.9
TOTAL ASSETS                       11,659.9        15,946-7       30,290.8
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES /                         551.6          658.o        1,363.3
LONG-TERM BORROWINGS                        3 3284.7       5 144 0       13,873.1
Central Bank                              1,615.2        2,626.9        4,717.8
Fed. Savings Bank                          160.0           431.2        2,141.2
Bank of Brasil                               -              51.9        i,669.4
Nat. Housing Bank                            66.3          138.9        2,307.0
FINAME                                       -              97.2          245.6
Brazilian Treasury                          558.8          218.9          185.9
Foreign currency loans                      884.4        1,579.0        2,606.2
OTHER LIABILITIES                             209.2          197.3           356.o
EQUITY                                      7,614.4        9,947.4       14,698.4
Share capital                            5,o69.4         5,069.4        9,000.0
Special Reserve                           1,420.0        1,420.0            -
Reserve for capital increase                380.0        1,886.3        5,457.8
Govt. budgetary contributions               709.6        1,459.6           -
Miscellanous reserves                        35.4          112.1          240.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY        11,659.9       15,946.7       30,290.8
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Guarantees (BNDE's responsibility)        1,347.3        1,222.8        1,455.3
Guarantees (Treasury's responsibility)   2 479 3         2.388.7        3 104.7
Total Guarantees                                3,611.5        4,560.0
Loans committed but not disbursed         2,076.8        2,829.1        8,322.1
/ Current assets and liabilities are not fully represented under these accounts;
current Central Bank Accounting Plan does not segregate short and long-term.
2/ Three steel industries and FINAME does not represent all of BNDE's pending to
subsidiaries.
5/ Does not necessarily comprise loans only to private sector.
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 26
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE- Audited Comparative Income Statements, Years ended December 31, 1972-1974
(Millions of current Cruzeiros)
1972           1973           1974
INCCME
Interest on loans                             424.4           581.0          901.2
Commissions and other charge!                  30.2            35-5           63.0
Monetary correction on loanY                                  875.6        49159.7
SUB-TOTAL                          4-7          1,492.1         3,123.9
Guarantee charges                              34.2            27.2           29.3
Dividends                                       34.*4         103.5          119.9
Share bonuses                                 148.9           366.2          100.7
Other income                                   28.5            13.3           16.2
TOTAL INCOME                       700.6         2,002.3        5,390.0
EXPENSES
Interest and commissions on borroW*ns         lo5.7           277.7          631.5
Monetary correction on borrowings;v                            94.9          913.9
Salaries and other pers. charges                46.4           51.1           73.7
Other administrative and gen. expenses         34.9            63.1           77.8
Grants                                          -              51.9           26.4
Provision fund                                 268.3            -              -
TOTAL EXPENSES                     455.3           538.7        1,723.3
NET PROFIT                         245 ..       1,463.6         3,666.7
APPROPRIATIONS
Reserve for capital increase                  219.6         1,445.8        3,483.4
Miscellaneous Reserves                          25.7           17.8          183.3
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS               245.3         1,463.6        3,666.7
./ Prior to 1974 BNDE adopted an accounting procedure whereby the net income from
monetary correction and foreign exchange operations, and share bonuses due to
monetary correction of fixed assets, was directly incorporated into an equity account-
Reserve for Capital Increase.  Starting in 1974, monetary correction, etc., is first
accounted in the Income Statement. The 1973 Income Statement has been adjusted to
the new procedure. The net monetary connection during 1972 was 735.9 million.
On an adjusted basis, according to the above, the net profit during 1972 would be
Cr$ 981.2 million.
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 27
BRAZIL.
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Funds Flow Statements - cY1972 - 1974
1972           1973           1974
SOURCES
Net Profit                                       245.3         1,463.7        3,666.8
Charges not involving flow of funds
Share bonuses                                 (148.9)         (366.2)        (100.7)
Sale and donations of fixed assets
and shares                                     21.9            59.5            -
Depreciation                                     5.8             3.0            4.2
Provision fund                                 268.3             -              -
Net Internal Generation                      392.4         1,160.0        3,570.3
Increase in deposits                             270.2           106.3          705.3
Domestic loans (net)                            1,114.7        1,504.6        7.734.9
Foreign loans (net)                              337.0           690.4        1,027.3
Decrease in obligations to Treasury                 -            (14.8)        (15.2)
Incr,ease in other liabilities                    47.1             3.3          217.7
Government budgetary contribution                480.0           75o.o          950.0
2,641.4        4 199.8       14,190.3
USES
Loan disbursements                             2,570.0         4,242.3       12,431.7
Equity investments                                12.8            35.0          775.2
Increase (decrease) in accounts receivable       102.2           (81.7)          61.3
Increase (decrease) in other assets               (75.4)           4.4          109.6
Additions to fixed assets                         13.5             3.0            9.7
Increase (decrease) in cash                       18.3            (3.2)         802.8
2,641.4        4,199.8       14,190.3
Source: BNDE
LCPDF
September 1975



ANNEX 28
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
BNDE: Past (1972-1974) Financial Ratios
1972        1973         1974
Total income as % of average total
assets (ATA)                            1/           14.5        23.3
Financial Expenses % of ATA                T/            2.7         6.7
Gross Spread as % of ATA                   T/           11.8        16.6
Administrative Expenses as % of ATA        T0.8          0.8         0.7
Provisions as % of ATA                      3.4          2.4         1.5
Provisions as % of loan and equity
portfolio                                3.2          2.2         1.2
Income on loans as % of average loan
portfolio                               1/           15.0        29.1
Financial expenses as % of average
borrowings                              1/            8.9        16.2
Nominal net profit as % of average
Share capital                           20.6        28.9         52.1
Equity                                  14.3         16.6        24.9
Nominal net Income (Cr$ million)2/        981.2      1,463.0     3,667.0
Adjusted Net Income (Cr$ million)3/      (177-3)      137.2        142.8
Total Debt/Equity                           0.53         o.60        1.06
Including Guarantees                     0.71         0.73        1.16
1/  Owing to accounting procedures prevailing through 1972 which netted
monetary correction on assets and liability and credited the balance
directly to equity, it is not possible to calculate this ratio.
2/  Includes the net monetary correction for the year.
3/ Adju ted for inflation allowing for equity value maintenance.



ANNEX 29
Page 1
BRAZIL:  DELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Development Bank's Operational Policies and Practices
1.        The policies governing SEE operations are laid down in two Central
Bank   regulations, Resolution No. 93 of 1968 and Circular No. 128 of 1969.
Primarily aimed at defining the financial norms by which the development
banking system must abide, these regulations,which are zummarized below, are
not always wide enough in scope to provide S1Bs' with all the guidance they may
need to orient their development activities. Notwithstanding that SDBs' rely
heavily on the orientation given in state and federal development funds, they
could all benefit from the formulation of self-established policies giving due
consideration to the peculiar characteristics of their financial and operational
environment.
2.        Loans.  Development banks are permitted to provide medium- and long-
term financing for fixed assets and working capital, preinvestment and feasibi-
lity studies, technical assistance, infrastructure projects, and reforestation
programs. Lending to a specific project cannot exceed 80% of total investment
but no limit has been set up for the maximum exposure to any single enterprise
or group of enterprises under one management. Naximum loan maturity for work-
ing capital is limited to three years including an appropriate grace period,
whereas for fixed asset financing no time ceiling has been set. Though under
existing development funds fixed asset loans can generally be extended to 15
years, in practice, development banks tend to limit maturities to 4-7 years,
including a 1-2 year-grace period. Lending rates vary substantially depending
on loan purposes, the sector financed, the project location, and the source of
funds used. Interest rates on loans granted out of state and federal funds or
programs are fixed by the appropriate central agencies in consultation with the
National Monetary Council (CMN) and are binding on development banks. Only when
the latter use their own resources do they have greater freedom for setting up
financial charges to ultimate borrowers, but here too they are restricted by
CMNts ceiling on interest rates. For industrial project interest charges
(including monetary correction)are mostly ORTN indexed plus a 3-9% p.a. inter-
est. SIE's spreads on projects financed with borrowed funds range between 2-3X.
3.        Collateral put up by final borrowers varies among SMBs' and for each
type of credit operation. In principle, tangible assets are required as colla-
teral, though the lending bank may at its discretion accept guarantee in their
stead for part of the sum. On average, the required minimum ratio of real
assets to loan value amounts to 1.4:1 for fixed asset financing and to 1.6:1
for working capital. Since collateral is generally supplemented by personal
guarantees, these minimum requirements tend to discriminate against SMI s.
4.        Equity Investments.  Development banks are allowed to subscribe to
the capital of any productive enterprise,provided such participation shall
effectively contribute to the economic development of the country. The aggre-
gate equity financing for any one development bank differs among regions: 50%
of its own equity in the Amazon and the Northeast, and 30% elsewhere. No ceil-
ing has been set up for the maximum equity risk a development bank may take in
a single enterprise or group of enterprises under one management. Though curreat



ANNEX 29
Page 2
regulations stipulate that the taking of equity participations must include a
clause covering resale to third parties so as to ensure adequate rotation of
the equity portfolio, no guideline has been issued to assist the banks in
determining the maximum period they should consider for retaining subscribed
shares.
5.        Guarantees.  SLB8s are also empowered to guarantee medium- and long-
term loans secured locally or abroad by productive enterprises. No statutory
or regulatory restriction applies to local currency guarantees, whereas foreign
currency operations are only allowed in connection with imports of equipment
and machinery, and cannot aggregate more than two times the equity of the bank
which issues them. There is also no ceiling on the maximum guarantee maturity
or on the extent banks can provide such assistance to a single enterprise or
group of enterprises under one management. The commision charged for issuing
guarantees varies among development banks and can range from 0.25% to 1.5% per
semester.
LCPDF
November 1975



BMAZIL:  DtOLVEoEtI 30A8(18  MDJECT
SOOn' Major W-aia...lIand  lntLaDtaYaDne 1971  and 1974
1                          Tota~~~~~~~~~     ~~~~l-1 ses?  Total      W.e"lol  lo  Porfolio   tote    to  l9Jl- -doersotder-'     Eqott2y          Shar  Capital         Tot1 Debts            1914 Met  Prf6nef~ /        1974
Year      Tate11-  Dtolato..oal.  Dc.erhip(7.7.kC'          LL.. (Cr) mIllion)        (Cr) M illion  Ct   liLo)     tio (Cr) dillon)  Spareion           (Cr) at1La)          (Cr   dlln            (Cr)allln              (CD-s *DlIlm            Dndo
lsaabllabad  SeaI    tff              ENblio  Orlvoto  12/31/11 12/31/74  12/31/71 12/31/74  12/31/71 12131/11  12/31/71 L2/3l/74    -2131/74   12L/3D2I12131/74  12131/71 12/31174  12/31/71 12/31/74                       elnai            j      Ir Slel
*. Unt da   eeo  do Cear                               1970         97           57         99.9      0.1      58.2      365.3       21.0    325ST        1020    285.6         -         -          3.6           39.2      83.8       30.0    10.0        19.0    281.5          15.9       (24               .
2.   ar do Desoon, do E.Pirftt  tat-                    1969        142          46         100.0       -      54.2      340.5        22.6    312.2        26.1    288.8         .                   55.8          24.3       70.0       24.0    44.0        29.9    270.4146
3. M00do   eeo  do E.Anda do BMalt                      1966        135          43          92.4      /.4     84.9      497.4        78.4    481.9       66.5    402.7         4.6       7.1        77.0          37.2    116.0         20.4    60.2        47.2    381.3         14.68       (81.
4. Mat  oDeat oLetdo de Marehat                         1970         80           38         99.8      0.2      n.        88.3        no        88.         na      8.0         n.        3 .6       78.3            0..      37.5        n..     20.0        0.0      38.8         41.87       35        
5. Macta de                                                                                                    120e470s0.n. ' do.atdo eta ds Jatotto-  1989  71  24  108.0  -  120 170 1.  1.  03 174 . ..37                 3.            .       00         83      19217                    (.108
8. Ma-D  do feso.-  do Macdo do OS- POal                1970        324         1os         180.0       -     182 .3   1,681.3         5.8  1.490.!         3.0  1,378.9         -       10.0       688.5         140.8    410.8         10.8   288.0        12.5  1270.44.                    (35-
7.MnodMato d          o d   stdo d  Obo   Ocet          19682         a.        n.          180.0       -     40.    2,19.   9        8. 19998            6.    1,832.4        2.0       13.5       364.0         1127.2    428.6       100.0   407.7       291.1,  1,898.8         :,,                          -
9.Mcod   scco  do Paaa18                                       44          81        100.0              369.     1:455.'2     332.5:  1.32'6.!     2671i  1',09.9         -         -        57 2. 3        145.3    302.8       128.0   230.0       204.   1,14688.'(08                            
8. Santo do  aeo  do Rio Onade do  -ort                 1970         76          04         99.9      0.1      10.9      255.9        14.1    241.0G        25     235           .        72         1.              .        74          78      1.         10.0    194.9         33.        (242.
10.  at  do  aet.doeaOed  do S.'                         i@75"          .           .                     -                                                                                    -.                                                                                      .0        0.               .
It. Mand.  eon   at  C--entt                             1975Y                     -            - 
MM. MIXMSD07TAT  MIOIIIOWNT 888K
A2. Mot      - ltdo d, A100-                          1883        452           1I         00.8    10.2    223.9        3.4.9      i I2.0    421.3      208       444.1       5.5       1.0         4.3           14.7      48.4       12.6    30.0       1,8.2    t0?.3          14.11       5..
2. Mant  do E-tda do   aa- s                             1958       425           33         88.2    31.8    401.7   7.097.9         230.0    532.3       144.9    52.2          .        1.4          ..          39.4       72.1       25.0    58.0       362.3  2,025.8         21.8         4.3             4.
3.Mcodo  eO   oOta)1(                                         ,1                         00      1       248.0   1,98.0         1883    /8.6         159.      75.           2       4.5         n.           492.2    000.3        28.1    5'0.4      204.3    96.7           51.2       29.6             4.
4. M-nta do  etdo do ft-rb..oon.                                    ne.         n  .         n.        0.0.   353.5   3,754.4        268 .7  1,410.6      25.   I .392.5        1.9       3.9         6 .2          36.      144.8       30.0    10.0       318.8  1,609.8         48.3         9.               .
5     EMcod  Eaad  do Piet16?                                   3           1         8.        32      146        341         8.        0.         53.      201.9       0.5       6.8          .            16.91    49.4         5.0    02.0        108.4    319.           8.2       (1.1)            2.
0. Mnodo Eat    do taoa  atatn                          1982      1,730           44         70.5    29.5  1.131,0   1,9866.5        282 .5  1,036.1 - 244.9    957.2           7.9      15.4         n.            86.82   12~7.4       10.0    88.0   1,884.8  1,739.1            38.4        5.               .
1.Sno  o9:00   e  e"  p                           193         n.           a          60.9    31.        40.4      204.5       32 .0    17 0.8      342 .3    168.7      0.2       0.3          3.1           7.       20.6        6.0    12.0         32.8    08.             .         2.1             2.
9.Mnodo Eoad  d  Peeba)65                                     38 3         1 7        53.7      7.7    284.5       821.8      711.2    508.6       349.4    492.9         1.0       3.0         2.9           9. 7      30.9        5.0    15.0       274.1    790.9         1.            .              .
1.  aot  doSatnat  do ereetl                       1952      365            18           44      2.67403          6,748.7   2,009.5  4,217.1   1,71.1  6,1.               3.         4.           ..          522.6  1,244.1       140.0   420.8   1,817.7  5,904.           391         )33)9,
2.Moto  . IaD  do 98-00  do &-nec  So!           1982        327         1484       100.               313 .1   2,653 .4     354.4  2 , 577 .5    39.    ,47.                    30.8 3       17.9          92.      31.           30     178        2092324                1.          92
3. Uant da .    a.oo.a                                              n.e.        0..          00.       20 ,298.5   3,381.6           759.8  2,838.0       002.4  2,759.          .        85           '0          378 .1    600.4      2.00.    200.0   1828 4  2793.2           114.3        30700
OsarY-end 1-973.~
2/  DOnldits                  -...-ttg   taot  ("ooa   oropnaa)
4/  00W 00   8801 E   Mtelty        Aaeaoldlon o  Drloen  Monk. -
5/   oes tOot 0.10. 
sopocete 23, 1875



BRAZIL:  DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
SDBs' Maor Operational and Financial Ratio., year-end 1974
Compounded Growth Rate. Period 1971-74                   Debt/equity  Borrowings /    Loan under           Nominal    Administrative
Professionals _1                                                                      from official   liquidation        return on  expenditures
as I of          Total          Total              Share    Total                   sources as ta    as L-  year-end   average    ap I average
total staff       assets      portfolio  Equity  capital   debts   (A)   (B)   of total debt   Loan prt falio  ejuit                total asets~
1.  STATE 0EVKSUMMENT BAMS
1.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Ceara                                   58.7              85         149          29         26      146     3.5:1   3.8:1          84              -              19.3         2.7
2.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Espirito Santo                          32.3              83          125         43         23      108     7.8:1   8.1:1          83               -             27.9         3.1
3.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado da Bahia                         31.8              80          81          46         44      100     4.0:1   3.5:1          70             1.7             56.0         1.9
4.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Maranhao                      47.5           n.a.         n.a.        na.         n.a.    n.a.    1.6:1   1.5:1           97             5.1              5.4         na.
5.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado do Rio de Janeiro                36.6             131          125         87         59      159     2.8:1   2.7:1          99               -             15.3         3.7
6.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Sao Paulo                     32.4             118          527         40         59      367     2.7:1   4.2:1          93             0.7             25.7         1.6
7.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento de Minas Gerais                            n.a.              73           74         54         59       79     3.9:1   2.9:1          86             0.7             20.'1        2.7
8.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Parana                                  33.2              54           58         28         28       75     3.7:1   5.9:1          97               -             13.5         1.1
9.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Rio Grande do Norte                     31.6             136          158         25         14      169    18.0:1  15.6:1          98             2.9             18.6         2.0
10.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Rio Grande do Sul
11.  Banco de Desenvolvimiento Santa Catarina                               -               -            -           -           -          -     -        -           -               -
II. MIIUD STATE DlEVELOPlSENT BANKS
1.  Banco do Estado de Alagoas                                            2.4             46            59         47         41       46     5.5:1  .5.2:1          57 4/          0.2             36.7         3.9
2.  Banco do Estado do Amazonas                                           7.7              73           52         23         26       78     2.8:1   5.2:1          13 -           0.2             32.2         1.8
3.  Banco do Estado de Goias                                              0.8              63           66         34         22       66     2.3:1   1.5:1          44 -06                         61.4         9.5
4.  Banco do Estado de Pernambuco                                         n.a.             70           74         57         50       72      2.1:1   1.C:1         66 -           0.3             29.8         3.6
5.  Banco do Estado do Piaui                                             13.2              43           51         45         34       43      5.1:1   2.6:1         33 4/          0.3             19.4         2.2
6.  Banco do Estado de Santa Catarina                                     3.9              19           54         14         88       19     3.4:1   2.9:1          36 4/           1.6            30.7         5.9
7.  BMnco do Estado de Sergipe                                            n.a.             72           73         39         26       78    10.3:1   4.5:1          54.4/          0.1             39.0         4.6
8.  banco do Estado da Paraiba                                            4.7              42           44         47         45       42      3.2:1   2.2:1         44             0.6             55.3         2.3
III. REGIONAL DIVELOPHENT BANKS
1.  Banco do Nordeste do Brasil                                           5.0              47           46         34         45       50     4.5:15-  1.7:1-        38             0.6             26.1         9.2
2.  BMnco Regional de Desenvolvimiento do Extremo Sul                    44.0              93           94         55         75      100     8 6:1   9 3:1          98              1.3            27.4          n. at
3.  Banco da Amazwxas                                                    n.a.              15           53         17          -       15      45: 1:/,l:7:1-'       46             0.6             27.4          na.
1/ Ye-ar-end 1973.
2/ (A) - Total debt/equity ratio - Excluding borrowings from development funds; (B) - Borrowings from official sources (on-lending) and guaranteea/equity ratio.
3/ Borrowings from Banco Central, PIS-PASEP, FINAME, BNH, CEF, BNDE, BNB...
4/  Identified as "Special borrowings" (including borrowings for the development portfolio) under the Central Bank's accounting plan for commercial banks.
5/ Not including guarantee operations.
M
LCPDF
September 17, 1975



ANNEX 32
BRAZIL: DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Full-Fledged State Development Banks - Consolidated Balance Sheets
as of December 31, 1971-74
(Cr$ million)
1971         1972       1973        1974
ASSETS
Cash                                              60           59         145         240
Securities, Bonds & Equity Investments          240           389        439         662
Loan Portfolio (Net)
Public Sector                                 188          215         382       1,414
Private Sector                                641        1,350       2,418      4,283
Total Loan Portfolio         829        1,565      2,800       5,697
Fixed Assets (Net)                                24           53          63          78
Other Assets                                     169          177         193         261
TOTAL ASSETS                     1,322        2,243       3,640         938
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Deposits
Time Indexed Deposits                          -            -           -          172
Earmarked Deposits                             -            -           -          196
Total Deposits                -            -           -         368
Special Borrowings                               344          462       1,369       4,953
Other Liabilities                                400        1,027       1,324         108
Total Liabilities            744        1,489      2.693       5,061
Equity
Share Capital                                 446          500         642       1,153
Reserves & Retained Earnings                  132          254         293         256
Total Equity                 578          754         935      1.509
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY    1,322          2,243       3,640       6,938
Sources:  Central Bank and Development Banks year-end financial statements.
LCPDF
September 22, 1975



ANNEX 33
BRAZIL: DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Regional Development Banks - Consolidated Balance Sheets as
of December 31, 1971-74   -
(Cr$ million)
1971        1972         1973         1974
ASSETS
Cash                                           161.4       299.1        383.4        397.4
Securities, Bonds & Equity Investments        398.4        402.8        402.8        391.3
Loan Portfolio (Net)
Public Sector                              121.3        265.2        352.1      1,000.4
Private Sector
Production                           1,621.0     2;561.5      4,344.5      9,115.5
Commerce                               918.5      1,381.8      1,589.6     1,010.5
Other                                   66.8        114.2       491.7        136.2
Total Loan Portfolio      2,727.6      4,322.7      6,777.9    11,262.6
Fixed Assets (Net)                            108.3        131.5        154.4        183.6
Other Assets                                1,324.0      1,515.0        406.7        528.5
TOTAL ASSETS                   4,719.7      6,671.1      8,125.2    12,763.4
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Deposits
Short Term                                 458.8        882.3        994.6      1,334.1
Medium Term                              1,365.0      1,252.4      1,706.0      2,178.0
Total Deposits            1,823.8      2,134.7      2,700.6      3,512.1
Special Borrowings
Treasury                                     1.2          2.3         37.8         75.6
State & Municipal Taxes                       -           1.0           -            -
Central Bank                                70.2        218.4        359.6        198.9
On-lending & Refinancing Programs          352.3      1,110.5      2,304.1      5,392.1
Others                                     295.7        342.6        472.9        687.8
Total Borrowings            648.4      1,674.8      3,252.5      6,354.8
Other Liabilities                           1,264.5      1,495.1        457.7        734.5
Total Liabilities         3,736.7      5,304.6      4,633.5    10,601.5
Equity
Share Capital                              373.0        392.5        672.5        797.8
Resr:ves & Retained Earnings               610.0        974.0      1,041.8      1,364.0
Total Equity                983.0      1,366.5      1,714.3      2,161.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY    4,719.7                    8,125.2    12,763.4
LCPDF
September 23, 1975



ANNEX 34
BRAZIL:  DEVEIDPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Mixed State DeveloPnet Banks - Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1971-74
(Cr$ million)
1971         1972          1973           1974
ASSETS
Cash                                                          108.5         147.1        250.6           371 4
Securities Bond and Equity Investments                         56.3          85.0         135.6          168.3
Loan  lotolo(et)
Pubflc Sector                                               475.0         586.1         767.0          883.2
Private Sector
Production                                              454.8         734.2      1,199.5         3,026.9
Commerce                                                117.4         178.6        314.0           409.3
Other                                                   133263.8                   471.3           601.3
Total Loan Portfolio                     1l9O..        1,762.7       2,751.8        4,920.7
FSxed Asseta (Net)                                            50.1          60.2         80.0           117.1
Other Assets                                               1,385.9       2.284.7      1,887.2         3,247.5
TOTAL ASSETS                                     2,791.3      4.339.7       5,105.3        8,b25.0
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Deposits
*short Term                                                583.9         826.7      1,227.2         1,545.3
Meadum Term                                                 29.2          29.0         48.0           105.3
Total Deposits                             613.1         855.7       1,275.0        1,650.6
Special Borrowings                                            1.3           2.6          6.6              12.3
State & Municipal Taxes                                     -            3.2          7.2              25.3
Central Bank                                                43.9          50.8         59.4            82.3
Refinancing & Cn-lending Programs                          377.0         711.1      1,337.6         1,5h1.1
Others                                                     238.7         260.4        254.4         1.736.2
Total Borrowings                           660.9       1,028.1       1,663.2        3,397.2
Other Liabilities                                           1,285.7       2,166.0       1,722.7        3.186.1
Total Liabilities                        2,559.7       4,o49.8       4,660.9        6,583.3
Wagre Capital                                              146.6         191.0        298.9           339.7
Reserves & Retained Earnings                                85.0          98.9         145.3          251.4
Total Equity                               231.6         289.9         442            591.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY                       2,791.3      4.339.7       5.105.3         8,825.0
LCPDF
September 16, 1975



BRAZIL: DEVELOPMENT BANKING SYSTEM
Full-Fledged State-Y  and Regional-/ Development Banks - Outstanding Li.abilities from Official Institutions
Governaments and Development Funds at year-end 1974
(Cr$ million)
BADEP   DESENBANCO       BDM      BANDECE      BADESP       BANDES      BDRN    BRDE       BNB         TOTAL          _
FlNANCIAL & DEVELOPMENT FUNDS
Federal                                            -         -            -           -            -           5.7         -        1.2    27.5          34.4           0.5
State                                           239.0        -            -         28.7        205.7          0.1       13.2      34.2    17.4         538.3           6.6
Municipal                                        -                                              -  -                                  -       -            -              -
TOTAL                  239.0         -            -        28.7        205.7          5.8       13.2      35.4    44.9         572.7            7.1
BORROWINGS FROM OFFICIAL INSTITUTIONS
Central Bank                                    133.8        -           9.5         5.5        117.3         26.2       15.0    379.2   285.0          971.5           11.9
BNDE                                            342.6    189.3          31.6       161.9        385.4        116.8       35.8  1,398.4    45.7        2,707.5          33.2
Banco do Brasil                                         -                 -           -            -            -          -       23.0    64.0          87.0            1.0
BNH                                             158.4      26.5           -          5.7         27.1         20.7       66.7      88.6   342.6         736.3           9.0
CEF                                             141.2        -             -           -         51.7         18.9       12.0    120.3   181.8          525.9            6.4
FINAME                                           62.9      16.1          0.2         8.2        300.3         24.2        1.4    130.8       8.9        553.0           6.7
Others                                           33.5      28.3          8.1        25.6         95.8          7.9       47.5      40.6 1.120.3       1,407.6           17.5
TOTAL                  872.4    260.2          49.4       206.9        981.6        214.7      178.4  2,180.9  2.048.3       6.988.8           85.7
RORPOWINGS CONTRACTED "!ITH THE GOVERNMENr
Federal                                             -        -            -          -              -            -         -        3.0    18.6          21.6           0.3
State                                               -        -            -          -             -           0.9         -       72.4      6.9         79.3           0.9
Municipal                                                                                                        -
TOTAL                      -        -             -         _              -          0.9          -      75.4    25.5         100.9            1.2
OVERSEAS BORROWINGS
Governments                                         -        -            -          -             -            -          -         -      15.1         15.1             0.3
International Agencies                             -         -            -          -             -            -          -         -    374.2         374.2            4.5
EXIMANK                                            -         _            _          _           41.4          0.2         -       10.3       -          51.9             0.6
Others                                           17.8        -            -          -              -          _            -        -      33.4         51.2             0.6
TOTAL                     17.8        -            -        _            41.4           0.2         -      10.3   422.7         492.4             6.0
TOTAL OUTSTANDING LIABILITIES    1,129.2   260.2            49.4       235.6      1,228.7        221.6      191.6  2,302.0  2,54L4        8,154.8           100.0
1/  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Ceara (BANDECE), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado da Bahia (DESENBANCO), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Espirito Santo
(BANDES), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Maranhao (BDM), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP), Banco de Desenvolvi-
miento do Parana (BADEP), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Rio Grande do Norte (BDRN) - Detailed financial data were not available for BDMG and BANCODERJ.
2/ Banco Regional de Desenvolvimiento do Extremo Sul (BRDE), and Banco Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) - Detailed financial data on Banco da Amazonia were not
available.
LCPDF
September 22, 1975



BRAZIL: DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Full-Fledged State-' and Regional-! Development Banks - Loan Portfolio-/at year-end 1974-/
(Cr$ million)
PUBLIC SECTOR                              BADESP       BADEP      DESENBANCO      BDM      BDRN      BDMG       BANDES    BANDECE      BRDE      BNB        TOTAL       %
State & Municipal Government                 14.0         3.8          -            -       57.8       2.1          -          -        27.5    578.0         683.2    4.8
Autarchies & Federal State and Muni-
cipal Enterprises                          26.7        20.9        27.2          2.7        -      134.5         1.0         -         05      15.7        229.2    1.6
Mixed Fereral Enterprises                       -          -           -            -          -        -           -          -           -         _            _
Mixed State & Municipal Enterprises         447.9       106.1          -           0.3      88.6    431.7         26.0       22,6       190.9    102.4      1,416.5   10.1
Subtotal            488.6       130.8       27.2          3.0      146.4    568.3        27.0       22.6       218.9    696.1      2,328.9   16.5
PRIVATE SECTOR
Agricultural Sector                         131.3        85.2         1.4         16.3       4.8    401.7          6.1        0.6      495.7  3,204.7       4,347.8   30.8
Industrial Sector                           637.3       853.0       321.6         28.4      80.9    822.9        227.1      233.8    1,709.5  1,827.3       6.741.8   47.8
Commerce & Services                         121.3        22.8        52.4         18.2       1.3      39.3        28.5       28.5       121.2    252.4        685.9    4.9
Subtotal            889.9      961.0       375.4         62.8       87.0  .1263.9       261.7      262.9    2,326.4  5.284.4    11,775,5   83.5
TOTAL  1.378.5    1.091.8        402.6         68       233.4   1, 832.2                 285.5.   2.545.3  5.980.5    14.104.4  100.0
1/  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Parana (BADEP), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado do Maranhao (BDM),
Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Rio Grande do Norte (BDRN), Banco de Desenvolvimiento de Minas Gerais (BDMG), Banco de Desenvolv. de Espiritu Santo (BANDES).
2/ Banco Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), Banco Regional de Desenvolvimiento do Extremo Sul (BRDE).
3/ Excluding loans under liquidation.
4/  Data not available for the Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Rio de Janeiro (BANCODERJ), and Banco da Amazonia (BASA)
LCPDF
September, 19,1975



BRAZIL: DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Ful-l-Fledged  State-/and Regional-/ Development Banks - Industrial Loan Portfolio-/at year-end 1974
(Cr$ million)
BADESP        BADEP   DESENBANCO        BDM      BDRN       BANDES    BANDECE        BRDE         TOTAL          %
INDUSTRIAL SUBSECTORS
Mining                                         28.1          0.8       10.9           -         4.3          -         0.3         10.8          55.2         1.3
Construction                                   25.4         40.2        3.5          0.6        6.4        1.3        13.2        10.6         101.2         2.5
Industrial Services                              -            -         1.9          0.2         -         1.0        17.3         0.1          20.5         2.5
Non-Metallic                                    2.2        132.5       63.7          7.5        0.1       68.7        13.2       102.7          390.6         9.6
Metalurgical Products                          67.2         12.2       27.3           -         0.6        11.9       16.7       127.8          263.7         6.4
Metal-Mechanic                                101.8         24.8       13.2           -          -           -         4.3       115.5          259.6         6.3
Electrical Products                            13.6          0.9        4.0           -          -          1.4        9.6        57.6          87.1          2.1
Transportation Equipments                       0.1          3.4        3.4           -          -           -           -        51.6          58.5          1.4
Pulp and Paper Products                        39.6         56.8       12.6           -         1.8        7.5         0.7        92.2         211.2         5.2
Chemicals                                      63.7        134.4       67.6          9.5         -         2.4        13.7       232.1         523.4         12.8
Textiles                                       37.8         73.0       14.6          0.1       15.8        9.7        30.0       115.9         296.9          7.2
Apparel                                        45.6          1.2       17.6          0.4       27.5          -        54.4        67 8          214.5         5.3
Food Products                                 119.7        128.3       31.9          8.3        8.3       93.3        38.0       342.6         770.4         18.9
Others                                         92.5        244.5       49.4          1.8       16.1       29.9        22.4       382.2         838.8         20.5
TOTAL           637.3        853.0      321.6         28.4      80.9       227.1       233.8    1,709.5        4,091.6       100.0
1/ Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Parana (BADEP), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado da
Bahia (DESENBANCO), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Maranhao (BDM), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Rio Grande do Norte (BDRN), Banco de
Desenvolvimiento do Espirito Santo (BANDES), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Ceara (BANDECE).
2/ Banco Regional de Desenvolvimiento do Extremo Sul (BRDE).
3/ zxcluding loans under liquidation.
4/ Classification according to the Central Bank's plan of accounts for development banks.
5/  Data not available for the Banco Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), Banco da Amazonia (BASA), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Rio de Janeiro
(BANCODERJ), and Banco de Desenvolvimiento de Minas Gerais (BDMG).
LCPDF
September 22, 1975



BRAZIL: DEVELOPRENT BANKING PROJECT
Pull-Fledged State-/ and Regional- Develonment Banks - Securities. Bonds, antd Equity Investments at year-end 1974
(Cr$ million)
BADEP      DESENBAZCO      BDK      BANDfCE       BADESP     D    4S   ILR        BRDE     BNB      TA
GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
Federal Government Securities                 0.1           -            _        8.4           13.3        _          _      6.4      158.8      187.0       23.9
State and Municipal Securities                 -           49.9          -         -              -                    -       -          -        49.9       6.4
Other Securities                                      -         _                               33.6        _          _     13.2         -        46.         6.0
TOTAL                    0.1          49.9          -        8.4           46.9        -         -      19.6      158.8         76
BONDS AND EQUITY INVESTMENTS
Mixed Federal Enterprises                      -             -           -          -              -        -          -        -         -          -          -
Mixed State & Municipal Enterprises         166.1          14.5         0.2       33.4          43.9       7.9         -      6.0         -       272.0       34.8
Private Industrial Enterprises                 -             -                -            -           -         -             -        24.5       24.5        3.1
Private Agricultural Enterprises             66.8           0.5         0.3       6.6             -       14.1       4.7       -         7.1      100.1       12.8
Private Commercial & Service Enterprises       -            0.5          -        0.3             -        0.9        2.8     1.1         -         S.         0,8
TOTAL                  232.9          15.5         0.5      40.3           43.9      22.9        7.5     7.1       31.6                 51.5
OTHER INVESTMENTS                           102.0           _           0.2      18.0            0.6       0.5         -      3.6       71.1       95.2       12.2
TOTAL INVESTMENTS           234.2          65.5         0.7      66.7           91.4      23.4        7.5.   30.3      261.5      781.1      100.0
1/  Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Ceara (BANDECE), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado da Bahia (DESENBANCO), Banco do Desenvolvimiento do Espirito
Santo (BANDES), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Maranhao (BDM), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP), Banco de
Desenvolvimiento do Parana (BEDEP), Banco de Desenvolvimiento do Rio Grande do Norte (BDRN) - Detailed financial data were not available for
BDMG and BANCODERJ.
2/ Banco Regional de Desenvolvimiento do Extremo Sul (BRDE) and Banco Nordeste do Brasil (BNB) - Detailed financial data on Banco da Amazona were
not available.
LCPDF
September 22, 1975



ANNEX 39
Page 1
BRAZIL
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Understanding Reached with BNDE on a Plan of Action to Upgrade
the Institutional Arrangements and Operational Capability of
Brazil's Development Banking System
1.        BNDE is aware of the need to strengthen the capability of its
Area of Operations with Agents (APA) and to help upgrade the institutional
arrangements and capability of Brazil's state and regional development
banks (SDBs). To attain these objectives, agreement has been reached with
BNDE on a Plan of Action to be implemented during the commitment period
of the loan. The Plan of Action would be incorporated in a supplemental
letter to be signed by BNDE and is presented in pages 2 to 9 of this Annex.
2.        BNDE has also agreed that in carrying out the Plan of Action, it
will institute a training program for SDBs in the economic analysis of
projects. It will also require the state and regional development banks to
gradually adopt economic analysis of projects and will immediately institute
the calculation of the economic rate of return on projects with subloans
above its free limits vis-a-vis the state and regional development banks.
The appraisal of projects submitted to the Bank for approval will include
the calculation of the economic rate of return, made either by the state
and regional development banks or by BNDE staff.



ANNEX 39
Page 2
PLAN OF ACTION FOR UPGRADING THE STATE
AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKING SYSTEM
(Translation)
I. STRENGTHENING THE TECHNICAL PROCEDURES OF BNDE
The "Area de Projetos com Agentes" (APA) is the organizational
unit of BNDE responsible for conducting the programs and operations with
the Brazilian system of state and regional development banks (SDBs) and
for the coordination of technical assistance activities for improving the
procedures of the Financial Agents of BNDE.
Its tasks have been in a process of general expansion since
rmid-1975, when the Management of BNDE effected a substantial change in
the "Programa de Operacoes Conjuntas" (POC), setting explicit objectives
and redefining procedures, resulting in the need for a systematic and
progressive upgrading of the performance of the Agents of BNDE. The
granting of greater responsibilities and autonomy to the Agents results
in the need for greater attention by APA to the piocedures and the
individual and collective performance of the Agents and in a rising demand
for technical assistance for SDBs.
To achieve the objectives defined by BNDE, APA outlined this Plan
of Action, which is comprised of five (5) work plans to be progressively
defined and executed, namely:
- Plan for Reinforcing the Technical Personnel of APA
- Plan for Technical Information Reporting by SDBs
- Plan for the Supervision of Agents
- Plan for the Improvement of the Procedures of Agents
- Plan for Technical Assistance
This formulation reflects the long experience already accumulated
by the technical team of BNDE regarding relending operations, especially as
a result of operations with small and medium firms, as well as the familiarity
with the operational conditions of the state and regional development banks,
which operate within an area, such as Brazil, with continental dimensions and
consequently distinctive regional characteristics.



ANNEX 39
Page 3
The t'ak of elaborating and executing through APA the five (5) work
plans, whose general directives make up the Plan of Action for Upgrading the
State and Regional Development Banking System (1976/79), is a demanding but
important task.
A. PLAN FOR REINFORCING THE TECHNICAL PERSONNEL OF APA
APA has as its assignments: (i) to process all operations which
come from Agents; (ii) to monitor the performance of and gather technical
information on the system of Agents; (iii) to transfer practices and
procedures on the appraisal and supervision of projects; and (iv) to
coordinate technical assistance.
In order to accomplish the whole of these tasks, it is immediately
necessary to develop, through rigorous planning, an adequate work program,
including the resources necessary to carry it out. To achieve this goal,
these general directives will be followed:
i) to adequately set the size of the permanent technical staff so
as to assure the human resources necessary to carry out these
tasks; and
ii) to contract specialists in development banking to assist APA
in the elaboration of the respective work plans mentioned above,
which would be executed by the permanent staff of APA.
B. PLAN FOR TECHNICAL INFORN&TION REPORTING BY SDBs
With a view to the improvement of the performance of the Agents, it
is necessary to structure a system of technical information about the SDBs.
The contracted specialists will undertake to prepare a precise detailing of
information requirements, the manner of treating statistics collected, formats,
reports and adequate demonstrative exanples, in such a way that the information
usually required is readily available in an orderly form.
The information to be requested by BNDE of its agents, at least once
a year, would be composed of,among other things:
i) annual internal and external auditing reports;
ii) annual reports of activities;
-ii)  monthly reports on the level of arrears;
iv) summary reports on the monitoring of firms assisted with
resources from BNDE programs;
v)  operational reports, with the value and number of operations,
according to commitments and disbursements on approved and
cancelled operations, by year and by specific program;



ANNEX 39
Page 4
vi) operational reports, covering the sector of activity, location,
deportment of the firm, object of the project, generation of
Q!V2zynt, and other-infgrwaltJin about the- fimse assisted
with BNDE resources;
vii) organizational and staffing charts, information on the recruit-
ment, selection and development of personnel, salary scales,
staff turnover by unit, etc.;
viii) unaudited balance sheets and financial statements;
ix) annual and pluri-annual investment budgets with the financial
and operational premises; and
x) monthly forecasts of the three-month cash position.
II.  IMPROVEMENT OF THE PERFORMANCE OF STATE
AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANKS
The procedures and performance of various SDBs are satisfactory. There
are others, however, in which deficiencies are reflected and in which improved
performance could well be expected. There is, quite clearly, not a uniform level
of performance among SDBs. Few conduct their operations in light of subsector
development programs, and there is a major need to intensify the use of lending
criteria reflecting local and national economic considerations. The action to
be undertaken by BNDE regarding the supervision of Agents and the improvement
of their procedures, taking into account the fact that the action will have to
be addressed to a group which is not homogeneous and which has distinct pecu-
liarities, becomes even more important. The work plans dealing with the Agents
must contain general guidelines and procedures to be adopted, and also must provide
explicit attention to the particular cases which require isolated or differentiated
treatment. In this matter, the contracted consultants, specialists in development
banking, will provide relevant support to the permanent technical team of APA.
A. PLAN FOR THE SUPERVISION OF AGENTS
The recently instituted scheme of operations depends upon the adequate
performance of the Agents. Among the tasks of APA since mid-1975, the super-
vision of Agents has been given greater emphasis.
The Plan for the Supervision of Agents will be detailed to incorporate,
among other things, the following orientation and directives:
(i) it will indicate the number and purpose of visits, by Agent,
which should be undertaken by APA annually;



ANNEX 39
Page .5
(ii) it will analyze the weaknesses of the procedures of Agents,
from the supervision and evaluation reports received and
developed by APA; and it will propose the frequency and
content of supervision reports by APA, following these
general lines:
(a)  Institutional Report:  Broad overview of the organiza-
tion of the Agent, the funds mobilized, the programs
and plans for application of funds, budget execution,
criteria and models for evaluation and supervision,
timing of these procedures, cadastral services, collection
services, irregular operations, etc.;
(b)  Operational Re ort:  Detailed information on the cost of
mobilizing and applying funds, the number and average value of
operations by program, compliance with contractual obliga-
tions, and other relevant operational matters;
(c)  Special Reports:  Detailed information on banking services
and other relevant functions which APA feels it would need
to review in more detail as a consequence of weaknesses
identified from the institutional reports.
It will be a priority task of the specialists to be contracted to
elaborate the schedules and model reports which would apply to items ,bit and
"c" above, insofar as these are not institutionalized.  APA undertook,in 1975,
the elaboration of institutional reports relating to each of the Agents of
BNDE.
B. PLAN FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE PROCEDURES OF AGENTS
Improvement of Project Analysis. In this area, BNDE intends to expand
and develop the following activities:
(i) the regular recording of shortcomings detected in the appraisal
reports for operations above the level which Agents can approve
without BNDE approval;
(ii)  the planning of specific visits designed to review the appraisal
procedures and practices for operations within the level which
Agents can approve thiemselves;
(iii) the carrying out of technical visits in advance of the appraisal
of the Agent, with a view to orienting and instructing it on the
procedures and practices that should be developed in relation to
its portfolio of operations under appraisal;
(iv) the intensification of the internship of SDB technicians in APA
or eventually in areas of direct operations of BNDE; and



ANNEX 39
Page 6
(v) the endeavoring with SDBs to effect the adoption of models
of appraisal reports, contemplating more simplified formats
for operations with lower values of financial collaboration.
Special emphasis in this part of the Plan will be given to the
average time required for appraisal by the SDB, and in each case efforts will
be made to identify the factors inhibiting the acceleration of operations,
which because of delays tend to involve budgetary readjustments of the under-
takings. Moreover, in the context of budgetary control of projects, special
care would always be taken, over and above the provisions contained in Resolu-
tion No. 2/73 of BNDE, that the analysis of every project includes:
(i)  an examination of the proposals and/or contracts for the
procurement of whatever inputs or materials are involved in
the execution of the project being financed, in such a way
as to assure that these acquisitions are made at market
prices, taking into account quality,efficiency and other
pertinent factors;
(ii) an examination of proposals and or contracts for civil works
and construction and the provision of services involved in
the execution of the project supported, in such a way as to
assure that these items are calculated at market prices, taking
into account quality, efficiency and other pertinent factors;
and
(iii)  an examination,and when necessary a comparison, of the proposals
and/or contracts for the procurement of machines and equipment
involved in the execution of the project supported, in such a
way as to assure that these acquisitions are made at market
prices, taking into account quality, appropriateness, efficiency
and other pertinent factors.
Agents may be required to insert specific clauses obligating the
beneficiary firms to present progress reports, depending on the nature and
characteristics of the projects, during the implementation phases, covering
the specific aspects of interest to the Agent and to BNDE which, in their
judgment, could represent an important factor in an increase in the level of
risk of the operation, and refers to aspects of marketing, sales, financial
performance, operational costs or technical performance.
Improvement of Supervision of Beneficiary Firms. BNDE will put forth
its best efforts to encourage SDBs to make available qualified and sufficient
technical personnel for the task of supervising the final beneficiary firms.
Agents will be encouraged to undertake:
(i) regular visits to supervise the firms financed, including
requests for specific reports;



ANNEX 39
Page 7
(ii) the training of the management of beneficiary firms,
when necessary, requiring other times the use
of specific technical services of appropriate firms or
agencies providing the technical assistance required
by the final beneficiary;
(iii)  the adoption of guidelines, instructions and models for
supervision, providing for specific regional characteristics;
such models could be developed under the aegis of ABDE (the
Brazilian Association of Economic Development Banks) and of
BNDE;
(iv) the intensification of the sending of technicians for intern-
ships in APA and the direct operational units of BNDE, with a
view to absorbing necessary experience.
Reports on the position of operations supported indirectly by BNDE,
containing descriptions of the financial situation, the progress of the
project and the economic impact achieved would be sent to BNDE annually.
Improvement of Procedures and Basic Functions of SDBs. APA will
continue to put forth its best efforts to induce the Agents, through specific
clauses in credit operations with BNDE, to undertake to promote the elaboration
and execution of specific plans that improve, among other things, the following
procedures and basic functions:
(i) Plan of Action. It is fundamental that the SDBs prepare Plans of
Action, in such a way as to assure that the applications of
resources will be effected under recommended economic criteria.
In addition, special emphasis will be given to the capacity of
the Agent to carry out the elaboration of specific plans and
programs of special economic interest to the state, within the
principles of operation of a development entity;
(ii)  Budgeting. In order to establish adequate policies for the
mobiiization of resources and the channelling of applications,
every SDB would be required to prepare an investment budget.
The annual investment budget should be monitored and, monthly,
revised as necessary. The programming of applications should
include the following different degrees of commitment of opera-
tions and loan requests to the Agent: operations contracted,
approved, under appraisal, priority granted, priority requests,
and requests urder review. The elaboration and systematizing
of investment budgets will be required in such a way as to be
integrated with the cash flow forecasts of the Agent;
(iii)  Organization. kn adequate organizational structure is a basic
requirement for the adequate operational performance of any
financial agent. With the carrying out, whenever necessary,
of well-conceived reorganization plans, substantial operational



ANNIE  39
Page o
progress could be achieved. Emphasis would be given to
"bank marketing" and the avoidance of excessive bureaucratization
of procedures, which have occasioned in less developed regions
social costs substantially greater than the apparent progress
resulting from the adoption of excessively academic and
sophisticated work methods;
(iv)  Technical and Administrative Personnel. An adequate human resources
policy is fundamental in the upgrading of the performance of SDBs.
This is the greatest asset that a development bank can plan. The
reinforcement of staff, whenever necessary, through permanent
training and the "recycling't of human resources is a fundamental
goal for the upgrading of SDBs. The efforts to be undertaken in
particular, will be complemented with the necessary breadth which
is intended in the Plan for Technical Assistance attending to
the needs of Agents.
(v)  Active Operations. A systematic examination of the portfolio of
active operations should be required, periodically, with the
Agents taking the precautionary measures for the resolution of
arrears and making the corresponding financial provision for
doubtful debts. Along these lines, examples or plans will be
elaborated, in accordance with each case assured by BNDE, in
which the Agents:
(a) undertake a sufficient examination in order to identify,
case by case, the causes of arrears, the operational risk
and possible damages and losses from these loans with
doubtful return; and
(b) undertake a rescheduling of financial obligations of clients
in arrears if convenient, shifting when necessary the firm
management,through the initiation of extra-judicial action
and through judicial intervention, always seeking to adopt
gradually stronger measures than previously adopted;
(vi)  Internal and External Audit.  In addition to the annual inspection
by the "Inspetoria de Bancos" (ISBAN) of the Central Bank of Brazil
to guarantee compliance to banking laws and regulations, the follow-
ing,among other things, would also be required, in agreement with
ISBAN and after a case by case examinations
(a)  adoption of an accounting system consistent with the "Plano
de Contas" for SDBs;
(b) the contracting of an external auditor who would prepare
reports and statements, at a minimvum, in accordance with
the guidelines and requirements of ISBAN;



ANNEX 39
Page 9
(c) introduction or reformulation of internal auditing
units in accordance with generally accepted accounting
practices and procedures.
(vii) Collection Services. The existence of an efficient system
for collections is indispensable to the exact understanding
of the performance of clients and to bank security,for which
reasons it will continue to be a matter of intense attention
by BNDE; and
(viii) Cadastral Services. Adequate registration and recording of
clients and potential borrowers are prerequisites to the
credibility of SDBs and their safe and expeditious operational-
ity, for which reason BNDE, on its part, will also continue to
give this considerable emphasis.
C. PLAN FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
For the adequate execution by the Agents of the appraisal and supe-
vision of firms or projects, and the carrying out of the other procedures and
services which BNDE considers basic, it will be necessary to enlarge the
existing ABDE program of training and seminars and the recurrence of other
measures such as:
(i)  direct technical assistance from BNDE, through its principal
administrative units, under the coordination of APA;
(ii) the establishment of mixed working groups with technicians
from the SDBs themselves, in accordance with recognized areas
of specialization and under the coordination of BNDE for
specific tasks; and
(iii) the contracting of technical services from third parties,
notably private consulting firms, under terms of reference
in understanding with BNDE.
The elaboration and execution of the Plan of Technical Assistance will
be undertaken by APA, with the collaboration of contracted specialists requiring
in particular focussing on the individual needs of the Agents.
LCPDF
January, 1976



ANNEX 40
BRAZIL
Development Banking Project
The Project
(Millions of constant July 1975 Cruzeiros)
Sensitivity!/
1976           1977       1977
1. Forecast of approvals and
commitments under BNDE's
SNI Program (PACOTE Program)                 2,770          5,150      4,000
2. Deduct estimated onlending to
Investmant Banks (0.35)                        970          1,802      1.400
3. Forecast onlending to
Development Banks                            1,800          3,348      2,600
14. Deduct subprojects involving
pure working capital financing
and/or for commerce and services
and subloans with less than five
years maturity (0.25)                          L5o            837        650
5.  The Proposed Project (Bank plus BNDE)          1,350          2,511      1,950
Dollar  equivalent (millions)                 169            314        243
6.  Average Bank participation (0.25)
(Millions of dollars)                           32-            53         53
Sensitivit 2/
Average Bank participation (0.30)
(millions of dollars)                               38             47         47
Time for Committing Bank Participation (months)
25% Participation                                 9              8         10
Total                               17                        19
30% Participation                                 9              5          8
Total                               14                        17
1/ Assumes Bank commitment starts Apri' 1975.
2/  To establish alternative rate of commitment of Bank loan:  (i) overage 30%
participation in BNDE's financing; and (ii) lower BNDE approvals and
commitments in 1977.
LCPDF
Sep tember 1975



ANNEX  41
BRAZIL: DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Analysi. of Projoct Costs Eligible for Bank Financing
1.     To assess project costs eligible for Bank financing, the appraisal
mission carried out a review of 34 operations financed by BNDE during 1975
under its POC programs to small and medium scale industry. Such review
revealed that the costs of a typical small and medium scale industrial
project are, on the average, distributed as follows:
As % of Total
Project Item                            Project Cost
I. Purchased Abroad
Machinery and Bquipment                     12.4
II. Purchased Locally
Machinery and ERuipment
- Manufactured locally                      27.1
- Imported & bought  "off-the-shelf"         4.8
31.9
Building & Construction                     23.1
Working Capital                             32.6
TOTAL                           100.0
2.     Furthermore, based on an analysis of the items financed under the
above sample of projects, their direct and indirect foreign exchange
component has been estimated to average 29.5% of individual project cost
as follows:
Item Cost as    Direct & Indirect   Foreign Ex.
Project Item         % of Total       Foreign Exchange    Component as
Project Cost    Component as %        % of Total
of Item Cost 2J      Project Cost
I. Purchased Abroad
Machinery & Equipment         12.4               100                 12.4
II. Purchased Locally
Machinery & Equipment
- Manufactured locally        27.1               24.6                 6.7
- Imported & bought
"off-the-shelf"              4.8               75.0                 3.6
31.9                                   10.3
Building & Construction       23.1               15.0                 3.5
Working Capital               32.6               10.0                 3.3
TOTAL                  100.0                                   29.5
i, Parameters estaal shed by the Country Programs Division for industrial
investment in Brazil.
LCPDF
October, 1975



ANNEX 42
Page 1
BRAZIL
DEVELOPNENT BANKING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to BNDE (Draft)
I.   Background arid Supporting Information
1.01      The Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimiento Economico (BNDE), a federally
owned development bank and the principal source of industrial term-finance in
Brazil, has in recent years taken a central role in fostering and supporting
the development of state and regional development banks. Under BNDE's guidance
Brazil's state and regional development banking system, which currently includes
22 institutions, has already shown itself to be among the main and most dynamic
instruments of which the federal and state authorities have availed themselves
for implementing their industrial expansion policies. However, if the state and
regional development banks are financially sound institutions there is considera-
ble variance in the quality of their management and staff, in their project
appraisal capability, and in the soundness of their institutional and operational
arrangements. While the performance of the larger banks is satisfactory, most of
the smaller ones in the least developed states require upgrading.
1,02      Because of its familiarity with the development banks' deficiencies,
operations, procedures and problems, and as it is their principal provider of
resources, BNDE is ideally situated to influence their performance, and criti-
cally follow up and assist them in their upgrading work. BNDE is already taking
steps to perform the latter functions through its Area of Operations with Agents
(APA) which is responsible for all onlending to financial intermediaries. BNDE
is currently elaborating a Plan of Action directed to strenghthening Brazil's
state and regional development banking system. The Plan of Action, the implemen-
tation of which is expected to start in mid-1976, would call for improvements to
the development banks' management, project appraisal, follow-up, planning and
budgeting, internal and externalaidit, portfolio control, and information systems.
Notwithstanding APA's current staff quality and motivation, the magnitude and
complexity of the task to be undertaken calls for development banking technical
assistance to help it build further its capability for dealing with state and
regional development banks.
II. Objectives of the Technical Assistance to BNDE
2.01    The development banking technical assistance to be extended to BNDE is
part of its efforts to substantially increase its onlending activities through
financial intermediaries and to assist more systematically and effectively in
the development of the nation-wide state and regional development banking system.
A.   Long-Range Objectives
2.02    The proposed technical assistance will help (i) strengthen APA's techni-
cal and operational capability for dealing with state and regional development
banks and (ii) upgrade the state and regional development banking system by
improving its resource allocation ability and institutional and operational
arrangements.



ANNEX 42
Page 2
B.   Immediate Objectives
2,0B      The immediate objectives of the proposed technical assistance will be to:
i) advise and assist BNDE in the preparation and implementation of a
Plan of Action to upgrade the state and regional development bank-
ing system;
ii) assist BNDE in the selection and establishment of criteria and pro-
cedures for the evaluation and review of development projects;
iii) assist BNDE in the design and implementation of procedures and
systems to monitor the performance of the state and regional dev-
elopment banks;
iv) recommend specific technical assistance programs to upgrade the
state and regional development banking system; and
v) provide "first-hand" or "on-the-job" training of national staff
employed either by BNDE or the state and regional development
banks.
III. Technical Assistance Work Plan
A.    Description and Implementation of Technical Assistance Activities.
3.01      To assure the efficient utilization of the technical assistance to be
provided by BNDE, the activities of the technical assistance personnel referred
to in Part III and Part IV will be implemented under the supervision and coor-
dination of BNDE. Through periodic meetings and other exchanges of information,
BNDE will provide an institutional framework by which the assistance rendered
by the technical assistance personnel will be made available, as needed, to
the development banking system as a whole, including any new state or regional
development bank established during the duration of the project.
3.02      In recognition of the different needs of BNDE's Area of Operation with
Agents and of the state and regional development banking system, the technical
experts whose services will be required to meet the above objectives will have
the following operational responsibilities and geographical location  of assign-
ment
a) Project/Credit Evaluation Activities. The expert will be based
in Rio de Janeiro for an eight-months assignment, commencing
July 1976 or as soon thereafter as possible. His field assign-
ments will include: (i) reviewing and recommending improvements
to BNDE's project appraisal standards under its onlending pro-
grams to state and regional development banks; (ii) assessing
the specific deficiencies of the individual state and regional
development banks' appraisal standards and procedures; (iii)
assisting BNDE's Area of Operations with Agents in designing
and implementing programs for improving the state and regional
development banks' appraisal standards and procedures; and (iv)
providing direct technical assistance, as appropriate,to state
and regional development banks.



ANNEX 42
Page 3
b)  Organization, Administration/Management Activities.  The expert
will be based in Rio de Janeiro for a one and a half year assign-
ment, commencing July 1976 or as soon thereafter as possible.
His field assignments will include: (i) assisting BNDE's Area
of Operations with Agents in the establishment of appropriate
criteria, procedures and policies, for assisting and supervis-
ing the state and regional development banks; (ii) assisting
BNDE's Area of Operations with Agents in the design and imple-
mentation of programs to monitor the financial and operational
performance of the state and regional development banks; (iii)
advising and assisting BNDE in the preparation and implemenata-
tion of a Plan of Action to upgrade the institutional and oper-
ational arrangements of the state and regional development banks;
and (iv) providing direct technical assistance, as appropriate,
to state and regional development banks,
3.03       Though located at BNDE headquarters, the experts in each of the above
technical assistance activities will have to spend, as appropriate, a portion of
their time among state and regional development banks. Arrangements for the
extension or distribution of the experts' assistance within the development banking
system will be decided, arranged, and coordinated by BNDE with the participation of
the Brazilian Association of Development Banks (ABDE), as appropriate.
3.04       Secretarial help, office space, equipment supplies, and other support
that shall be needed by the experts to carry out their assignments shall be pro-
vided by BNDE and, as appropriate, the respective development banks which will be
provided with the experts' technical assistance.
3.05       To assess progress achieved in the implemenatation of the above technical
assistance activities, such expert will be required to prepare and submit detailed pro-
gress reports to the head of BNDE's Area of Joint Operations and to the World Bank
every three months.
B.    Training of National Staff
3.06       As the main recipients of the "on-the-jobf" training provided in the
course of the expertsttechnical assistance activities, BNDE and, as appropriate,
the state and regional development banks will ensure that professionals are avail-
able during the experts' tenure to work with the experts so that each expert's
development banking expertise may be transmitted in maximum fashion to BNDE's
or to the state and regional development banks' staff. In that connection, BNDE
shall also (i) arrange, as proves desirable and efficient, joint meetings or se-
minars of staff drawn from state and regional development banks; and (ii) ensure
that professional staff of any one of the latter banks shall participate from
time to time in the work and assistance rendered by an expert extending his assis-
tance in a different geographical base.
IV.   Technical Assistance Costs and Financing
4.01       To carry out the above technical assistance activities and programs,
financing estimated at US$175,000 equivalent will be required as follows:



ANNEX 42
Page 4
1976           1977             1978
Estimated Foreign Exchange Costs           man/month  %    man/month   %  man/month  %
Salaries
Project Evaluation Specialist              3    10,500      5      17,500   -     -
Administration & Management Specialist    3    10J500    12        42.000   3   10,500
Subtotal          21,000            59,500        10,500
Transportation costs                               12,000             6,000        6,000
Settlements costs                                  21,000             4,000       17,000
Total      6    54 000    17      69.500   3   33.500
Estimated Local Currency Costs
Transportation & related costs of
specialists travel in Brazil                      2,000            8,000         2,000
Secretarial support, equipment and
supplies                                          1,000            4,000         1.000
Total     _      3,000            12,000  _      3000
Grand Total    6    57 5o0    17      81,500   3   36,500
4.02
The foreign exchange costs of the above technical assistance program will
be covered out of the proceeds of the US$85 million World Bank   development bank-
ing loan. The national counterpart contribution which would consist of support,
secretarial assistance, and local travel financing will be provided by BNDE or, as
appropriate, the recipient state and regional development banks.
LCPDF
November 18, 1975



JBRD 11665
OCTQBR I9
V E N E Z 6 E L A
UR IN A M
1 A
BOA %,I TA
0
0  n:,            0e
MACAPA
"BELM
LUI
421                                   rRTALM
7-7
o
r'TERESINA
41                                                                                                                  ONATAL
PESSOA
0
o
D                                                                                                                              REaFE
KIRTOVEIHO
MACE10
C BRANCO 'I/                                                                                                 -j        j,                          0' 0-5
01                         AR!C
E  R  U
"(-LJIAB4                BRASbAfKj)
GOLWAP                                       e
Wo
0
-2v                                                                                                                       BELO HORIZONTE
B R A Z IL
54,C) PAULO,
0 std
b-d-.
CUR TIBAF
W-
fiAlrIC Oa4N
VI                                                                                     R A Z I L
PbTOALEIW                    9 a  P
O 50 6?0 71P                                                                                                                 7
U A Y\
200                                                                                                                                              OCeAl



