CIRCULATtNG COPY
Document of      TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESf'
:fILE COPY                       The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CIRCULATtNG COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK                    Report No. P-1722a-BR
REpORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
January 29, 1976
This document hasua restrkted dlstIic~lt1On and may be used by recipients only In tho Performanc of
thei offcialduti. isdcotents may  andt otew  be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 21, 1976)
Currency Unit                              Cruzeiro (Cr$)
USt1i                                      Cr$9.245
Cr,$l                      =US$0.11
Cr$1,000                                   US$108.17
Crtl,000,000                              US$108,166



FOR OFFMCLAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANT DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECCXMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO TE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THIE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$85 million to help
finance a Development Bankin Froject. The loan would have a term of 12 years,
including 3 years of grace. with interest at 8½'g per annum. The proceeds of the
loan would be made available by the Government to the National Bank for Economic
Development (BNDE) on the same financial terms and conditions as the proposed Bank
loan. BNDE, in turn, would relend the proceeds of the loan, in cruzeiros, to 22
state and regional development banks, and they in turn would relend the funds to
small and medium industries. Interest rates to ultimate beneficiaries would be
regionally differentiated ranging from 31 to 61 plus monetary correction. The par-
ticipating banks would retain a spread of 2% to 2½<.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil,, (812-BR), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975. Country
data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10% over the period 1967-74
has resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% increase in manufacturing
output and a 350% increase in the value of exports. During much of this period, with
carefully designed fiscal and monetary policies, the Government was successful in
gradually reducing the rate of inflation. The reform of the fiscal system, described
in the report, "Fiscal Policy Issues and Options in Brazil", (884-BR dated October 3,
1975), recently distributed to the Executive Directors, played a crucial role in the
stabilization of the economy., assuring balanced budgets while channelling substantial
budgetary savings into public investment and mobilizing a rising stream of private
savings to finance economic and social development. Some overheating of the economy
developed in 1973, and, as a result of the relaxation of controls and higher import
prices, inflation in 1974 was about 29%, compared to an annual average of 18% in
1970-73. However, there has been some slowdown in inflation during 1975.
4.        International economic developments in 1974 and 1975 have caused a sharp
deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments. The fourfold increase in the price
of crude oil (adding some US$2 billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the
price of most imported raw materials, as well as the hardening of terms of external
financial credits, have made management of the external sector difficult in 1974-75.
This document has a restricted disnbution and may be used by recipientts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents rmay no4 otherwise be dislisod withow Worbl Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Further, these external factors caught Brazil at the time when its economy was
overheated and growth of import demand was very high because of limitations on
domestic capacity in key sectors coupled with inventory accumulation. The cur-
rent account deficit, which averaged US$1 billion in 1969-73 or 2% of GDP,
widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the sizeable
differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth (roughly 30%)
and the increasing level of interest payments on debt. The bulk of the deficit
was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external financial credits.
5.          The Government acted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It continued monetary restraint, a balanced budget
and a realistic exchange rate policy, and it attempted to reduce imports by
causing public enterprises to use stockpiles of imported intermediate goods
accumulated during 1974. However, the Government's plan to reduce the trade
deficit to about US$2.5 billion in 1975, compared to US$4.6 billion in 1974,
was partly frustrated by the sharp slowdown in manufactured export growth as
a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries, as well as by the
frost in southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production
of some key crops, including coffee and sugar. The Government has been moni-
toring the balance-of-payments situation very closely and in the second half
of 1975 adopted several new measures which helped stabilize the reserve level
which had declined moderately during the first half of the year. The new
measures establish advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40%
of merchandise imports, further increases in import duties, a 25% increase in
gasoline ptices and continued restriction of public sector imports. In addi-
tion, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS, per-
mission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies.
6.          In recent years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into
the world economy and its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable
to changes in the world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth
of the world economy could have an adverse impact on prices of Brazilian primary
exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures. World economic
conditions will probably not permit Brazil to grow during 1975-80 at the 10% pace
attained in the preceding years. In fact, in 1975 it slowed considerably, paral-
leling the very steep decline in CECD economic activity. However, a growth path
averaging 6% per annum still seems feasible over the 1975-80 period. It is esti-
mated that to finance the projected growth path, the average annual net inflow of
medium- and long-term capital (that is, capital other than direct investments and
financial credits) required for the 1975-80 period wiUl be substantial, about
US$1.7 billion, or three times the average for the 1970-74 period. On the other
hand, the direct import needs of most public investment projects are relatively
low, reflecting the ability of the domestic capital goods industry to compete
successfully under international competitive bidding and the low direct foreign
exchange component of many projects with strong social impact. Hence, an appreci-
able part of official external financing would have to be made available to cover
domestic expenditures if Brazil is to achieve its growth targets.
7.          At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estimated at around
17%, which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of develop-
ment. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached about US$21.0



biflion at the and of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$14 blflion, was in
the form of financial credits. The debt service ratio during 1975 on this total
external debt was about 34&%. However, it should be noted that net foreign ex-
change reserves aa of the end of October 1975 were still large, about US$4.l
billion, equivalent to some four months of the 1975 imports of goods and non-
factor servriensi If un export growth rate of around 17% per year in dollar
terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be maintained over the 1975-80 period
and if average maturities on new financial credits gradually improve from six
to eight years, the public debt service ratio in 1980 can be expected to remain
at the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period (about 17%). The ratio for total
public and private debt service would improve somewhat, The large foreign ex-
change reserves accumulated over the past several years ensure that Brazil will
have the liquidity to meet its debt service obligations in the short term, while
the country s record of high caliber financial management provides grounds for
confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
8.        There has been a remarkable broadening and deepening of the country's
productive base and of its infrastructure in recent years, as well as a considerable
strengthening of its external sector. However, despite its recent growth and vast
potential, Brazil is still a country with a very unequal distribution of income
and extensive absolute poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity
of the country's income distribution problem and accepts the responsibility for
its alleviation. While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate
of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does no-t believe
that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping a new
positive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth."
To this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs initiated by its
predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for improvinig income
distribution.  These can be classified into three broad areas. (a) regional develop-
ment; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage policy. In addition, recent
tax changes have tended to have a favorable, although marginal, impact on income
distribution.
9.        To promote regional development, the Government has formulated a program
known as POLONORDESTE for rural development in the Northeast which envisages invest-
ment expenditures of about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79.   This program is designed
to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through, inter aIia, formula-
tion and execution of integrated rural development projects, whichare likely in
some cases to include changes in land tenure.   POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption
that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therafore,
uniform standardized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-
regions covering large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would
be used initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte project is one of the
first under POLONORDESTE, and-the Government intends to present additional similar
projects for Bank consideration in the future. Active consideration is being given
to a major modification in the state value added tax system to redistribute fiscal
resources from the richer to the poorer states, in order to give the latter the
fiscal resources which they badly need to accelerate social programs, particularly
in education. In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. It recently
introduced a change in the Social Integration Program (PIS, a social security fund)



amounting to the introduction of a negative income tax for the lowest paid workers
covered by PIS by entitling these workers, with incomes presently between about
Us$60 and US$300 monthly, to withdraw once a year up to one month's minimwu wage
(about US$60) from their PIS accounts. The Government is also planning to strength-
en the nutrition program which, under the previous Government, got off to a poor
start. Greater emphasis is being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-
income housing, whose beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the
past. BNH is also developing a site and services program to reach parts of the
population even lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently reorga-
nized rural extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its activities
directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the newly established
federal agriculture research institution (DFBURPA) is redefining its program to
include a selection of crops and farm systems which will ensure that small-scale
farms benefit from research efforts. Overall, the Government's recently approved
public investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health,
agriculture and regional development, which account for about 30% of total public
investment. Finally, the Government intends to use wage policy to improve income
distribution. It has already revised the formula governing the adjustment of the
union wage scale and has introduced an 8-10% increase in the real minimum wage.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
10.       By November 30, 1975, the Bank had approved 57 loans for Brazil, amounting
to US$2,11.2 million, of which 34 had not been fully disbursed. During FY65-69,
disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to an average of
US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million in FY74, and
US$248 million in FY75. Disbursements will continue to increase during the next
few years. Annex II contains a summary statenent of Bank loans as of November
30, 1975 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
11.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans were
approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling US$19? million
for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73, six loans amounting
to US$187.7 million; in FY74, three loans totalling US$242 million; and in FY75,
five loans totalling US$426.5 million were approved. So far in FY76, loans of
US$60 million for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program, of US$75 million
for the FEPASA railway rehabilitation and expansion program and of US$12.0
million for the Rio Grande do Norte rural development project have been approved.
Also, a loan of US$55.O million for a secondary and feeder roads project is being
presented to the Executive Directors in early February. We are working actively
with the Brazilians on the preparation of an agricultural research program, a
nutrition project, a second agro-industries project, an ammonia/urea fertilizer
project, a project in support of the establishment of a non-flat steel enterprise,
electric power transmission and distribution projects in the Northeast and in the
State of Parana, and a rural development project in the State of Minas Gerais.
12.       Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of
1974 totalled US$9.1 billion, and of this amount the Bank held 9.6%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.3%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total and external public debt outstanding would



increase to 121 by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
13.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any other
country. Since 1957, IFC has made 27 commitments to Brazil, totalling US$262.9
million. of which US$32.5 million has been cancelled, US$19.4 million repaid and
US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$8h.1 million, US$61.7 million
represents loans and US$22.4 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up
to November 30, 1975 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
1h.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives, which are interdependent
and complementary. One of these objectives is to support institutional develop-
ment and policy reform. designed inter alia to help maximize public savings and
ensure that they are used economically. This is a central objective of the
proposed development banking project which will assist in improving the project
appraisal and selection ability of 22 state and regional development banks. thus
helping secure a rational allocation of scarce investment resources. The project
would also provide term financing to small and medium industries which have been
hindered by difficult access to it. The institution-building objective has also
been important in our assistance -to the transportation sector, where emphasis
has been given to the rational selection of investments, the strengthening of
railway operations. and the improvement of financial performance.
15.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support the growing
effort of the Government to identify and develop projects designed to increase
productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the population, to
broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to alleviate poverty.
The proposed development banking, project, by focusing on small and medium industries,
will give special support to a segment of the industrial sector that has significant
labor absorption prospects and should result in the creation of a sizeable number
of new jobs in many urban areas in the country. The recently approved Lower Sao
Francisco and Rio Grande do Norte rural development projects were also designed
to assist low-income groups -- in those instances the rural poor. Bank staff are
making a particular effort to help Brazil develop additional integrated rural
development projects to increase the productivity of the small farmer in the
Northeast, the poorest section of the country, and we expect to present in the
future an increasing number of projects of this type. A project is in preparation
to support agricultural research in the Northeast (with emphasis on improving the
technology available to small farmers) and to strengthen the federal mechanism for
coordinating and supervising agricultural research-. We are also actively associated
with the preparation of new projects in the fields of water supply and sewerage,
site and services, nutrition, and rural education.
16.       Another important lending objective for the Bank has been to help Brazil
ease the foreign exchange constraint on its development, a constraint that has
become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects
designed to increase Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute
domestic production for imports. It is expected that about 25% of the subprojects



- 6 -
to be financed under this proposed project would be export-oriented.  Mi-I!) (L
the investment in the transportsector -- railways, ports and highways -- is
designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of' e.::)ort.s. The balance
of payments will also be aided by the proposed ferti'izer project and the agro-
industries program both now under prepara-tion.  The forme-r would have a direct
import substitution effect and the latter is oriented toward exports to supply
major quantities of foodstuffs to the rest of the world. Also, support of the
steel expansion program is helping Brazil develop output of a commodity wlich
can be produced efficiently in Brazil owving to the coumtry's bountiful supply
of high grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets.
17.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that urazil has neededand will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. In some sectors, such as electric power and steel, the Bank's
participation has helped Brazil obtain addltional bilateral resources in
greater amounts and on more favorable terms.
PART III - INDUSTRY IN BRAZIL
Background
18.       Industry has played a central role in the rapid growth of thie econormy
irn the last seven years. During the period 1967 to 1974, real industrial output
increased at an average annual rate of 12.3%, increasing the share of industry
in GDP from 27% to 33%. Industrial employment increased at an annual rate
of 5.9% during the 1960s, as the proportion of the labor force employed by
industry increased from 13.1% in 1960 to 17.8% in 1970, with this trend continuPirg
during the 1970s. The most dynamic element of this industrial expansion has been
the production of consumer durables and capital goods, which increased at an
annual average rate of 18% during 1967 to 1974, and now accounts for about 28%
of total manufacturing production.  Production of intermediLte goods (chemicals,
paper, rubber,semi-finished metals), which account for 42% of manufacturing output,
has also increased at a good pace, averaging 12.2% since 1967. However, the
traditional consumer goods industries (textiles, clothing, food products) have
been the slowest growing sector and their share in manufacturing output declined
from 36.2% in 1967 to 28.4% in 1974.
19.       The expansion of the manufacturing sector in Brazil has been accompanied
by substantial reduction in tariff protection. In fact, it is estimated that the
average effective protection afforded to manufacturing industries has decreased
from 181% in 1966 to 76% in 1967 and to 47% in 1973.
Government Policies in the Industrial Sector
20.       The Brazilian Government's overall policy in the industrial sector is to
stimulate development, based on modern technology, that would be competitive
internationally, would help to alleviate the balance-of-payments constraints to
the country's economic growth, and would increase employment opportunities.  To
this end, the Government has sought (i) to increase exports of manufactured goods



-7-
both to diversify and expand total exports and to increase the scale and
efficiency of domestic industry; (ii) where economically justified, to su)st;i..-
tute domestic production for manufactured imports, especially in the interiemdiala
and capital goods categories; (iii) to disperse industrial activity geograpi-_
ically so as to achieve a more equitable inter-regional distribu-tion of empLo;-
ment opportunities; and (iv) to strengthlen small and medium industrial enter-
prises.
21.       Manufacturing Exports.  During the past few years Brazilian manul'actureG
exports increased dramaticaly, at an annual rate of 48%, from US$535 million in
1970 to US$2.6 billion in 1974.   In this latter year manufactured exports accounted
for 28% of merchandise exports. Growth was accompanied with diversification ilto
such non-traditional exports as chemicals, plastics, transport equipment and mechan-
ical and metallurgical products. Although manufactured exports account for only
about 4% of industrial product, they have had a central role in developing econlomies
of scale in some industries and in improving quality and technology.   These achieve-
ments were primarily induced by a range of fiscal incentives, including tax rebates,
the flexible ("crawling peg") exchange rate policy and favorable world market condi-
tions. During this time, Brazilian industry has become increasingly efficient and
competitive.  The prospects for further expansion of manufactured exports are
reasonably good, since in no case do they constitute more than 3% of the total
manufactured imports in any market, nor do they consist significantly of products
such as textiles and shoes presently eliciting protectionist reactions.
22.       Import Substitution.  Domestic production of capital and intermediate
goods is still lagging behind consumption and imports are substantial (US$7.6
billion in 1974), accounting for about 60% of Brazil's overall imports. Therefore,
significant opportunities for import substitution in these subsectors on an economic
basis still remain. In part, they relate to needed expansion of existing production
capacity in the steel and nitrogenous   fertilizer industries.  But perhaps the most
pressing need for additional import substitution is in the domestic capital goods
industry.  Whereas in the past foreign credit for the purchase of foreign equipment
was more readily available and had better terms and conditions than domestic credits
for local equipment, the Government has now provided substantial financial resources
to FINAME, BNDE's capital goods financing subsidiary, to promote the manufacturing
and marketing of domestic equipment. Also, since tariff protection for capital
goods is relatively low, the Government has now directed Government-owned enter-
prises to give preference in their purchases to domestic capital. goods.
23.       Geographical Dispersion of Industrial Activity.   The progress iTI achieving
geographical dispersion of industry has been limited. In 1970, about 60% of total
manufacturing value added was produced in the State of Sao Paulo, 17% in the State
of Rio de Janeiro, and 6% in the State of Minas Gerais. In order to induce geo-
graphical decentralization of industry, in the early 1960s the Government established
the Northeast industrialization program, which was based on generous tax exemptions,
subsidies and investment incentives. These measures, although they have probably
prevented a widening of the gap between the Northeast and the South, have not been
sufficient to change the pattern of geographical distribution of production. The
Government, therefore, through BNDE, is now making renewed efforts to achieve
industrial decentralization by strengthening the operations of the regional and
state development banks and by making available an increasing share of BNDE's
industrial lending to the least developed regions. The Government's efforts in
this matter would be supported by the proposed loan to BNDE.



- 8 -
2h.       Strengthening of Smai:L and Medium Industries.  Small and medium firms
play "in important role in the manufacturing sector. More than 97% of Brazil's
industrial enterprises have fewer tha, 250 employees.   These firms accounled
for 62% of manufacturing employment in 1970, compared lo 54% in 1959; they also
accounted for 55% of manufacturing value added in 1970, compared to 46% in 1959.
Smaller enterprises have thus managed to increase their share of both employment
and value added. The role of small and medium firms is particularly promirenrt
in the mnore traditional labor-intensive industries, producing items of mass
consumption (wood, wood furniture, leather products, apparel and food).   With
small and medium firms requiring on average less capital investment per job than
larger industries, their expansion should have significant employment generation
effects.
25.       The (overnment's national development plan identifies the strengthening
of smalI and mediuwr industries as a key compornent in its efforts to incr(ease
employment and decentralize industrial production.   In this regard, steps have
been taken to enlarge and strengthen the Brazilian Center for Managerial Assistance
to Small and Medium Industries (CEBPAE), and to strengthen thle state development
banking system, which is the main channel of funds to small and mediwu industries.
CEBRAE was established in 1972 under the sponsorship of BNDE and the Association
of State Development Banks as a non-profit organization.   Through more than 18
state institutions affiliated with CEBRAE, CEBRAE offers direct assistance to
individual firms, holds training courses for the management of small and medium
industries, and executes studies concerning the structure and development potential
of these firms in individual economic sectors. At present CEBRAE is operating
efficiently and both BNDE and the Federal Government provide it with sufficient
resources, in the form of grants, for its operations.
Financing of Small and Medium Industries
26.       Despite rapid expansion of total credit to the private sector in recent
years, availability of long-term financing for the manufacturing sector is still
quite limnited, in particular for smaller firms.  In part, this is the result of
the structure of the financial market. The Government has sought to influonce
the allocation of credit by public and private financial intermediaries in
accordance with its priorities, and there is evidence that demand for industrial
and commercial credit exceeds the supply. In fact, interest rates for these
segments of the financial market are among the highest in the world. The Brazilian
stock market, on the other hand, has played a limited role in the financing of
industry. Traditionally, it has been narrow and speculative and over the last
three years the value of shares traded in the stock exchange has declined. Larger
firms have attempted to cope with the problems of limited availability and high
costs of local financing by contracting financial credits abroad. In the last
few years foreign borrowings increased substantially, reaching US$4.8 billion
net in 1974. Although private financial intermediaries have also borrowed heavily
abroad, by and large only large firms have benefited from these sources. The
result of the combination of private external borrowings and limited domestic
credit has been to skew the availability of credit in favor of large firms with
access to externally generated funds.
27.       Aside from external borrowing, the sources of longer term financing
for industry are the private investment banks and the public development banks.
investment bank operations have grown from less than 8% of total financial system



-9-
credit to the private sector in 1969 to 11% in 197h, yet various aspects of their
operations have been disappointing. Most investment banks concentrate their
financing in larger clients and their lending horizon tends to fall short of
borrowers' needs, especially in the case of smaller clients, since the financing
typically does not exceed four years and probably averages two to three. BNDE
and the regional and state development banks are the key institutions in providing
longer term financing to industry. However, BNDE's direct lending operations
are concentrated in large projects in basic industry assigned high priority by
the Government. Lending to small and medium industries, almost wholly through
intermediaries, accounted for only 5% of BNDE's lending in 1974, reaching about
US$130 million.
28.       The Federal Government and BNDE are now determined to make a more
equitable share of industrial credit available to small and medium industries.
In 197h, the Government transferred to BNDE the administration of the retirement
funds for public and private employees (PIS and PASEP) whose resources amounted
to US$1.1 billion in 1974, thereby greatly increasing the funds available to BNDE
for industrial credit. It is now expected that BNDE lending to small and medium
firms will increase from US$ 130 million in 1974 to US$800 million in 1978. BNDE's
funds will be channelled to small and medium industries primarily through state
and regional development banks as BNDE does not have the organizational base to
lend directly to small firms. Because of their broader geographical coverage, state
and regional development banks can reach small and medium industries more effectively
than a centralized institution. The proposed Bank loan would support BNDE's efforts
to expand its lending to small and medium industries through these development banks.
Interest Rates and Indexing
29.       Longterm financial instruments in Brazil are subject to monetary
correction (i.e., their principal amounts are adjusted in proportion to price
level changes). This monetary correction is now applied to Treasury bonds,
savings deposits in savings and loan associations, and long-term industrial
and housing credit.  Short-term deposits and loans carry interest rates that
are fixed ex ante to give nominal yields in excess of the expected rate of infla-
tion. DurThgl9`7s), the rate of inflation (about 34% on a year-end to year-end
basis) was substantially higher than previously expected and therefore instruments
with monetary correction bore a higher real interest than those with ex ante
correction. T'his situation caused savers to shift a significant portion3ofrtheir
holdings to monetarily corrected assets, thereby causing an imbalance in the
financial system. To correct this situation, to induce borrowers to enter into
obligations with monetary correction, and to prevent the indexing system itself
from acting to perpetuate inflation, the Government has made several modifi-
cations in the indexing system since the end of 1974, mainly with the effect
of reducing the impact of exceptional or uncontrollable events (such as sudden
increases in crop prices resulting from a serious frost). These modifications
do not constitute a departure from the principle of indexing and the interest
rate structure in Brazil will continue to be adequate from the point of view of
resource mobilization as well as of resource allocation since positive real interest
rates will generally continue to prevail. The Government has given assurances that
changes in interest rates and indexing, which could effect the proposed Bank project,
would not be made without prior consultation with the Bank (see Section 1.02(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement and Schedule 1 to the draft Project Agreement).



- 10 -
Coordination of Industrial Lending
30.       The Government has, during the preparation of this proposed project,
taken several steps to improve lending to small and medium industries. Partly
as a result of a dialogue with the Bank, resources from PIS and PASEP, which
were partially channelled to state development banks by another federal institu-
tion, are now channelled through BNDE. This has eliminated inconsistencies in
interest rates and project appraisal criteria as far as lending through state
development banks is concerned.   However, given the multitude of agencies,
programs and funds that still exists in Brazil's financial sector, and the
different ministries that supervise these agencies, coordination of Government
industrial lending is still difficult, with some overlapping of programs. The
Federal Government is aware of this situation and has agreed to cause BNDE and
other financial institutions to coordinate the terms and conditions of their
lending (see Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Previous Bank Lending to Development Finance Conpanies in Brazil
31.       In 1970, the Bank made a loan of US$25 million to Banco do Nordeste
do Brasil (BNB) to assist in financing the foreign exchange cost of industrial
projects in the Northeast of Brazil.   Tins loan has now been fully committed,
but its utilization was slow due mainly to BNB's ulusually burdensome procedures
and its emphasis on larger scale projects for which financing from other than
World Bank funds had been available.   This situation, however, has been changed
since 197h, when a new management with more development orientation was appointed.
BNB would be one of the 22 development banks participating in the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       A report, entitled "Appraisal of a Development Ranking ProJect in Brazil"
(932a-BR, dated January 22, 1976), is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors.  The main features or the loan and project are summarized in Annex III
hereto. The project was appraised by Bank missions which visited Brazil in April
and July 1975. Negotiations took place in Washington in December 1975, with a
Brazilian delegation led by Mr. Agilberto Pires, General Counsel of BNDE.
The Proposed Loan
33.       Terms of the Proposed Loan and of Subloans. The propose!J Rank Loan
would be made to the Government of Brazil, which would make available the proceeds
of the loan to BNDE on the same financial terms and conditionis as the Bank loan
(see Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement), and BNDE would assume the
foreign exchange risk. BNDE would relend the proceeds of the loan to 22
state and regional development banks, and they in turn will relend the funds to
small and medium industries. The loan proceeds would be used to finance part of
the foreign exchange component of fixed assets and permanent working capital of
investmnent projects carried out by small and medium industries and the foreign
exchange cost of technical assistance to BNDE. Subloans would be denominated in



- 11 -
cruzeiros with monetary correction. and woulCd carry regionally differentiated
interest rates: North and Northeast'! 3g per annum-, Center-South 5% per annum
and Sao Paulo o5~. per annum. Development banks would be provided with a 2-2Ag /
spread. PNJDE's spread is also expected to be satisfactory since the rate of
monetary correction on sums due to BNDE on cruzeiro subloans is expected to be
higher than the rate of depreciation of the cruzeiro, which would determine the
amount of local currency needed to purchase foreign currencies to service the
Bank's loan. To ensure satisfactory lending terms for sub-borrowers, subloans
would carry maturities from 5 to 10 years including 1 to 3 years of grace.
Given the exchange rate policy of the Government and assuming an annual average
world inflation of 9g in the next few years. real interest rates of 3-6% to be
charged by BNDE to ultimate beneficiaries would be equivalent to nominal rates
of 12-15 in foreign exchange.
34.       Ultimate Beneficiaries.  The proposed loan would provide term financing
to small and medium industrial firms with fixed assets not in excess of about
US$7.5 million equivalent (after project implementation), provided they do not
belong to an industrial group with consolidated equity larger than about US$15
million equivalent. The typical recipient would have total assets of about
US$3 million equivalent and a labor force of about 150-200 workers. On the basis
of a sample of subprojects undertaken by BNDE in the past, it is likely that
subsectors assisted under the loan would be diverse, with non-metallic minerals,
metallurgical, metal-mechanic and food industries accounting for about one-half.
Most sub-borrowers would request financing for expansion and about 25' would
submit export-oriented projects.
35.       Cost of Subprojects.  Based on BNDE's operational forecasts, the total
cost of subprojects receiving Bank funds would amount to around US$600 million
equivalent, of which an estimated US$180 million would be the foreign exchange
component. The proposed US$85 million loan would thus contribute to 14% of
total project cost and 47% of its estimated foreign exchange component. BINDE's
participation, including Bank funds, would amount to US$360 million equivalent
and US$290 million equivalent would be provided by development banks and ultimate
beneficiaries. On the basis of the above and an average subproject cost of
US$2.4 million, some 250 subprojects would be financed under the loan.
36.       Loan Repayment.  The administrative complexities arising from the
projected large number of subloan accounts and the potential participation of
22 banks and the two intermediary levels between the Bank and the ultimate
beneficiaries would make the use of a composite amortization schedule based
on the repayments schedules by sub-borrowers impractical. The proposed loan
would therefore have a fixed amortization schedule, consisting of equal semi-
annual payments of interest and principal over 9 years after a 3-year grace
1/ Including Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Goias, and the drought area in
Minas Gerais.
2/ Two and one-half percent for the least developed North and Northeastern
states, including Espirito Santo, Mato Grosso, Goias, and the drought area
in Minas Gerais.



- 12 -
period.  Portions of the loan repaid by ultimate benoficiaries but not immediately
due to the Bank would be reapplied by BNDE to small and medium industry subprojects.
(See Section 2.05 and Schedule 1 of the draft Project1 Agreement).
37.       Subloan Approval Procedures.  ENDE has grarnted to state and regional
development banks limited approval authority. The free limits vary betueen
TJS$1.0 million for the five most experienced development banks to US$300,000
for the others. These limits -- which are based on the past financial and opera-
tional performance of the intermediaries and the composition of their technical
staff and management -- are adequate and in line wfith the capabilities of the
development banks.  The Bank would delegate to UNDE extensive subproject approval
authority. Nevertheless' to ensure that the Bank would review a limited but
representative sample of subprojects twfo free limits would be set under the
proposed loan: US$2 million equivalent, normally representing a Bank participa-
tion of US$400,000, for D3MDE subloans to the five most experienced develonment
banks and US$1 million, normally representing a bank participation of US$200,000,
for 'he rest.  In both groups, however, the Bank would receive for rujriew uio
more than two subprojects per development bamk per year. Notwithstanding this
limit, however, all subloans for which more than US$2.0 million equlivalent of
the Bank loan would be used, would be subject to Bank approval. (See Section
1.02 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02 (a) of the draft Project
Agreement.) On this basis, the Bank is likely to review about hO subprojects
during the commitment period of the loan amounting to around 32S of the amount
to the loan. Based on BNDE's forecast, the Bank loan would be committed in 1½,-2
years after effectiveness.
38 .      Procurement and Disbursement.  It is expected that most of the sub-
borrowers' procurement would be local. Imported machinery and equipment would
be financed either by suppliers' credits or by the Bank loan. The loan would
be disbursed against 1007 of the c.i.f cost of imported machinery and equipment
and 20" of BNDE's disbursements for local procurement for siDprojects.  Under
those arrangements the Bank's average financing of an individual subproject
would be less than its average foreign exchange component, estimated at 30'Z.  To
ensure that sub-borrowers meet their procurement from the most suitable sources,
BNDE would satisfy itself during subproject reviews and supervision missions
that purchases made for subprojects are made with due regard to economy, and effi-
ciency. Domestic manhufacturers of machinery and equipment are adequately diver-
sified. competitive and not highly protected.  Overseas suppliers of imported
cap4tal goods are well represented in Brazil, and competition among them is keen.
BNDE has agreed as a candition of effectiveness of the loan to a-mend its regula-
tiOIIs to allow for the financing of direct imports of machinery and equiument
under its program for small and medium industries.  A further condition of effen-
tiveness of the loan would be the issuance by BNDE of an announcemel±& to the
state development banks and to the press that the proceeds of the Bank loan would
be available to finance imports (see Section 6.01 of tLe draft Loan Agreement).
Banco Nacional do Desenvolvimento Economico
39.       History and Ob3ectives.  BNIDE was created in 195? as a federal agency
to support the Government's efforts to develop key sectors of the economy.
In 1971, it was transformed into a Government-owned public enterprise, being granted
greater financial and administrative autonomy, under thie Secretariat of Planning
of the Presidency of the Republic. BNDE has become the Government's most important



I' a rti-cei al  i,.r  -,e '1 4V  it .inS'  Sn Jr   .,  e. *.o omen  II rs .1 a  l  i'
aE~~~~~~ T>5ne ,i  s 4 ','  t -;- b'>  -'S  ca ir,. Sf-~  H9l) lutIea(- CCUj)Fl'.w4-- !
~~ ~~                     to -t'ir:in-Z  t
wthi.ch aboait tf ,)o-t-r-ids- vU . n  ;-t        t ta t anc s--  t andl _: p.-. '1 i ub'  u
and 5' to agr:oS_l    ai-e a.,E,qC-   es    ' e-,c- rn  ce.-'e  role is. pl-,nnie-i .-v .
in c-,)in" ,7 ye3-' :  .-p ,  G.-' 'a.;^     e    a'         requ .7-ermntrs.-iT
cularlV for t}._- E: ,  i C-   ;_ '. .n1 __                 mediGu  ilndsU-.i
o, cap-rital a.^d i :;;e.-  di !_nt.-  d ,  , c.  TorDE pl ns to increase it.r, lenc dl-
t,h-rough interaP!e- i ar-ies froafl ~the  e-se- t L  o'r its totalI leniing to arounr  '  by
197d3. B'.DS-s plan of of Lpe n         Se-! '-l- identi-'ied with the priorities an-v
obJectives outl'lrod in lhe eu'd*a;. o-~-'rm,- S own development pi-an.
-YJe'.    M.Xcnar..-,ent and, Staf, '    h      Fgle manag ement consists of an Adm:.n.i.-
_ 7~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                      D
trati'.e Co-ur-c:it arm: a Board a" e.n ,_n - ,ire"tors h.eadSed byS the Preside,-;.  Thle
A cnir istrat ive 'Counci Ls comnosedc  refpesentati-7ies of the Ministries of Fin;nce.
Industiry ane Nines the Sec-et'ar4_t of Pa_n.'nnin  and reoresentatives of industry.
Qrdin-lar§v L 4t`e ;oun-ticil meets fou  :s a --er- to discuss and approve PThBY
overall ooli ci-es C;nd -orozrois . minC-l nff its rnvestment bul-dgat end finaniial
statements.  Diresetors are a=ointed 'cr a    ur-vear term by the Presi;ident of
t1he fleoublic. AIl are compeoItent a.nd =ox-''-rLenced professionals.  The 1Presi.dent
Of r.NSE is curr  ti,v in '_hs second term and has proven to be a partioularly ahle
and comopetentG aciri strato.
14.       17,'NwD &' s J -erations. 3DZ s re--ources, as of December 31. 1974h ,^iOe
to CR30. 3 bl lion  about urLu  S  I bilIon) a d consisted of it,s e quity, TCS.1
billion equivalent; doimestic borowings. U5:'15 billion ersalivalent  some  c    n
borrowirns. US$1O.4 billion e, -vvlent- 2-nd a sn-all amountr of short-term  denoL.
belon--ny to clients.   Fun`'s `-orn th.e Crove-nrentli re`ire-ent programs (PI3 Sn
PPASEP, see parag-raph 23) will continue to be t'he mainstuay of the bank's reso"rces;
3NBDE forecasts receiving about U      b-` billion during 7_975 ^rom these progr  -
increasing -to arounmid USS.0 hb ll'on '1(97. OtIher sources of funds inc lude vea-lv
Go.-ernment budgetar-Y glrnts. which enentuall are incorporated i!nto capital, a share
in tne natior,al Lax cmn `:nzaicial t-aaeti-iLons ad s-pciatl borroviig agreement-3 v,rit,h
the Central Barn and other offic,c_. fi-anci-l  nstintutions.  Practicll . all of
z3','Is do mstic t bo rrow ings c arry mone-. v c -rection-n.  T E Is loans al.so car--
monetar- correctio-n, with inter-e3s rates di-ferentinated according to, th.e needs
and roriorities assignrted b,, BJ'X'D_ to0 2articula: regions, sectors or aci-iv-rte7.
In recenit y,re a, s t'ere --as ceern a dranatic increase in BNDE1's overall
crrorationis, refl,ccting the above-menti-.oned increase in -its resource base and
substantial demauid for firancin,. 1-'DEs total cormitnento i.n real ten,is in    :
threefold bet-ween 1972 arLd 1, 74. reac:nir n  US$ 2'5 biI i-on Ln 19T7. I,endig to
snmall and medimizr indus'aies incresed from around US$75 million in l7O to IC)  '13
m-l'ion Ln I97L1 and du.ring the first seven months of 1975 about US$lOD niillia-
cui-valent was aD rovad For this type of' firm. BDE r5 total com1itments are
projected to increase about 151 in real terms between 197L-78, to TISM$59 billion
in 19T76. Basic industries (steel. fertl.izer, e-tc.) would absorb about one-';.hird
of the projected lending, capital gosds one- 2ourth, infrastrmcture one-twelfth
and onlending t'hrough inter.mediaries, -:cnmaril.y for sainl1 and med-um industries,
one -fourth.



ow p ols; i t Sc  c a -4- ' ,.i rt clli?;>. Lt z- -...  ^'o-< - ,- -  X.'" t.
T1, j)0E ! i  loaqn  p 4  )'  1  -r^n-er',m-j-  i;o :r,  3 -  1 .  1 .,.- t.  'e) a
fo n io0e ;I an iotr v  ovrnr prey Da               b-L-
-21,i s'actory . 1)  's caDital s`;a'uT-lr  aso als  d .     -t-
levelrage.  Its total deb/ravuity ra-to at. v  -; '.     .      i -o - 1    . e   i 9
sh o-lld allow the incti L-mtion ccn :6!- !.L'abl e *-' oom to +r-'-'  t'  --
tional exPansion. BPNiiD ha; a car,a-ek"ent -i.:lternall auditi'gd- o -Je.r--te
ap,nrt from vBerif'yirng finaneial st.:itenlen.t-  prepares iT!anage71O0Q re,
onerations and finmncial condition of the 'ntitution. '3n aL' C,ion. i"P    .
audited annually by goverent audi-tors and Ay 'rthur Yo-uln:,-. Cla'rk-scn an oOn,-
a qualified fi¶m1 of public acco-ntants .
.)4,.    BMDIE's lndirict Ln-i n        .    . LADE' C; r..- ,n, -L
,.-ents (UPA) is responisible for a:i L  1i.i l'  to ein"r'  in .'  d-  i no
state and regiolmil developrment           ad ._nis          i,     ,r.--ew
subprojects anTd supervises th,e            of 2                on c te  rv  o di-n
banm-s and 13 priv.ate investnen u           acmir1      t-e ,Or'ml fo     i
s.-nlall and meditum industries  dhi"'h wou1 d be the obj0 :t o  +,e l5aa1e sui,oth u1
the proposed project.
4i5.      PTA is hecded by a^ coJnu-,etent and dnr:nic ' :cusI.; esin-er, wan meoartS
directv>,- to BNDE's Pres:idenit. At he endc of Il-, lii. h'' 33 Turofsz ;ionuli, 
mn,zagers and a total staff oT 9h person.s. An anciasLion,a 10 to 12 senior :'o5#lssiona:.
w,iill be rec-uited s-ort> L .1   of thf o"'.' ia'         - wr    consis .. V -O
mlist ' cs a eli<irnieers, fIn'ic'I  1 Q  s  JL,  e r-rs a.nd st     - ' V  C
.e,rs expcr 1nce,  {otqei.er,  .' s capa;'wli tJ-  d-          O* d  o an
fo iuv)ar stren:gthemnd   To   n.lLs od, un.^,uo              ac. -l  p  r i   -;t, 
Iecruited develenmenlt bhn'."inAr specialits t  ol               ( a) w-o*iu-; out  cn-
dL- e  to mnnitor the- p.-irfo n_alnrce o  y  ,  j_ pi          1  01     .)      i r-J-'
tlhe operations of state and reg-ional dovel oa-.nt ms    -  :_-r ;?h ,2     and (c)
prepaLring, and. it?pi-berrientingoni--t.he--Jobv tra-il-l, invrurcm;Rs f'n:; dlevelooa-Tent banksl;. ThAe
foreign e"charnCe cos-t of thi's a6sistance,  1hich we    ma-exit to aboat US 130 .00
would be financed out of the proceeids of th e oroposed loa.n (see Sec,tion 2,0'J(B) of
the draft Loail Ag,reen,ient) .
Sta. te and Regional Develoor-: rt B r-
4m6.      Historv and Ob j ecnves .  n re s,oonse to a  cl'o-  e     for ---;L t4tiors
spe(_ia'iKe  in -terr  tar -in,s G- 'mi's O   ,a;e _''" u-an so-  c.' v'' '0). ---. :an,s waere
established in tihe early 19   . -  e.        ho.w-v -  & 0-  j C-C) C)n7 iG.' o'C i ")oa
when the Central Panl1 r fltJuced 1.        elation: far uhe''-' -"r!  "     o.a. sune-
tions.  Presently, the       ' -   fJ    ' O5tlt_,tms, C;K ;'e-7r   .h  '   -c;ianJ
development banks (BanLco do Norclest., do 'v-  1 '3m-co      1 do Pesanvolvaan its do
Extreemo Su1 and Banco da AxaaLonas), 11  re  u1 L-r'd   s, -'e       oracat barhn, and
& are mixed state deb-anokim-'nt banks (    state coioerc-' ar ans ..ith a dcn velop-
menital lon,g-tor  loan pDrtfolio). A I1 o. _93-azil9s         t I  'U tories o- -v
access to such' aLn iast.itutiorn. .01BS' ob ;ec      u_  ,DO- ' aaa as_; v_       the
development of agr'icultural, indus Lz      - _,'-.'-;ie c  i -'s; encOUraa':r
ProIn-ting, iinoor`, sub-t5itutt:CaLn an1dex-  -ae':etsd orots; . iarelatLar pr4i'ac
-unvesttr.er's in tha :ba ,sic  ect,ors ci thtle eoonas;T; . in:: ;- , ;:. c ,I'>-' ';-
-s ructure D,ojects.



- i5 -
47.       Ownership and Management. At year-end 19Y4, the development banks'
share capital totalled about US$256 million equivalent, of whicn regional develop-
ment banks accounted for 35%, full-fledg-ed state development banks for 50% and
mixed state development banks for 15%. Tney are wnlolly or near wholly ownled by
the Federal or State governments, and with the exception of trie regional develop-
ment banks, which are administered by tne Federal Government or regional councils,
all development banks are under the authority of their respective state govern-
ments. All banks are subject to the overall supervision of the Central Bank of
Brazil, which inspects their accounts. Day-to-day management is carried out by
a president presiding over a board of directors usuallv appointed for 3-5 year
terms.
48.       Staff.  Staff strength varies among development banks ranging from about
53 for the Banco do Estado de Piaui to about 4,000 for Banco do Nordeste do Brasil.
Though total staff has been increasing rapidly in recent years, some banks in the
poorer states are understaffed because salary scales are not always competitive
with the private sector.   Staff quality also differs among them.  In some, manage-
ment relies on competitive selection to ensure that staff meet minimum qualifica-
tions, while in others emphasis is put on in-house professional training. The
project's proposed technical assistance component (see paragraph 45) will help
to assist development banks in organizing their training capabilities.
49.       Operational Procedures and Practices.   While appraisal standards and
procedures of the larger banks are usually satisfactory, those of the Saln  er ones
can be improved. The weakest part of their appraisals lies in their financial
forecasts and economic evaluation; only a limited number of banks calculate the
financial and economic return of projects.   General qualitatiie considerations
and indicators such as employment generation and foreign exchange savings are
being used to assess the projects' desirability and developmnental contribution.
Regarding subproject supervision, about two-thirds of the development banks have
established formal procedures; however, few extend follow-up beyond the project
implementation stage primarily because of staff shortages.   BI311E is aware of the
above deficiencies and has already taken steps to strengthen the development banks'
technical capability.   The Plan of Action to be implemented by BNMDE under the
proposed loan would further contribute to improve subproject appraisal and follow-
up (see Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).   All development banks
have established satisfactory disbursement procedures, and all make periodic
inspections during project implementation.
50.       Operations.  In addition to their share capital, development banks can
raise resources by accepting fixed-term deposits, borrowing locally and .broad,
issuing bonds and debentures, onlending funds from official agencies and taking
up federal, state and raunicipal lines of credit and contributions. At year-end
1974, 52% of their resources originated from state and federal development funds
and programs compared to 19% for deposits, 15% for equity and 1h% for other
liabilities. BNDE and the Central Bank were the largest fund contributors.
Between 1971 and 1974, the aggregate loan and equity portfolio of development
banks increased 145% in real terms to US$3.4 billion, loans accounting for 95%
of their total portfolio at year-end. Lending to public entities is limited



(16') and -ith a fe- excenti!rns. a7ricultiral lfindir,- is not; simrificant.
Loans to small and medium industrie- as def7inod b-y RNDE ha:ve risen steadi.lv
accounting for about )5' of outstanc1ing clients.  At year-end 197Th, the
qualitr of the loan portfolio of development banks l-as satisfactory, i;itth a
low,; projortion of arrears.
,l.       Financial PosJtion.  The recent rapid( eapansion in lending acti,.'ities
by develorment banks has laro ely bteen -met b- increased borrovin.7.  Cf th.e
Cr.)17.7 billion growth in aggregate total assets ever the 1971-7) period, 7?c
was funded through debt and 27" throuc,h internally g7enerated funds and share
carital increases.  Reflecting this. the debt/eouity ratio of most development.
banks has steadily risen.  Moreo-er, in some cases, thelr profits have been
insuifficient to compensate for the effects of inflation on capital and reserv.res.
To assist the states in increasinp the equi.tv of their banks., ;NDE has no,\
instituted a prog-ram for financing equity contribultions of state governments
and has also increased the spre.ds to development hank.s under its onlendrin,
orerationc.  The Federal Gove-rnment has agrreed to umdertake a. studyj of equity
erosion rroblems of development banks and take the necessarv measures te
recapitalize them (see Section ).iOr) of the draft Toan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
5P.       The state and regrional development banking, s-ystem is a centril I.L-rt. of
the Government's efforts to support small and medium industries and achieve
regional decentralization or industry.   11owever. differences stil-l exist amol)urc
development banks in their project appraisal capability, th,e quality aind orq.etence
of their management and staff and the soundiess o0 their institutional and opera-
tional arrangements.  While the performTiance o:f t.he larger hanks is satisfaictor-y,
most of the smaller ones in the least developed states require upgrading.   FiND J
is ideally situated to help with this needed improvement.   It has been the princJpa
motivating factor behind the establishment and growth of the development banking
system. is currently its principal supplier of funids and is familiar with the pro-
cedures, operations and prohlems of the system.   -n w-nnction with the prnposed
loan, 3NDE will implement a Plan of Action to improve the effectivenes.; of state
and regional development banks.   The Plan of Action would be implemented during
the disbursement period of the loan and completed by the Closing Date (March 31,
1979). It would include steps to improve, inter alia: (a) BNDE's program of
supervision of development banks; (b) project appraisal practices, including the
wider use of financial and economic rates of return calculations for subprojects;
(c) subproject supervision work and portfolio control; (d) reporting and audit-
ing requirements; (a) preparation by development banks of operational and finan-
cial forecasts; and (f) preparation of procurement guidelines (see Section 2.08
of the draft Project Agreement and Annex 39 to the Apprais;l Report).
53.       Besides supporting BNDE's institution-building effort. the loan would
assist a segment of i.ndustry which traditionally has been hindered by difficult
access to term financing. The project's expected employment benefits would be
sizeable as it would help increase the sub-borrowers' labor force by 60', which
would correspond to the creation of an estimated 40,000 new jobs at an average
investment cost of about US$15.000 equivalent per job. Modernization of production
facilities and techniques would also help upgrade skills of trained and untrained
labor. Support of small and medium industries will also help to stimulate entre-
preneurshi.p, help balance the ownership distribution of productive assets and
foster regional decentralization of industry.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
5.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional do
Desenvolvimento Economico, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Features of the draft Loan and Project Agreements of special inter-
est are described in paragraphs 29, 30, 36, 37, 38, 45, 49, 51 and 52 of this report.
Special conditions of effectiveness are that (i) the Government has made arrange-
ments to make the proceeds of the loan available to BNDE; (ii) BNDE regulations
have been amended to permit foreign exchange financing for imported machinery
and equipment; and (iii) BNDE has notified the state and regional development
banks and the press that the proceeds of the Bank loan would be available to
finance imports.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 29, 1976






a.nMThY DATA - BRAZIl
ARELA                                               POPULATION                                   iiUO-SffJ
0,511,965 ha                                         9. s2ln         (mid-1972)
Per keni? ...able !.and
SOCIAL DIDICAITiRI
itofer.... Coutries
l19naa0     01970
ONR PRD CAPITA MS$ (ATISs bASIS) QI                                 6. u/                        741.         71)v 020/
71trade bith rate (per thousand)                                               311.                  n       I /0          p2 
Crude daath rate (Per thousand)                                   0           10                        7h-7 '             277
Inart mortality rate (Psi Lhnuesd lIve births)                   io 8        IlO                            8    7        1..   )
Ufae e),panta-y at birth (yas                                      0          6iI                'I          /0 77        72~. 
0mev rewndoottnn rata/g                         ~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~  ~~~~2.6  2.62.In .  o l
~~~pelatino groubt rate ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.0             2..9/n377                       .3,         1   <
Pa-PeIation gRnstb rote -urban-                        ~77                                         ., 21 
Age etru-t-r (paroot)
0.16                                           L~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~3 I, I               7A,7
65 ad noer                                                                     7-'   ~        "P          '14C       680
024 R'4_7 7                                   7          7.2 T7
Uban Ppootioti    as p-rnet nf.intai                            i,6/d       1 6
Fa ly pinnig: N" of anepnr t    nnats(tos)                               250                                             /
ANo. of nears (8 of ..arriad ass                .          i
T71u1limnr form   (thnnsaadc)                                72,2i        2960   a          1 3.20C       1,1I07 /f   5 3, 200"/a
Pern-tagv emplnysd to agtulos                                                )                10          17 7r       19. I
Psoe-tago   --eplnyad                                           .2 /f                         Ii           ¶Tr I7       .
INIXUX DJSTRIBUTION
Prent of  atianal onarniodby bigh-vt 5%                        20/k         33 Itk               /I v     21 /0 n
Peu   f nati.nal loom   ...sioed by highaot 2(4                 Tk 7(7   0  7k-                1t           t
P.,o.ni nt vof tiuoul Lanns  r...eivod by inm-t 20%                  7771a.
8 n-ed b   top 10% of os-en                                       ...~dby1~t4%  7 
N -und in   -11liod  10% of oss-
NLTADS NUJ.TRIN
Popelatton .  per pyiola                                        8.8 :0/                        ,110          110          Oo
P.pnluttoo Per curvng Poreno                                      ..          on 7n          [.20        3,0021
Popoltino Per inopit ta  bad                                    237         260               930         1501' /n       0
Par -aPits retorts supply as % of(roqutrmoto L          1         0 J2       i0O.              110          102          1.
Mr ompiti protei   ou pply, total (g-ras per day) -L6                   61    6                 65          96            26
lstbrts 7-i, years /7                                          ..          .                             .b10l
EDUCATION
Adj3atd /B priosry snbno   erollmen.t rattoJo                                130               106a        l 11  ~a!     1'0
Ad',   -,:Zy ..hbol                                       ~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~23  Y2 3  4161
lier   f sotnig provIded, first and asonod level                  13          13                12,           2 -         1
Vonational o..rollesot as % of san. sohool enrolIlment            19          [2                21o In       o:o 
Adut titesroy rate 6                                                          69l               81h                          ___9__9
HOitSIlg
AVerage ANo. nf peron.s per I..o (alban)                          .           1.0              2.2 /         ..1.0 / V
Peromat of ocnapied units mutant piped umberI/st                                                 ,i7   "b                  55,77t
Aoosms be e-tetritty (me % of total pupelatino)                               67/,               597   b_
P.roent of t~..ru  poPelatiost nanneutad to alm-t'ioity           ..          o2n
2%      OM, einer  p.r l00  popltatioo                            (o6          61  o            301A /o      02 /a        60I
Passenge  oas   erlfX pupelattun                                   7            9T 77           7  Ia        62 77-      117 T.
Kint,,   poe   onnumttun (khu p..                                 2          5L41 7.           Tt 7         047           0   7
-s-ritonooptioo p.o. kg per year                            3.3         .1.37 __          0.               77
Notes,  Figose, refer either to the lotest pvrtvds on in             nooooni of sn-trnunatal t-np..atars, biny ..sgtet, mod
Lh.Ie latet yean    Lateat periodo refer in prinniple tn             distribution by age mad sun of   ti-nal pOp.latio-s
the yeas   956-60 or 1966-70; tbe latest years to prro           /6'  p_otato tstandars(rorsno        for all on..otrien as -tish-
njple to 0963 and 1970.                                              11ehmd by USDI Eoononis Reevorh Se-Ioi. provide far a alneo
a The Par Cepito  ri C -eI-Lsasie , Ort narht pri-.o fnr           ailoma..o. of 80 g-an  of total protein par day, an  20 gras   of
Y-ao  oth-r th-.4 i000,-oalolted by the noe    nLsoiI4           a   Ima  aid poIse. nneo  of ahjoh 10 grane ehnod be    nia
isnhniqus Os i-he 4922 World Pooh ALIoy.                         protetin.  rhas standavil are sos-eat loarj than those of '55
12 A-erg   -00d- of daghtene p-r a-a       of rsprnduoti-            gran  nf total protein and 23 grass nf anti.l protein as an
vie.                                                             asarge for tns -oId, propn..sd by OAfI in the Third World Poond
Q  ipoL.i-on   1ynoth  ien urn for the dondve coding In            burvey.
1960 and 0970.                                                L lS. stdies bays mogg.sbtd tat, orude death rates of ohild.en
/N  Da4iy of popo,into   under 10 sod A5 and --e to ppula-           agen I through I nay be -54    o   first approottatine inda  of
Lion of agec 15-6b for age dapeodeny ratto ant to labor          eala-tritio..
fume. of ugem 15-61 f-orsononin depeedenoy ratio.            /D  P.arntage soo1led of uorootigpopolaIno of sohoul age
Fi AO rsfsraeo   standards represe n t phyalologoal re-            asdefined for .a.h co,-tryt.
qoirasmnts for onemn1ac mtivity and healtb, belting
In 1872;  It   1 071  /no   1960-72;  /d   Urban and ouburbaumoe      of nrensr,.o       ntr      f tavnpiiiond dietrinin;
/e  l1oon) i-io  of 2700) or core; 77     Eti-tat;  La&   1973;  At   Citios (sho) La-Ing 3,0,10b or -aro lohubitoote;
77  toiolulitu- jungle populutiom;         L.   Based ou 0    mple tbbolotion of ocrnsue r-t-.on     /k  Coo-oni-ly aotloo
F~pvp1oiAno    /1  Hnuesbolls;  In    1969;Zl/n   1967; /n     Anpitul pen--oe;      L.   1968; 7g    lefinition 0060000
Urt'buo;   Is   Estinote bead on sanpia tabulation of cencue raturs.       Betto refer, to dulbuo      t   Tmoldy On o-t0 ldc
-  /a   Iunlnliog cenl-po.~nanet due1lings;    Li   1970-75; /-     Data refr. to housIng unity;   L.   1965-714;  7X   Gnom
enrotim.eot aibob ioolades o-rmgs studeot;     /i   The oat sua'olenut matIns to 1971 .... 816 A 111% for bacio nod
seCnodumy   dnin reopeotlocliy;      /ao   05 Years and   -or;  /ob   Tneida only;   Ion   R-sd no a 20 perneot san PI-
tobuo tino of 000003a retn-..
I  This -nporne nubh thy Paint hIne ftg.- of iS$5302 for 1922.      lie. Atlas fglgnr  doo- Io Leflont meoct-oleni
otoa.--000t0 oniobh.       .oo .smIted io 20% tunre-ar  in octinatno of GDP.
*- Japean ham been selentad em an  bje-ti-s -ouny sto      eti  Dramilita nemso G    b.aet abouh., partloulan intorsat IAn Jnp-'e
d-ve1opeental noan    1on -as, tie ton g-cenean have .nodnoted Joint otudien to identify possible fotonet,noi
pnnble9oenf DB-il on Lhbasiso of the      ap-mieno. nf Japan.
inb Mo'y I , 11.22



EB3IR3MIC DEVELOPMEINT DATA                                                    Page 2 of 3
(T. sillifons of U.S. dollars)
Actoal          Estimsated     Projected       Average Ann.al Growth Rates          As_p-srent_o1  GUY
1971     1972     1973    1-974      19 75    1980    1970-74    1974-76   1-9-76-80    -1971'     1974      tO, o
NATIORAL ACCOUJNTS 11                     Amo.ta in 1973 prices and exchange fates
Cros  d.- erlc product               62,710   69,608   77,891   85,369   88,357    121 .700    11.0        4.2        7.0      130.,6    I1(1.     101. 
Gains fro. tee-.o of trade(+          - 609    - 598      -      - 469    - 965      - 819..                                   - 0.16       fl -     0'." I.
Cros. d-eetic iso-                   62,101   69,010   77,891   84,900  105,278    120,881     11.0        1. 7       7.1       00.0,    toi,(     I0
Imports (l-1. 8NF01                   5,199    6,357    7.577   10,073    9,183     11,264     24.0       -5.6        5.7        7.1,     1I.'       '
Exports (i~port c-pacity)             4,098    5,218    6,596    5,987    6,705     10,764     10.7       10.2       10.6        /.2        ".      Ef.
Reso-rc  gap                          1.101    1,139      981    4,086    2,478       480        .          .i
Coe--ptlo-                           50,437   54,547   61.529   66,578   69.020    91,586       9.7        3.0        b.5       82.7       70.4,   7~,.!
ln-ets,-t                            12,765   15,602   17,343   22,408   20.910    29,775      712.0       0.5        7.1        16.2     26.4      24.1,
Domestic onvlngo                     11,664   14,463   16,362   19,322   18,432    29,295      16.4        6.7        8.9       17.8      il1)1     24.2
N.ti.n. I ... ngs                    11,078   13,784   15,655   17,722   17,482     27,933     17.0        5.8        9.0       46.9       21.5     2i1.
ERCiiANDISE TIRADE                              Ann.al dat. at ..rrent pri...                                                    A. percet 00 I,t,(l
Impo-ts
Capitol g-1,1                       1,241    1,734    2,163    3,108    3,569      7,522     31.0       14.3       16.7      71.2.8  ~     1      1". I
ntreIoego,ods (end,. fuels)  1,210    1,451    2,233    5,091     4,636     7,343     57.(       -5.4,      12.6       35.?2      .1.      35. 1
Fuels n-d r-lolod -terials            316      449      727    2,812    3,022     4.344      6 3. (I     5.6        8.5       7, .4     22.6      20.5
of which: Petrl-eom                 251      344      605    2,495    2,650     3,711      71.0        4.3        8.1       4.9        19."    17.1)
Co-noaptioc goods                     478      598    1,089    1,519    1,221      1,610     42.0      -11.0        6.7      15.0       172.1      7.2
Total mrhdieieporto (fob)           3,245    4,232    6,192   12,530   12,448     20,819     5(1.0       1.9       12.5      1 ()1. 0   1 (11.1  11~ 10. 0
E.p-tl
P,,i-ny p-od-ct   (-ccl. fuels)     2,315    3.063    4.718    5,606    6.987     13,142     25.,'      17.0       14.4      84.11      M'.4      41.2
Fuels .ed r-loted materials            19       36       52       65        70       101     55.1        7.4        7.7                   (.0     I'..2
of  hicho:  P.etne,  s 18                     lb       16       30l      30         43       .          .                   ((4         0.'.    '1. 2
Manf-cto-ed goods                     570      892    1,429    2,297    2,793      8,231     55.0       22.5       24.11      4.9        168.1    '1'. I
T,U,Io --rhnsd-us esports (fob)     2,904    3,991    6,199    7,968    9,85(1    21.474     31.0       18.6       17.73     I)(.0.l    I 0(1. 1)  III' 0
Merchacdi,e tro,de indi-e                                 1973-100
Export PrIc- 1-0(-                     67       73      100      134      140        201     10;.4       0.6        8.2
7epo-t prIce i,dex                     77       82      100      065       156       21'     14.)        7.9        6.4
T-re  of trade Index                   67       89      150       93        88        93       .
E.port -o1-   ioden                    70       88      1130      96       113       172     ,1(.      13.         8.8                    -
VALIJI ADDIEDI 1Y SECTOR /2.             Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                          A. percent of CIPr
AgrI..IL.rse                          8,850)   9,252    9.535    10,346   10,7601   13,995      6.8        4.5        5.5       14.6       15.1     14.)
led.stry and ininlg                  L5,875   18,066   20,776   22,480   23,222     32,805     12.0        4.2        7.7       32.7       32.8     33.6
lervices                             25,554   28,532   32,140   35,620   36,860     50,777     11,1        4.3        7.0       52.7       52.1     52.1
Total                                50,279   55,810   62,451   68,446    70,842    97,577     11.0        4.2        7.0      100.0      1130.11  100.0
PUBJLIC FINANCE                          Annual data at 1973 Drices aed exchange rates
(Federal Gneoxe-t)
C-rect recIpts                      6,168    7,316    8,629    9,757    10,399    15,540     16.9        6.2        9.0        9.4       11.5     12.0
Current expenditures                3,553    3,558    4,227    4,577    5,032      7,107      8.5        9,1        6.9        S.9         .1      5.9
Budgetury sav Ing                   2,615    3,758    4,402    5,180    5,367      8,433     28.0        3.5       11.0        3.5        4.]      2.11
Other poblic saing                  3,393    3,669    4,832    5,625    6,348     10,510     15.5        9.0       10.7        5.0        4.9      8.7
Pob,lic sector fixed in-etment      6,404    8,037    8,705    9,662   10,344     15,198     15.8        7.5        8.0        9.8       (1.4     12.J.
LIS nilll-n
DETAIL 0ON PUBIIC SECT15R            at193pceo,dE
INVESTM3ENT PROGR8AMI                      1971-74  2 of Total
Social Sectors                             4,504        11.3
Ag,icultore                                  187         0.5
Ind.stry and Mining                        6,06,0      15.2
Po..er                                     5,499       13.8
Transport -nd Co.-..ic.tions               7,384        18.1,
Regional de,,elop.ent                      1,44,1       3.6
Other /3.                                 1471          37.0
Total expenditure                         39,782       100.0
FlNANCING
P.blic sector -oiogs                    33,674       84.t,
Foreign borrowieto (set)                 5,762       14.5
Domesetic borrowings                       351        0.19
Total finanoing                         39,787      100o.1,
LABOR FORCE AND OUITPUT PER WORKER                 Total -labor force                 Value sdded per worker (1970 prices & ego. ratec)
In millions      % of½ztotal   ~    1960-70      30.1U.. dollars    7% of average         1960-70
1960    1970     1960    1970    Growth rate      1960      1970      1960    1970     Growth rate
Agri-Iltore                           12.2    13.1    54.0    44.4          0.2          --        402      --       33          -
Indu-try                               3.0     5.3    13.3    18,0         5.6           -       2,222      --      182          -
Servlce                                7.4    10.1    32.7    37.6         4~.1          --      .706.~             140         -
T.t.1                                 22.6    2 9.-5  1 00.0  100.0         3.1          --      1,220      --      100          -
noct applicable
not -avla.ble
/I The -atio-l     -c-ots data w   re rsised in September 1974 tc reflect data obtained Es the 1970 xessu.. a. OFD in 1970 has been rev,ised opw-d
by uboo~t 207., .ainly in the industrial sectter. Reviiso.s of the data for years prior to 1970 still hav,e not been completed.
12 Net domestic product at factor coat.
/3 Occludes ficoooi.l inve.t.est.
May 14, 1979



fiNNEX I
LALAiCE OF PAYXINTS, ERXTEiGAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Acttual             Estimated                                      Pcolacted
1971     Ac972       1973    Eetir_        19d I75    t976       1977       1978           9        1980       198 5
Ert      (     OFc.  i)A)               3,175      4,272     6,596       8,568     10,614    L2,116     14,D01     16,422      19,507      23,271,    52,488
lirts(in ,ffNM2                                    5 205     7 577      14 585     t4lcoc    15.228 -i.5           18.683      20,965      24.308     50,261i
balance  -H)     74j33     .'133     ~~~~~~~~~~- 961        - l 3, 9 22  -312    1,5          221        -1,458     -1,3         2.7
Interest (net)                         -  302     _  359, -    514      - 650      -1,273    -1,469     -1,747     -2,009      -2,272      -2,503      -3,F5'1
Direct ivestmt inme                    -  166     -  202    -   220     _  240     -  270    -  304     -  342     -   384     -  432      -  486      -  F77
Workers' remittance                         -         -          -           -         -                    -           -           -          -           -
Current Tcsnsfere (net)                     14         5         27         23         40        50         50          50         50          50          5D
pai  M  on current account             -1,307     -1.489    -168        -6 ,       -545       4.833     -4.81      -4.6&       -4.113      -3,974      - 656
Private direct investment                 168        3t8        940        845        940     1,035      1,135       1,275      1,435       1,615       2,909
Medium- and long-term loans
Disbursesents                           835      1.099     1,376       1,8O0     2,025      2,226      2,443      2,654       3,004       3,307      I,715
-Repeayinsts                          - 441      - 525     -  670      -  720    -   779    -  745     -  793     -  868      -1.062      -.,282     -_
tiet disboreSeents                         W94        74        70E6     1,D80      1,245     1,481      1,650       1,796      1,942       2,115         3 1 1
Fir.ncial credits
DisbursenentE                         1,442      3,396     3,151       5,G17      3.819     4,509      5,054      3,258       5,386       5,587       1.11,
-Repayments                           -  641     -  660    -1105E      -1,30       _1,579 -i           -2.946     -3.7t5      -4,13C      -_150ti     -fr4 Li
aist diebursererts                         o ii1   2,536      2,093      3,717      2.,40     2,319      2.107       I,543      1,255       1, 180     -2.hd11
Capital tranaactn.  s n.e.i.              504        626        377        194
CFsangr  n reerves (--increase)       -  56     -2,565    -2,42E       1,049     L[lD8         _          _           _      -  519      -  83t      --
GRANT AID LOAN CON]lCtt¢NS                                                                                                        Actalta                aiJoace
1971        1922        1973       1574
-         DEBT AND DEBT SERVI7CE
Medium- end long-tern loar.s                                                         p.hlic debt outstandIng
I8RD                                    256        455        169                    3nd dlsburse3                4,122       5,209       8,491,     4I,69b
IDE                                     133       IBO        250                  Intere9c on public debt            211        296         41,        41,f
Governments                             199        249        270                  Repayment on public debt          60E        758         Y5i       1 1jI81
Suppliers                               324        35(Q       725                  Total pabltc debt Le-rv5ce(groeelSlE       i,C54       1.393       i 700
lDond.                                    -         -          80                  Other debt aervic   (gro-k        607        S20       1,175       1 570
Loans n.e.i.                            121        100        110                  Total debt service (net)L7      1,364      1,744       2,242       2,671?
Total medium- and long-tern loans       1,033      1,334      1,684         --       Burde     export earnings   7
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                     Actual debt outstanding on, March 31. 1974
Poblic debt service                25.8        24.7        20,b5      i7.4
Disbursed only               Percent Total debt service                  43.6        40.8        34.1        11.2
IBRD                                                 708                    10.0     TDS + Invest. Inc.                 48.8       45.6        37.3       314.0
1D5                                                  2323.
Governmsnte                                        18 70                    253.8    Average Terms on
S.ppliers                                          1,008                    14.2
Bonds                                                149                     2.1     Int. as % prior year IX? & D        6.0         7.Z        8.01        9. 
Flnancial credit.                                  2,875                    40.5     Anort. an 7. prior year Do & D     17.4        18.4       17.3        Ib.f
Public debt n.ei                                     273                     3.8
Total puhlic debt                                  7,095                   100.0     19RD debt outs. & diob-rned       347        484         647         872
IBRD as X public debt 0 & D         8.4         8.8       10.i)        9.f
IBR1 ss 7. total debt u 7. D        5.2         5.'         5.1        5.1
BRD -s 7. public debt seroice       4.2         4..        9.o         4.3
iBRD as 7. total debt service       2.5         2.9        2.9         2.7
CI .ross debt service less inteert earned on reserves.                                                                                Ia- 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of November 30, 1975)
Loan                                                           Amount Less
No.      Year               Borrower               Purpose    Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Mil1ion)
Twenty-Two        Loans fully disbursed                           612.2
h03      1965     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito I                    Power            57.0           0.1
h04      1965     Centrais Eletricas de Sao
Paulo - Xavantes              Power           19.8
4741/    1966     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Estreito II                   Power            39.0           1.0
565      1968     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Porto Colombia                Power           22.3            1.4
566      1968     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande         Power           26.6            1.1
656      1970     Banco do Nordeste do Brasil      Industry        25.0            0.5
677      1970     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas
Marimbondo                    Power           80.0             8.7
728      1971     Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio         Power            70.0           18.0
755      1971     Brazil                          Education        8.4             5.3
756      1971     Brazil                          Ports            45.0           36.2
757      1971     Superintendencia de Agua e      Water
Esgotos da Capital            Supply          22.0            12.8
758      1971     Companhia Metropolitana de       Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo       Control         12.0             7.0
786      1971     Rede Ferroviaria Federal        Railways        46.0             5.3
797      1972     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry        64.5            10.7
812      1972     Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                        Industry        63.0           15.6
813      1972     Brazil                          Roads            89.0            9.1
1/  In two tranches.
2/ Undisbursed balance $19,624.60.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
Loan                                                         Amount Less
No.      Year               Borrower              Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
828      1972     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry       64.5           13.1
829      1972     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao            Power           60.0           2l,4
853      1972     Brazil                          Land Settl.      6.7           6.3
85t      1972     Brazil                          Roads           51.0           6.1
857      1972     Banco do Brasil                 Grain Storage  23.7
868      1972     Brazil                          Livestock      26.0            b.6
887      1973     Light-Servicos de Eletricidade  Power          20.0           19.h
923      1973     Centrais Eletricas de Furnas -
Itumbiara                     Power          125.0          114.9
924      1973     Brazil                         Agro-Ind.       54.0           42.5
1008     1974     Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV   Power           81.0           81.0
1009     1974     Banco Nacional de Habitacao     Water Supply    36.0           35.1
1067     1974     Brazil                          Education      23.5           23.5
1074     1975     Rede Ferroviaria Federal        Railways       175.0         175.0
1075     1975     Brazil                          Roads          110.0         110.0
1151-/   1975     Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry        95.0           95.0
1152-/   1975     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry        60.0          60.0
1153     1975     Brazil                          Agriclllture    23.0           23.0
1171i/   1975     FEPASA-Ferrovia Paulista        Railways        75.0           75.0
Total                                        2,411.22/      1,050.7
of which has been repaid to the Bank
and others                                   280.4
Total now outstanding                        2,130.8
Amount sold                   36.8
of which has been repaid    10.3              26.0
Total now held by Bank                       2,104.3
Total undisbursed                                           1,050.7
1/ Not yet effective.
jX No IDA credits have been made to Brazil. A loan of US$12.0 million for the
Rio Grande do Norte rural development was approved on December 11, 1975.



ANNEX I I
P.&e 3 of 10
B.  STATEMENI Of IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF    N0VE37Di   30, 1975)
Year                                  Obligor                                             Type of Business                        Amo-nt in USS million
Loans    Equity     Tot;l
1957                   Si-ees do Brasil Cia. de EletToiid.de                              ELectrti-l rq.ip--ent                   2.00         -      2.00
1958                   Oikraft. S.A. Celulose e Papel                                     Pulp and Paper                         1L20                 1.20
1958                   D.L.R. Plasti-os do Brasil, S.A.                                   A.tonotite Parts                       0.4           -      0.45
1958                   Willys-Overland do BrasHl, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                             Motor Vehicles                         2.45                2.45
1959                   Cosapanhia Mineira de Cieento Portland, S.A.                       Cement                                  1.20         -      1.Z0
1959                   Ch.opi-n CelSlone, S.A.                                            Pulp                                    4.00         -      4.00
1966119681
1972                   Acoa Villares., S.A.                                               Steel                                   8.00      1.93      9.93
1966t1969              Papel e Cel.lose Catarinense, S.A.                                 Putp -nd Paper                          4.06      2.13      7.19
196711972              Ultrafertil, S.A. - lndustria e Comercto de
Fertilizantes                                                    Fertilizers                            8.22       3.03    11.25
1969                   Petroq.imica Un[ia, S.A.                                           Petrochemicals                          5.50      2.88      8.38
1970                   Poliolefinas, S.A. Ind.stria e Coo,erclo                           Petrochemicals             .. 50                  2.88      8.38
1971                   O.iteno, S.A. Indastria e Co-ercil,                                Petrochetiscals                         4.60      1 44      6.04
1971                   Tndustria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                              P                                     4.90          -      4.90
1972/197+,             Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                             Cement                                 29.14      3.20     32.34
1973/1974              Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - WSICUA                        Steel                                  67.00        50 S     .50
1973                   Capital Market Developorent F'nd - FUMCA2                          Capital Market Develop"ent              5.08         -      5.00
1973                   Empresa Be Desenvolvinento de Re     ..sos.                        Nickel Mining and
Minerats - CODEMIN, S.A.                                           Refining                            26.00       4.40     30.40
1974                   Industrias Villares, S.A.                                          Ee-ators and Indosrrial
Equipment                             6.00         -      6.0O
1974                   Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                                   Textiles                               31.00               31.00
1975                   Cspuava Csrbohos Industriais Ltd.                                  Carbon Back                           6.18       1.08      7.26
1975                   Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                             Petrochmernal1 10.00                                      10.0
Total Gross Cooanitrments                                                                                232.40     30.47   262.67
Less Canrellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                  170.68       b.(5   1B3.7;
Total Comsitmrents Ns Held by IFC                                                                        bl.71      __ . ?s  8 .10
T6tal Undisbursed                                                                                        3143        1.43 . l 2 -.8



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJEXTS IN EXECUTION V/
(As of November 30, 1975)
There are now 31 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:  US$57 and US$39 million lIoanL
of February 26, 1965 and December 194 19 6  Effective Dates:
Jul  5, 1965 and June 1, 1967;_Closing Date:  icember 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
404       Xavantes Hydroelectric Project: US$22.5 million loan of
February 27, 1965; Effective Date: June 1, 1967; Closing Date:
June30197   The original project was completed in early 1971
(after a delay of about 18 months). The project had been amended
to include the installation of equipment for an associated trans-
mission line. In March 1972, US$2.7 million was cancelled from
the remainder of the loan. The remaining US$18,000 undisbursed
is expected to be disbursed shortly against retention payments.
565       Porto Colombia Hydroelectric Project:  US$22.) million loan of
October 23, 1965; Effective Date; February 18, 1969; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. Changes in the project layout and
design have increased substantially the local cost, which will
be covered by ELETROBRAS, without, however, significantly affect-
ing the economic justification for the project. Construction
work is completed. The Closing Date of the project was postponed
from March 31, 1975, the original date, to December 31, 1975 to
allow for disbursement of retention payments.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page   o of 10
Loan No.
566       Volta Grande HydroeLectric Project: US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closinp
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties. This problem and prize
escalation greater than estimated increased powerhouse construc-
tion cost by 72%, but, as the original cost was very low, the
resulting cost per kW of generating capacity is still attractive.
The project is virtually completed and the fourth and last gon-
erating unit is expected to be in commercial operation shortly.
The Closing DIate of thol project was postponed a second time to
June 30, 1976 to permit payments to continue on several purchases
already placed. The original Closing Date was January 31, 1975.
656       Industry:  US$25 miliun loan of Februair 16, 1970 to Paric¶ d-
Nordeste do Brasil       ffective Date: August 31. 1970:
Closing Date: Decemnber 31, 19. The loan has been ful.!, (,m-
mitted. The Terminal Date for submission of subprojects, orig-
inally June 30, 1972 and pofstponed to June 30, 1973, was post-
poned a second time to June 30, 194 to give BNB an opportunity
to submit subprojects in an adIvanced stage of preparation.
Accordingly, the Closing Date, originally June 30, 1974 has been
postponed a second time to December 31, 1975. Slow utilization
of the loan was due mainly to BNB's unusually burdensome
procedures and its emphasis on larger scale projects, for
which financing from other than World Bank funds has been
available.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project: US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
increased excavation and concrete work resulting from poor rock
foundation and increased equipment cost will result in an in-
crease over the original cost estimate of US$42 million of 15%.
This does not significantly affect the economic justification
of the project.
728       Salto Osorio H-ydroelectric Project:  U.:$70 m:i Ilion loan of Apri5
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; ClosingDate: May 31, 1977.
The construction of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plan is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. A cost overrun of about US$72 mi-llion,
due to increased equipment and construction costs, is foreseen,
but this does not significantly affect the economic justification
of the project. The cost overrun is being financed by loans from
ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction of the trans-
mission system, delayed to allow a re-examination of ELETROSUL's
market, is proceeding with corresponding modifications.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
755       Education ProJect: US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971;
Effective Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1977.  Progress on the construction and equipment of the project
schools is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the project
implementation is behind the original schedule due to initial
delays in establishing and staffing the project unit and because
of subsequent changes in project content. The original Closing
Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1271; Effee-
tive Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project is now proceeding satisfactorily, although
there have been further delays and cost overruns which will be
financed by the Borrower. The Government has approved legislation
which converted DNPVN from a government agency to a public corpora-
tion, PORTOBRAS. PORTOBRAS, with the assistance of management
consultants, has been improving port operations in Santos. The
National Port Development Study financed under the project is
nearly completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water SuPP1Y Project:   US$22 million loan of J une :L,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1976. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds winch are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was concluded on December 18, 1974. During the last four
months progress has been slow but improvements are expected with
new management of the company which took office recently. The
original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan of
June 21, 1971; Effective Date: January 13 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. A review of the original design resulted in its
modification to exclude the discharge if raw sewage and a related
treatment facility. Bidding procedures are in progress for other
portions of the project. As a result of the modifications in the
project, the loan amount was reduced to US$12 million. The Govern-
ment has consolidated all the water and sewerage companies in the
state into a single company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agree-
ment with the new comparn was concluded December 18, 1974. Progress
of the project is expected to improve with new management which took
office recently. The original Closing Date was June 30, 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
786       Railway Project - MBR: US$L6 million loan of August 2-,, I )7L;
Effective Date: February 1;, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, l' 78.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and
equipping of the Borrower 's main workshop at Jaceaba. The pur-
chase of equipment for this worksho p was delayed because of a
change in the location of the workshop resulting from the Govern-
ment's decision to build a new railway line between the ci-tie
of Belo Horizonte and Volta Redonda. To allow additional time
required for the purchase of this equipment, the Closing Date,
originally September 30, 1975, was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project: Us$64.5 million loan of Februariy ',i
1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date: July 1,
1976. The latest cost estimate is US$617 million, an increase of
Ft    46% over the appraisal estimate due to design evolution,
unforeseen site works and increases in local construction costs.
The project is now 70% complete and is about six months behind
the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project: US$63 million loan of April 11,
1972; Effective Date: July 28, 11972; Closing Date: June 1, 197v.
The latest cost estimate is US$952 mill-ion, an increase of about
67% from the appraisal estimate due primarily to design evollution
and increases in local construction costs. The project is 75%
complete and is about six months behincd the original schedule.
813       Third Highway Construction Project,: US$89 Plillion loan of'
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December L, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 80% completed,
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is slightly above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost sub-
stantailly- below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements are
lagging behind the appraisal forecast, but have improved during
the past year.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project:  US$66.5 mi.ll ion loan of .Jtre L4,
1972; Effective Date:  October 5, 1/72- Closing Date:  JanU;ary _l,
1977. The latest cost estimate is US$720 million, an increase of'
about 52% over the appraisal estimate due primarily to increased
local construction costs. This will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 65%
complete and is about nine months behind the original schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of
June 14, 1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; ClosiaLg
Date: September 30, 1979. The contract for the civil works
was awarded to an Italian-Brazilian consortium in May 1973,
and the project is proceeding according to schedule. An
anticipated 50% cost overrun is being covered by local and
foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:   US$6.7 million loan of
July 24, 1972; Effective Date: February.15, 1973; Closing
Date: December 1, 1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, t. be financed by
public financial institutions, will be significantly higher
than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the
release of public funds for farm credit and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project
staff delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed
in 1978 as envisaged.
8514      Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 60% completed
but behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be
comDleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract
cost is above the appraisal estimate.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27,
1972; Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. After some initial difficulties with the
appraisal of subprojects, the project had been progressing
satisfactorily. However, in April 1975 the Government
adopted a national grain storage financing program involving
subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on October 28, 1975,
the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the uncommitted
balance (about 20%) of the loan.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:   US$26 million loan of
December 19, 1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977. The project is proceeding normally.
The loan has been fully committed and is expected to be
disbursed as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
887       Power Distribution Project:   IJS$20 million Loan of April ½,
1973; Effective Date:   July 31, 1973; Closing Date:  June   ,
1976. Principally due to difficulties encountered in preparing
bidding documents and delays in deliveries of equipment and
materials, the pro,ject is ab'ut one year behind schedul,e.
Complete delivery and instal'lation of equipment and materials
to be financed by the loan will probably take until July 1976
and a postponement of the Closing Date may be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:   US$125 million loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date:   October 30, 1973; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1962.   Contracts for both the concrete
and earth works have been awarded and procurement of main
equipment is on schedule.   Commissioning of the first
generating unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months
behind original schedule due to delay in awarding of the
civil works contracts.
924       Ago-Industries Credit Project:    US4mlio     n loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1975. The Central Bank expects to
complete connitument of project funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso TV Hydroelectric Power Project:   US$81 million
loan of June 17, 1974; Effective Date:   April 15  1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently
reviewed the progress of the preparation and implementation
of plans for resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir. These plans are now at
an advanced stage of preparation, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun.
The rural population is to be offered the opportunity of re-
settlement in a promising new agricu-Ltural area in the
Corrente River region in the western part. of the State of
Bahia. Those who prefer to remain near their present houses
will be resettled in new villages on the edge of the future
reservoir.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of
June 17, 197Z; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: August 1The State Water Supply Company
changed its name from Companhia Mineira de Agua e Esgotos
(COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais
(COPASA-MG). The project is progressing on schedule.



ANNJ~ A
Pageo      10
Loan No.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of Deiwl.u'
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and
is expected to be completed by the target date. Project iaple-
mentation units have been established in all eight project
states and these, together with the main project unit, PREMEN,
are working well. The pre-investment studies in the Northeast,
financed under the loan, are underway and are expected to
yield useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17,
1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closin Date: December
31.2 1979. Project execution is progressing reasonably well
and appropriate steps are being taken to strengthen proJect
management and control. Cost estimates for the Investment
Plan, of which the project is a part, have increased substman-
tially on several items. The Borrower is therefore prepa-ring
a revised Plan in which items with low priority will be post-
poned or delayed. This revision is not expected to affect the
project items. Tendering for Bank-financed items is on schedule.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 1?.
1975; Effective Date: Mey 15, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1979. Project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily,
but it is behind schedule due to initial delays.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Folders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
Aug st 4, 1973; Effective Date; November 25, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31 1979. Project execution has started.



AEINEX IlL
Page 1 of 3
1'RRAZ;IL
DEXVELOH4ENT BAINKING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Federati,ve Republic of 3r.il.
Beneficiary:           Banco Nacional do Desenvol-'iLnento Economico (11NBDE).
Amount:                USM58 million equival]ent.
Terms:                 Payable in 12 years, including 3 years of' grace.,
at 81-d interest per annum.
Relending Terms:       Loan proceeds would be rad(le a-vaJl idbl.e by the
Government to BNDE at the sn.me tei-iis atnd corndi.-
tions as the Bank loan.  BNfTDE would relend the
loan proceeds, in cruzei.ro,; t- t  st.te zan 6
regional development banks (SDBs) for small-
and medium-scale industries.  Interest rates
to final beneficiaries would be regiornally
diffarentiqted with real rates ranging from 3-6%.
Subloan principal would be subject to fulL
monetary correction.  The SDB, wiLl retain a
spread of 2½1,-2%. Subloans would carry maturi-
ties from 5 to 10 years, including 1 to 3 years
of grace. The foreign exchange risk will be
assumed by BNDE.
Project Description:   The project comprises the financing of the estab-
lishment and expansion of privately owned small
and medium enterprises; technical assistance to
BNDE to strengthen its capability for dealing
with SDBs; and a Plan of Action to strengthen the
operation of SDBs. The proposed loan would finance
a portion of the foreign exchange cost of the
project.
Final Date for Sub-
Project Submission:    Two years after date of Loan and Project Agreements.
Free Limit:            Investment projects eligible for proceeds from
the loan for which BNDE provides refinancing in
excess of US$2,000,000 for the five most expe-
rienced SDBs (normally a Bank participation
of US$400,000) and US$1,000,000 for the rest
(normally a Bank participation of US$200,000)



ANNEX iIII
Page 2 of 3
will be referred to the BaIk for approval, wituh a
maxiinivam of two per SDB per year. Nctwithstanding
this limit, hiowever, all BNDE subloans in which
Bank participation exceeds US$2.0 million would be
submiitted to the Bank for approval.
Procurarent;           Through normal comnercial charnels.
Conmititment a-ad
Disoursene t:          Commitmeent of the loan is expected by March 31,
1978 and full disbursernent by March 31. 1979.'
Disbursement would be made in the fonr of re-
imnbursing BNDE to cover 100% of its outlays for
the purchase of irported machinery and equipment
and 20% of its outlays for local procaxement
under subprojects.
Sizmary Income                                                     1974
Statement of BTDE:                                    (In US$Millions. at a rate of
incoyne                            Cr$6a62 ner dollar)ai
Interest, commissions and
monetary cor.rection on
loans                                     751,3
Dividends, bonuses and
other income                               39.1
Total lncome        ,
Expenses
Int erest, corymissions and
monetuary correction on
borrowings                                226.6
Salaries                                    0 °8
Cther administrative and
general expenses                           15.3
Total Expenses      2g?o 7
Net Profit                                  537.7
Sunwiarv Balance                                            December 31_ 1974
of E:       (sn eTS$Millions, at a rate of
Assets                             Cr$7.44 per dollar)
Current assets                            173.8
Loans outstanding                       31085
Investments                               759.3
Fixed and other assets                     29.8
Ah2 2 Q



ANTNEX II1
Page 3 of 3
Liabil. ties
Current liabilities
Domestic borrowyings                   1.
Foreign currency loans
Other liabilities                         *1.
Tota1. Liabilities  Y'PT.T?
Equit                                      ; 
T-tl' LiJabilit:ies
an d Fou4ity        -]
Technical
Assistance:             BNDE wiil engage con uita,ants (26 Inan mont
to provide technical as-;itance to BNI)i. in)
implementinig the Plan o1 A,tion to in,prove
the operations of the state and regional
development banks
Appraisal Report:       932a=BR of Januar,y 22, A1976.



,,a6t z \ # "t~~~AMAPA 
.                                                        %  $!  I  {(  X  M A  T  O X  t  q  B  vA H I ' 'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F6TALEZ A
PE RU|.Boo , R                                                                                             D      '. ,. ispmlA
.                                                               f  1/  k  )L  \  fJ  \o ,,-7 .,,.,  q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TAE
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,TR                     At GOINI       GRANDEre,
*/   t'  J5>-'/~~~~~~~ , Xare,,i,g,DE NRTE NAT,
sok                   t/                 >/       tCftcF      j          X  , 9VIBRIA                20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.  River5     gg  y_,     f      f           )7io  oto                      [t)   5   P:<       05~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./N  FE
7  190  2o0  370  roD  Y)O   )  ) U R ,ue U~~~ A T g                                          , B A  H'.rfE-'.FAv
P~~ E R _                                         Rd re So S t-
,   Dw   7g      <         BUENOS AlRESi>\.\^ > NtJ                                             ir 9  r,o-   fr   ,1.~~~j~ G   1 A 



