CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1206-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Development Banking Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
Dated March 1, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO (hereinafter called
BNDE).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-five
million dollars ($85,000,000), (hereinafter called the Loan), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower has agreed to make available to BNDE
the proceeds of the Loan; and
WHEREAS BNDE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section .1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Proj ect
Section 2.01. BNDE shall carry out the Project described in
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, and conduct its operations
and affairs, in accordance with sound financial and investment
standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management
and in accordance with BNDE Regulations and the Lending Policies.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of the Loan Agreement, BNDE shall apply to the Bank for
approval of BNDE loans (other than BNDE free-limit loans).
(b) When applying to the Bank for approval of a BNDE loan
(other than a BNDE free-limit loan), BNDE shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together
with a description of the Enterprise to which the sub-loan is
going to be made, an appraisal of the Investment Project prepared
by the Financial Intermediary in question, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan), the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan, a statement by BNDE saying
that such Enterprise meets the conditions set forth in paragraph
1(a) of the Schedule to this Agreement, and such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by BNDE to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account in respect of a BNDE free-limit loan shall contain a sum-
mary description of the Enterprise to which the sub-loan is going


﻿to be made and of the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan), the proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan,
a statement by BNDE saying that such Enterprise meets the condi-
tions set forth in paragraph 1(a) of the Schedule to this Agree-
ment, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.
(d) Except as the Bank and BNDE shall otherwise agree, ap-
plications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of para-
graphs (b) and (c) of this Section shall be furnished to the Bank
by BNDE before two years after the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The agreements providing for BNDE loans shall
provide that if a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
a Financial Intermediary in advance of maturity, or if it shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value
by the Financial Intermediary, the Financial Intermediary shall
repay to BNDE the amount of the BNDE loan corresponding to such
sub-loan or part thereof repaid in advance or disposed of for
value.
Section 2.04. The BNDE loans and sub-loans shall be denomi-
nated and shall be repayable in cruzeiros.
Section 2.05. BNDE shall make adequate provision satisfactory
to the Bank for the re-utilization, in the lending program included
in the Project, of the proceeds of repayment of the principal of,
and of payment of interest on, BNDE loans, to the extent that such
proceeds are not required for purposes of servicing the Loan.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. (a) BNDE undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, all sub-loans will be made on terms whereby the
Financial Intermediaries shall obtain, by written contract with
the Enterprise or by other appropriate legals means, rights ade-
quate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, BNDE,
and the Financial Intermediary in question including the right of
such Financial Intermediary to:
(i)       require the Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accord-
ance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain ade-
quate records;
(ii)      reouire that (1) the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of
the sub-loan shall be purchased at a rea-
sonable price, account being taken also of
other relevant factors such as time of de-
livery and efficiency and reliability of
the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality
and the competence of the parties render-
ing them and (2) such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project;


﻿-6-
(iii)     inspect, by itself or jointly with repre-
sentatives of BNDE and the Bank if BNDE
and the Bank shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construc-
tion included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(iv)      require that the Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice; and that such in-
surance cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods;
(v)       obtain all such information as the Bank or
BNDE or the Financial Intermediary shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Enterprise; and


﻿0 -
(vi)      suspend or terminate the right of the
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of
the sub-loan upon failure by such Enter-
prise to perform any of its obligations
under its contract with the Financial In-
termediary.
(b) BNDE shall cause the Financial Intermediaries to exer-
cise their rights in relation to each Investment Project in such
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the
Bank, BNDE and the Financial Intermediaries, (ii) comply with
their obligations under BNDE loans, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.07. BNDE shall furnish, or cause to be furnished
to the Bank, all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, the BNDE loans, the sub-loans,
the Enterprises, and the Investment Projects.
Section 2.08. BNDE shall:
(a) take such steps as shall be appropriate to assist the
Financial Intermediaries to upgrade their project appraisal and
follow-up procedures, planning and budgeting, internal and exter-
nal auditing procedures, arrears control, and reporting to BNDE;
and
(b) employ experts in development banking to assist BNDE
in carrying out the action specified in (a) above. The qualifica-


﻿- 8 -
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment of such
experts shall be satisfactory to BNDE and the Bank.
Section 2.09. (a) BNDE shall, at the request of the Bank, ex-
change views with the Bank wit?. regard to the progress 'f the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BNDE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BNDE of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿0  9-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BNDE shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project and of ea-i, 3,NDE Loan and to reflect
in accordance with consistentlr maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations and financial condition of BNDE.
Section 3.02. BNDE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank,
as soon as available but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its fi-
nancial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and finan-
cial statements of BNDE and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. BNDE shall: (a) starting fiscal year 1977, an-
nually prepare three-year operational and financial forecasts cov-
ering at least the operations of the Area de Operagbes com Agentes
of BNDE, and (b) furnish to the Bank such forecasts.


﻿- 10-
Section 3.04. The Bank and BNDE shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre.
sentatives with regard to the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of BNDE and its subsidiaries, and of the Financial
Intermediaries, and BNDE shall furnish to the Bank all such infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of BNTDE and its sub-
sidiaries, and of the Financial Intermediaries.
Section 3.05. BNDE shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agree-
ment and any relevant documents.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BNDE hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, ca-
ble, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For BNDE:
Banco National do Desenvolvimento
EconNoico
Av Rio Branco, 53
Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
BADEC                              2122466
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BNDE may be taken or executed by the Presi-
dent or such other person or persons as the President shall desig.
nate in writing.
Section 5.03. BNDE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evi-
dence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of BNDE, take any ac-
tion or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by BNDE pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DO DESENVOLVIMENTO ECONOMICO
By /s/ Marcos Pereira Vianna
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Sergio Barcala Baptista
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE
Lending Policies
1.   Sub-loan terms and conditions
(a) An Enterprise shall: (i) have fixed assets amounting to
not more than the equivalent of 500,000 National Trea-
sury Bonds (ORTNs) after carrying out the Investment
Project; provided, however, that such Enterprise does
not belong to an industrial group with consolidated
equity amounting to more than 1,000,000 ORTNs equiva-
lent; (ii) be owned directly or indirectly by indivi-
duals resident and domiciled in Brazil; and (iii) be
engaged in an industrial activity which in the judgment
of BNDE is of interest to the economic development of
Brazil.
(b) An Investment Project shall consist of the establish-
ment, expanding, modernization and/or relocation of an
Enterprise.
(c) Sub-loans shall: (i) be made for a term of not more than
10 years and not less than 5 years, including a period
of grace of not more than 3 years and not less than 1
year; and (ii) carry an interest rate of 3% per annum


﻿- 16 -
in Region I,* 5% per annum in Region II* and 6% per
annum in Region III,* plus adjustment based on the ORTN
price as calculated in accordance with the regulations
in force on the date of this Agreement.
2.   BNDE loan terms and conditions
(a) Financial Intermediaries shall meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in the PACOTE Regulations.
(b) Amortization schedules of BNDE loans shall conform
to the amortization schedules of the respective
sub-loans.
(c) BNDE loans shall carry an interest rate of 0.5% per
annum in Region I,* 3% per annum in Region II* and
4% per annum in Region III,* plus adjustment based
on the ORTN price, as calculated in accordance with
the regulations in force on the date of this Agree-
ment. A commitment charge of 0.1% per month shall
be paid on the undisbursed portion of approved
loans.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the States of the Bor-
rower are grouped in three categories as follows: Region I
includes the North and Northeastern States, Espirito Santo,
Mato Grosso, Goias and the drought area in Minas Gerais;
Region II includes the States of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
Catarina, Parana, Minas Gerais (except for the drought area),
and Rio de Janeiro; and Region III includes the State of S9o
Paulo.


﻿- 17 -
(d) The participation of BNDE in the financing of an
Investment Project through a Financial Intermediary
shall not exceed 80% in Region I, 70% in Region II,
and 60% in Region III, of the total cost of such
Investment Project.


