Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF091199 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Grant Agreement 
 
(West Africa Regional Biosafety Project) 
 
between 
 
UNION ECONOMIQUE ET MONETAIRE OUEST-AFRICAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility  
 
Dated February 2, 2008 
 
Page  2
Page  3
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF091199 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 2, 2008, entered into between: 
UNION ECONOMIQUE ET MONETAIRE OUEST-AFRICAINE (UEMOA) 
(“Recipient”), acting through its Commission; and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(“World Bank”) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
(“GEF”).  
WHEREAS  
(A) Pursuant 
to 
R
èglement
 no. 03/2007/CM/UEMOA, dated April 6, 2007, 
the Recipient has adopted the Regional Program for Biosafety of the Union Economique 
et Monétaire Ouest Africaine (the “Program”) to establish an operational institutional, 
legal and regulatory biosafety framework for the compliance by its Member States with 
the provisions of the Cartagena Protocol. 
(B) 
The Program is expected to be financed through the Recipient’s own 
resources as well as funds from other sources, as follows: 
(i) 
The Recipient intends to allocate an amount approximately 
equivalent to 5,200,000 Dollars to the financing of the Program, for 
activities not financed by the proceeds of the Grant, through its Regional 
Economic Program, funded from the proceeds of the French budget 
support to the Recipient, managed by 
Agence Française de 
Développement
.
(ii) 
The Recipient intends to request from the European Commission 
(EC) an amount of 6,000,000 Euros for the financing of the Program, 
including the mitigation of related socio-economic risks and the creation 
of a network of national biosafety laboratories. 
(iii) 
Since 2006, the Member States have received support from the 
United Nations Environment Program for an aggregate amount 
approximately equivalent to 400,000 Dollars for the financing of 
activities included in the Program. 
Page  4
-
2
-
(iv) 
Burkina Faso has received from the International Development 
Association (IDA) financing, in the form of a credit, for the Agricultural 
Diversification and Market Development Project (Cr. 4195-BUR), of 
which an amount approximately equivalent to 1,200,000 Dollars has 
been allocated to the financing of national activities included in the 
Program. 
(v) 
Burkina Faso has received from IDA a credit of SDR 2.6 million 
for the financing of selected activities of the Program, as further 
described in the Financing Agreement between Burkina Faso and IDA. 
(vi) 
The GEF accepts to finance part of the Program, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and in full reliance on 
the availability of the funds described in subsections (i) to (v) above.  
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”) with the modifications set forth in 
Appendix 2 to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this 
Agreement.  
Article II  
The Project 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and to the objective of the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project, except the activities included in Part A (ii) of the Project, 
which shall be carried out directly by Burkina Faso, in accordance with the provisions of 
Article II of the Standard Conditions. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the Project, except the activities included in Part A (ii) of the Project, is 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article III 
The Grant 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to five million four 
hundred thousand Dollars (US$ 5,400,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project, 
except the activities included in Part A (ii) of the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
Article IV 
Additional Remedies 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (i) of the 
Standard Conditions consists of the following: 
(a) 
Ineligibility
:
IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient ineligible to be 
awarded a contract financed by IBRD or IDA. 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Grant 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it improbable that the 
Program, or a substantial part thereof, can be carried out. 
(c) 
The Recipient has not established to the satisfaction of the World Bank 
that adequate resources for financing of the Program are available from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the Recipient’s obligations under the Agreement, 
when (i) resources necessary for the financing of the Program from other sources than the 
World Bank are not provided, or (ii) the right to withdraw funds under resources 
necessary for the financing of the Program from other sources than the World Bank has 
been suspended or cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, or (iii) resources necessary 
for the financing of the Program from other sources than the World Bank has become due 
and payable prior to its agreed maturity. 
Page  6
-
4
-
Article V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied: 
(a) 
the Recipient has recruited an independent auditor for the Project, with 
terms of reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the World 
Bank.  
(b) 
The Recipient has adopted a Project Administrative, Accounting and 
Financial Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank.  
(c) 
The Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
(d) 
The Recipient has established a Steering Committee 
(Comité 
d’Orientation et de Suivi du Programme)
 with terms of reference, 
composition and resources satisfactory to the World Bank. 
(e) 
The Recipient has established a Coordination Unit with terms of 
reference, composition and resources satisfactory to the World Bank. 
(f) 
The Recipient has recruited the following key staff, with terms of 
reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the World Bank, 
for the Coordination Unit, which is operational: 
(i) 
a biosafety specialist who will also act as Regional Coordinator; 
and 
(ii) a 
communication 
specialist. 
(g) 
The Recipient has recruited an accountant and a procurement specialist, 
with terms of reference, qualification and experience satisfactory to the 
World Bank, and has designated an internal auditor for the monitoring of 
the Project. 
(h) 
The Recipient has caused two staff members, including the Director, 
from the Recipient’s 
Direction des Approvisionnements et de la 
Page  7
-
5
-
Comptabilité Matière,
 to be trained under the Procurement Guidelines 
and the Consultants’ Guidelines. 
(i) 
The World Bank has received a legal opinion issued by the Recipient, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, confirming that this 
Agreement has been duly authorized and signed by the Recipient, and 
that its provisions are binding and enforceable on the Recipient. 
5.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has 
not entered into effect by the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless 
the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a 
later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify 
the Recipient of such later date. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Article VI 
Re
cipient’s Representative; Addresses 
6.01. T
he
Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the President of the Commission of the Recipient. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest Africaine 
380 avenue du Professeur Joseph Ki-Zergo 
Ouagadougou 01 – Burkina Faso 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
5554BF  
 
(226) 50 31 88 72 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
AGREED at Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
UNION ECONOMIQUE ET MONETAIRE  
OUEST AFRICAINE 
 
By /s/ 
Soumaila Cissé 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the  
 
Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ Célestin Bado 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient for the establishment of an 
operational institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety framework for the 
regulation of living modified organisms.   
The Project, which is part of the Program, consists of the following Parts: 
Part A 
–
Adapting and disseminating regional methodologies to assess and manage 
risks related to living modified organisms 
Adapting and disseminating regional methodologies to assess and manage risks through 
support in: (i) assessing and evaluating existing tools and guidelines used or in 
preparation in Member States for risk assessment and management, and comparing them 
to recognized international methodologies; (ii) establishing a national reference 
laboratory with a regional dimension for biosafety in Burkina Faso, and strengthening its 
capacities for its eventual accreditation; and (iii) consolidating the existing tools and 
developing regional common approaches that meet recognized international standards in 
risk assessment and management, inspection, and monitoring and evaluation of living 
modified organisms. 
Part B – Establishing an institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety 
framework 
Establishing an institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety framework, through 
support in: (i) preparing a regional law and regulation on biosafety; (ii) creating an 
institutional framework to accompany the dissemination and implementation of the legal 
and regulatory regional biosafety framework in the Member States; and 
 
(iii) strengthening regional institution capacity building for the implementation of the 
Project. 
Part C – Implementing the Institutional, Legal and Regulatory Biosafety Framework 
in Member States who have ratified the Cartagena Protocol, with an initial focus on 
selected commodities
 
Implementing the national and, when in place, regional institutional, legal and regulatory 
biosafety framework in Member States who have ratified the Cartagena Protocol, in both 
cases through support to inform, sensitize, and strengthen the capacities of the 
stakeholders.  
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
The institutional and other arrangements for the Project are further described in the
 
Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual and the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
1. 
The Steering Committee  
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout the implementation of the Project, the Steering 
Committee (
Comité d’Orientation et de Suivi du Programme
)
with terms of reference, 
composition and resources at all times satisfactory to the World Bank, which shall, 
inter 
alia
,
include the following:  
(a)  
The Steering Committee shall be responsible for the overall guidance and 
monitoring of the Project implementation. 
(b)  
The Steering Committee shall be composed of representatives of the 
Member States’ ministries in charge of environment, the Recipient, the Economic 
Community of West African States, and civil society, including regional producer 
organizations and regional non governmental organizations. The Recipient’s and Member 
States’ technical and financial partners involved in the Programme shall be invited to 
participate in the meetings of the Steering Committee as observers. 
2. Regional 
Coordination 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, at all times during the implementation of 
the Project, a Coordination Unit, with terms of reference, composition and resources at all 
times satisfactory to the World Bank, which shall, 
inter alia
,
include the following:  
(i) 
The Coordination Unit shall be responsible for the overall 
coordination and implementation of the activities of the Project. 
(ii) 
The Recipient shall maintain the following key staff in the 
Coordination Unit, each with terms of reference, qualification 
and expertise satisfactory to the World Bank: (A) a biosafety 
specialist, and (B) a communication specialist. 
Page  12
-
10
-
(b) 
The Recipient shall also maintain, at all times during the implementation 
of the Project, each with terms of reference, qualification and expertise satisfactory to the 
World Bank: (i) a Financial Management Specialist, (ii) a Procurement Specialist, (iii) an 
accountant; and (iv) an internal auditor. 
3. 
The National Coordination 
The Recipient shall support the Member States in establishing a national coordination for 
the implementation of the Project including the following: 
(a) 
the national entity in charge of biosecurity (which shall act as national 
correspondent), shall be responsible, at the national level, for the implementation of the 
activities of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
a National Biosafety Committee, shall be in charge of the monitoring of 
the 
Project’s activities at the national level.   
4. Project 
Manuals 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual, and shall 
not, unless the World Bank shall otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof 
which in the opinion of the World Bank may adversely and materially affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, and shall not, unless the World Bank 
shall otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion of the 
World Bank may adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project.
 
5. 
Environmental and Social Assessment and Mitigation Measures  
(a) 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications set forth in the Environment 
and Social Management Framework. 
(b) 
Except as the World Bank shall agree in writing, the Recipient shall not 
abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the provisions of the 
Environment and Social Management Framework, when in the opinion of the World 
Bank, it may adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project. 
Page  13
-
11
-
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Recipient’s Completion Report 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports, in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions, and on the basis of the indicator set forth below in 
 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one (1) month 
after the end of the period covered by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicator referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consists of the following:  
·
Percentage of applications received by the national competent authorities 
for field trials and commercial releases that concern crops of high 
priority for the Recipient’s territory, as defined in accordance with the 
Recipient’s agricultural policy, which have been processed (approved or 
declined) and reviewed on the basis of the science-based risk assessment 
and management procedures established by the reference laboratory with 
a
regional dimension established under Part A (ii) of the Project.  
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare the Recipient’s Completion Report in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report 
shall be furnished to the World Bank no later than six months after the Closing Date.  
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard Conditions. 
2. 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim un-audited financial reports for the 
Project are prepared and provided to the World Bank as part of the Project Report, not 
later than forty five days after the end of each calendar quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements for the Project, including the 
Financial Statements related to Part A (ii) of the Project, audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  The audited 
Page  14
-
12
-
Financial Statements for each such period shall be provided to the World Bank no later 
than six months after the end of such period. 
The terms of reference of the independent auditor referred to in paragraph (a) of 
Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall include the review of the Recipient’s Financial 
Statements for the Project and those of Burkina Faso for Part A (ii) of the Project, and the 
preparation of two separate reports, one for the audit of the Project, with the exception of 
Part A (ii) of the Project, and the other one for the audit of Part A (ii) of the Project. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General 
1. 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines. 
All goods and services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in:  
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004, and revised in  
October 2006 (“Procurement Guidelines”) in the case of goods and works, and 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ 
services; and 
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for 
the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan”). 
2. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of particular 
contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding (subject to understand the term “national preference” 
as regional preference extended to bidders from the Member States). 
Page  15
-
13
-
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following methods, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of goods for those 
contracts which the World Bank agrees meet the requirements set forth in the 
Procurement Guidelines for their use:  
(a)  National Competitive Bidding(*);  
(b) Shopping; and 
(c) Direct Contracting. 
(*) 
“National Competitive Bidding” includes all the provisions applicable to 
“International Competitive Bidding”, modified as follows: 
 
(i) notification and advertising: mandatory publication in at least one 
newspaper widely circulated in each of the Member States, with the option to 
also disclose on UNDB online and dgMarket 
 
(ii) currency for payment and bidding documents: CFA Francs 
 
(iii) time for preparation of bids: at least four weeks 
 
(iv) bidding language: French 
 
(v)  no national preference 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultant Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultant services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultant Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for procurement of 
consultant services for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan:  
(a)  Least-Cost Selection;  
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications;  
Page  16
-
14
-
(c) Single-source Selection; and 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants.  
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the World Bank:   
(a)  The first two contracts for goods and non consulting services procured on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding; each contract for goods and non 
consulting services estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and 
each contract for goods and non consulting services procured on the basis of 
Direct Contracting; and  
(b) each contract for consultant services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; each contract for consultant services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more; each contract for consultant services procured on the basis of Single 
Source Selection; and the three first contracts of consultant services procured 
by a firm.   
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank. 
All terms of reference for the selection of consultants shall be submitted to the World 
Bank for prior review. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(includi
ng
the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as 
revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement 
pursuant to such instructions) to finance Eligible Expenditures, as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 2 below.   
Page  17
-
15
-
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures which can be financed for 
Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of 
Expenditures Financed 
(exclusive of Taxes)
(1)  Consultant services, Audits 
and Training 
4,100,000 100% 
(2) Operating Costs 
800,000 
100% 
(3) Unallocated 
500,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
5,400,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
June 30, 2012.  
Section VI. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
No later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date, or such later date as 
may be agreed upon by the Recipient and the World Bank, the Recipient and the World 
Bank shall carry out a mid term review of the Project, covering the progress achieved in 
the implementation of the Project.  The Recipient shall prepare under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the World Bank, and furnish to the World Bank about three months prior 
to the beginning of such mid term review of the Project, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to this Agreement, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of such report, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives of the Project during the period 
following such date. The other technical and financial partners involved in the Program 
will be invited to participate in such mid term review. 
Page  18
-
16
-
2.
 
No later than twelve (12) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
retain the services of an independent consultant with terms of reference, qualification and 
experience satisfactory to the World Bank for the preparation of the report referred to in 
paragraph (1) above for the mid term review.  
3. 
The Recipient shall allocate on a yearly basis the resources needed for the 
financing of the Program. 
Page  19
-
17
-
APPENDIX 1 
Definitions
 
1. 
“Cartagena Protocol” means the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the 
Convention on Biological Diversity, adopted in Montreal, Canada, by the 
Conference of the Parties to the Convention on January 29, 2000. 
2. 
“CFA Franc” means the currency having legal tender in the Financial African 
Community. 
3. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the document 
entitled “
Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale
”
prepared by Mrs. Song 
Li and Mrs. Suryna Ali, with the collaboration of Mr. Maman Farouk and Mrs. 
Zourata Lompo, at the request of the Recipient and dated March 4, 2007.  
4. 
“Member States” means collectively Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea 
Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo, the members of the West African 
Economic and Monetary Union. 
5. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including for office space 
rental, operating costs and maintenance of offices, equipment and vehicles, 
utilities, communications, bank charges, supplies, salaries of contractual and 
temporary staff, cost of travel and supervision, per diem, but excluding salaries 
of the Recipient’s civil servants
.
6. 
“Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual” means the 
Recipient’s guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the World Bank to be used 
for the purpose of implementing the Project, including in the areas of fiduciary 
organization, accounting, financial management, and procurement, as such 
guidelines and procedures may be amended from time to time in agreement with 
the World Bank, and such term includes any schedule to the Project 
Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual. 
7. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Recipient’s guidelines and 
procedures satisfactory to the World Bank to be used for the purpose of 
implementing the Project, including in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, 
coordination, social and environment, and other provisions related to the 
institutional organization, as such guidelines and procedures may be amended 
from time to time in agreement with the World Bank, and such term includes any 
schedule to the Project Implementation Manual.  
Page  20
-
18
-
APPENDIX 2 
Modifications to the Standard Conditions 
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:   
The reference to “Member Country” in the Standard Conditions means the Member of 
the World Bank in whose territory the Project is carried out or any of such member’s 
political or administrative subdivisions. If the Project is carried out in the territory of 
more than one member of the World Bank, “Member Country” refers separately to each 
such member.
 
