 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14792

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 08/20/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P096058                                                      Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: West Africa Regional          Project Costs (US$M):                       24.30                11.60
                         Biosafety
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                       10.50                 9.10
      Sector Board:        Environment                  Cofinancing (US$M):                        0.00                 0.00

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                     11/13/2007
                                                              Closing Date:               06/30/2012            05/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Central government administration (93%); Crops (7%)
          Theme(s):        Biodiversity (67%); Environmental policies and institutions (33%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               George T. K. Pitman      Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project was part of the larger Regional Program for Biosafety of the West African Economic and Monetary Union
adopted in 2007. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 8) stated that the project development objective was:

"to establish an operational institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety framework for the regulation of living
modified organisms."

The Global Environment Objective (PAD, p.8) was stated as:

"to protect regional biodiversity against the potential risks associated with the introduction of Living Modified
Organisms (LMOs) into the environment."


The Financial Agreement (p. 7) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Grant Agreement (p. 8) stated the project
development objective as:

"to support the West African Economic and Monetary Union [Recipient] for the establishment of an operational
institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety framework for the regulation of living modified organisms."


The development objective and associated indicators were revised through a Level I restructuring on July 5, 2011, the
Restructuring Paper (Annex 4) stated the revised objectives as:

"(a) Strengthen the institutional, scientific and legal capacity of the WAEMU Commission and Member States in
relation to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety in the sub-region, and (b) support the preparation of a draft Regional
Regulatory Biosafety Framework."

This is a fully blended IDA/GEF project sharing a common Project Development Objective (PDO). This Review uses
the Bank’s development objectives as the benchmark for evaluation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/05/2011

 c. Components:
  A. Adapt and disseminate regional methodologies to assess and manage risks (Appraisal Cost: US$7.4 million
equivalent, Actual Cost: US$9.3 million equivalent). This includes three subcomponents:
(i) assess and evaluate existing tools and guidelines used or in preparation in Member States for risk assessment and
management, and compare them to recognized international methodologies;
(ii) establish a national reference biosafety laboratory with a regional dimension in Burkina Faso and strengthening its
capacities for its eventual accreditation; and
(iii) consolidate the existing tools and develop regional common approaches that meet recognized international
standards in risk assessment and management, inspection, and monitoring and evaluation of living modified
organisms.

B. Establish an Institutional , Legal and Regulatory Regional Biosafety Framework : (Appraisal cost: US$8.7 million
equivalent, Actual Cost: US$1.2 million equivalent). There were three subcomponents all fully financed by GEF:
(i) prepare a regional law and regulation on biosafety;
(ii) create an institutional framework to accompany the dissemination and implementation of the legal and regulatory
regional biosafety framework in the WAEMU Member States; and
(iii) strengthen regional institution capacity building for the implementation of the Project.

C. Implement the biosafety frameworks and build capacity in Intellectual Property Rights (Appraisal Cost: US$8.2
million equivalent; Actual Cost: US$1.1 million equivalent). This component supported implementing the national
and, when in place, the regional, institutional, legal and regulatory biosafety framework in West African Economic and
Monetary Union Member States who have ratified the Cartagena Protocol, through support to informing, sensitizing,
and strengthening capacities of the major stakeholders, especially producer organizations, on the national and
regional regulations and their implications for the environment and socio-economic development.

The following components /subcomponents were revised after a Level 1 Restructuring on July 5, 2011:

A. (ii) upgrading a network of national biosafety laboratories in the remaining seven West African Economic and
Monetary Union member states.

B. Preparing a draft regional regulatory biosafety framework that included: (i)preparing a regional regulation on
biosafety; and
(ii) identifying an institutional framework to accompany the dissemination and implementation of the legal and
regulatory regional biosafety framework in the member states.

C. Increasing the human, institutional, legal and regulatory capacity of member states on biosafety to implement the
Cartagena Protocol on biosafety: strengthen the human, institutional, legal and regulatory capacity of member states
to implement the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety through training and study tours, including on Intellectual Property
Rights.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost. The total program cost was estimated to be US$24.3 million and the total project cost at completion
was US$11.6 million or 48% of the appraisal estimate. The reasons for this reduction was "(i) the non-existence of
cost recovery mechanisms due to the fact that the regional biosafety framework was not adopted (i.e., US$0 million of
US$8.2 million estimated at appraisal); and (ii) low counterpart funding (i.e., US$2.5 million of US$5.6 million
estimated at appraisal (ICR, p. 21)."

Financing. The project was to be financed through two IDA credits totaling US$ 5.1 million (US$3.9 million for the
West African Economic and Monetary Union and US$1.2 million through the Agricultural Diversification and Market
Development Project (P081567) and a GEF Grant of US$5.4 million. At project completion the actual amounts
disbursed were US$4.8 million, US$3.4 million, and US$0.9 million for GEF Grant, IDA Credit, and Burkina Faso IDA
credit, respectively. Countries benefitting from the GEF Grant were the Republic of Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali,
Senegal, and Togo. Activities in Guinea-Bissau and Cote d’Ivoire were financed from parallel financing provided by
the French Development Agency. It was also expected that the project would receive US$8.2 million of leveraged
funds from the European Commission, regional governments and industries through cost recovery mechanisms but
this did not happen.


Borrower Contribution . The West African Economic and Monetary Union was expected to contribute US$5.6 million of
counterpart funds and actually contributed US$2.5 million.

Dates. The Mid-Term Review was conducted on April 4, 2011, about 16 months later then planned. Project closing
was extended by 23 month and the project was restructured three times. The first restructuring was at Level 1 on July
5, 2011; the second Level-2 restructuring was on May 1, 2012, when the closing date was extended by 12 months to
June 30, 2013; the third Level-2 restructuring was on June 4, 2013 when the closing date was extended by 11 months
to May 30, 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Original Objectives
Substantial.
The project objectives were relevant to the implementation of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety that was ratified by
eight West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali, Senegal, Togo,
Cote d’Ivoire, Guinea Bissau, and Niger.) The primary challenge was to ensure sustainable natural resource
management and protection of biodiversity with regard to the emerging use of biotechnology in the region, particularly
for cotton. The decision of some WAEMU countries (Burkina Faso, Benin, Mali, Senegal and Togo) to conduct field
trials on transgenic cotton as well as other transgenic cash crops carried important risks, not just for the countries who
conduct field trials, but for the entire space due to WAEMU’s common market and custom of seed sharing across
national boundaries. Thus all WAEMU countries requested the need to develop strong safeguard mechanisms to
ensure that Living Modified Organisms (LMOs) are used safely. Objectives were also relevant to strengthening
generally weak technical and institutional capacity, and the safeguarding intellectual property rights for transgenic
crops.

Objectives were relevant to the 2006 GEF Biosafety strategy which promoted sub-regional cooperation as an effective
means of enabling information sharing and harmonization of legal frameworks to maximize the use of institutional,
financial, technical, and human resources in the region. Objectives were also consistent with the GEF Biodiversity
Strategic Priority No. 3 on capacity building for Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety implementation and within Strategic
Priority No. 4 on the generation and dissemination of best practices for addressing current and emerging biodiversity
issues.

Objectives were also consistent with the individual Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for each of the beneficiary
countries which highlighted agricultural development as a major engine of economic growth and a prominent feature
of poverty reduction.

At completion, objectives were relevant to the World Bank Country Partnership or Country Assistance Strategies for
the participating countries that support enhancing agricultural productivity in order to reduce social, economic, and
environmental vulnerabilities. For example Benin's 2003 CAS stated that the challenge for rural development is,
among others, to accelerate productivity growth in the cotton and non-cotton sectors through technology generation
and application. Burkina Faso's 2005 CAS confirmed continued support of the World Bank to the cotton sector
productivity and competitiveness. Mali's 2003 CAS identified increasing the productivity of agricultural activities
through equipment and technology input as one of the key CAS priorities. Senegal's 2003 CAS highlighted agricultural
growth a key feature of the poverty reduction strategy and therefore called for promoting the cultivation of high
value-added crops, the application of irrigation, and agricultural diversification into horticultural products, fresh fruits,
and cotton. Objectives remain relevant to the participating countries’ current poverty reduction strategies that
emphasize enhancing agricultural productivity and encourage regional collaboration and sustainable management of
natural resources and the environment.

Objectives are also consistent with the World Bank’s Environment Strategy (2012), which highlighted the importance
of biodiversity protection and conservation together with the sustainable management of natural resources; and the
World Bank’s Regional Integration Assistance Strategy (2008) for Sub-Saharan Africa, which focused on regional
infrastructure, institutional cooperation for economic integration, and coordinated interventions to provide regional
public goods.

Revised Objectives
Substantial
The revised objectives were more focused and achievable compared to the original over-ambitious objectives. The
revised development objectives were relevant because they focused on institutional, scientific and legal capacity
building for implementing the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety; and supported the preparation of a draft Regional
Regulatory Biosafety Framework.

b. Relevance of Design:
Original Design
Modest
Design included an "overly ambitious" development objectives that specifically described the actions that the project
would support in order to regulate living modified organisms. The project supported activities were logical, but the
Results Framework did not have clear links between the project inputs and activities, outputs and expected outcomes.


Design suffered from several shortcomings. First, it significantly underestimated the time needed for institutional
development and did not understand the unevenness of country capacity. Second, it structured the implementation
support mechanisms with little heed to the institutional realities of WAEMU that was not well aligned with the project's
agricultural focus. Third, the project coordination unit under the West African Economic and Monetary Union lacked
the necessary capacity to implement the project which could have benefitted from the creation of an independent
implementation agency. Finally, design relied on adoption of a regional biosafety regulation before implementing other
project activities, and this proved problematic when adoption of the regulations stalled.

Revised Design
Substantial
The revised design PDO was "output-oriented" because it targeted achieving a draft regional biosafety regulation and
"thus not suitable for measuring outcomes (ICR, p. 17)." To achieve the stated objective design relied on the same
components, but with some revision as noted above. The revised design featured appropriate activities to achieve the
revised objectives.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   Original Objective : to support the West African Economic and Monetary Union for the establishment of an
operational institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety framework for the regulation of living modified
organisms: Negligible

Outputs

    By project completion 450 scientists and stakeholders were trained in the use of the new regional risk
     assessment and management handbook compared to a target of 400.
    The ratification by WAEMU Council of Ministers of a regional biosafety framework aligned with the Cartagena
     Protocol on Biosafety and acceptable for the countries in the region, was not achieved.
    No monitoring reports were published by regional observatory since it was not established.
    No applications for field trials were reviewed and implemented in accordance with regional guidelines and
     procedures because applications were neither received, nor processed or reviewed, and the required guidelines
     were absent.
    A mechanism for public participation was not developed and no comments had been received. No comments
     were submitted by public before decision-making because the regional biosafety framework was neither ratified
     nor implemented. No responses from national biosafety committee and regional coordination were received
     because the regional biosafety framework was neither ratified nor implemented.
    Neither regulators nor national cotton companies were trained in Intellectual Property Rights negotiations related
     to crops because the regional biosafety framework was neither ratified nor implemented.

Outcome

The project did not achieve its expected outcomes.

    The envisaged operational institutional, legal and regulatory regional biosafety framework was not established.
    The biosafety framework was neither adopted nor implemented at the time of restructuring or by project closure.
    No applications were processed for field trials of high priority crops (in conformity with the agricultural policy of
     WAEMU) since the biosafety framework was not established.

RevisedObjective: a) Strengthen the institutional, scientific and legal capacity of the WAEMU Commission and
Member States in relation to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety in the sub-region, and (b) support the preparation of
a draft Regional Regulatory Biosafety Framework.
a) Strengthen the institutional, scientific and legal capacity of the WAEMU Commission and Member States in relation
to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety in the sub-region: Modest

Outputs
  By project completion, 47 researchers out of 84 and stakeholders (56%, target was at least 25%) were trained in
    various aspects related to biosafety, applied the acquired knowledge according to a survey that was undertaken
    in 2012.
  8 national laboratories (target: 5) were fully equipped at the end of the project.
  A final manual on risk assessment and management methodologies was validated in September 2012 by the
    regional scientific committee for biosecurity, and posted on the Biosafety Clearing House central portal.
  84 researchers (target: 50) were trained in scientific methodologies on risk assessment,
  366 stakeholders (target: 300) were trained in biosafety and Intellectual Property Rights by the end of the project.
    The 84 researchers who had been trained in scientific methodologies on risk assessment, trained 366
    stakeholders in the WAEMU states (except for Mali and Guinea-Bissau) in biosafety.
  10 stakeholders (target: 20) including 5 national biosafety agencies, and 5 WAEMU representatives participated
    in a study tour to the USA and Canada.
Outcome:
  The project achieved some progress with regards to strengthening the institutional, scientific and legal capacity of
    the WAEMU Commission and Member States in relation to the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety.
  On the scientific side, the project provided capacity building activities and equipped 8 national laboratories to
    carry out risks assessments of LMOs and conduct post release monitoring. However, it was not clear to what
    extent these labs were functional at project completion. In addition, the regional laboratory in Burkina Faso was
    not functional because a required greenhouse facility was not built.
  On the legal side, the project provided training on Intellectual Property Rights, but the effectiveness of this
    training remains unclear.
  On the institutional side, the project supported several capacity-building activities for researchers on risk
    assessment and biosafety. Of the 84 researchers and stakeholders who were trained in various aspects related
    to biosafety, 47 (56%, target: 25%) applied the acquired knowledge according to a survey that was undertaken in
    2012.
  Overall, the project results were mixed and there is scant evidence on the achievement of the objective which
    was mainly gauged through one outcome indicator that is more of an output.

(b) support the preparation of a draft Regional Regulatory Biosafety Framework. Substantial.

Outputs
   A draft regional biosafety framework, including an institutional framework was shared with WAEMU and
     Economic Community Of West African States (ECOWAS) member states, and civil society organizations for
     comments (target achieved).
Outcome
The project supported drafting a regional biosafety framework, including an institutional framework. These documents
were shared with various stakeholders and consultations were held, and stakeholders’ comments and concerns were
documented. According to the ICR (p. 20) "the draft framework was validated by sector ministers (i.e., agriculture,
environment, research, and civil society organization) and technical experts, and is currently awaiting adoption by the
Board of Statutory Ministers." However, the crucial step of ratification, adoption and implementation of the regulations
is yet to be done. According to the ICR (p. 20) ratification is expected sometime in 2015.

Progress towards the GEO : "to protect regional biodiversity against the potential risks associated with the introduction
of Living Modified Organisms (LMOs) into the environment."

Outcome
There was negligible progress towards achievement of the GEO. Establishment of a regional biosafety framework did
not happen, and the regional reference laboratory in Burkina Faso was not operational. Hence, it was not possible to
measure the presence or absence of contamination through gene transfer to wild species, the concentration level, or
the appearance of new organisms or the disappearance of non-targeted organisms.

5. Efficiency:
 Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex-ante
The PAD (Annex 9) included an economic and financial analysis that covered the whole program not only the project.
The economic analysis was based on several assumptions about the counterfactual situation and the efficiency gains
of biosafety regulation and lower technology fees. Economic benefits to the WAEMU countries expected under the
project included: (i) efficiency gains from centralizing regulations and risk assessment and management
methodologies at a regional level; (ii) lower levels of technology fees from enhanced negotiations capacity; and (iii)
lower risks of regional biodiversity contamination from improved risk assessment and management of safeguards and
environment and health benefits through reduced pesticide use. The present value of quantified benefits was slightly
below that of the costs, however, the gains from lowered risk of biodiversity contamination were not taken into account
in the quantified benefits. The analysis did not include any ERR or FRR figures.
ex-poste
The benefits envisaged in the economic and financial analysis at appraisal were not realized because the project
failed to achieve its original objectives and only partially achieved the revised ones. The project's cost analysis
showed that actual costs of activities under component 1 exceeded the appraisal estimate by 26%; and that most
project funds were spent on adapting and disseminating regional methodologies to assess and manage risk, and
constructing the regional biosafety framework. The increased cost was due to including the cost of upgrading a
network of national biosafety laboratories in seven WAEMU member countries under component 1. The remaining
costs of the project covered activities under components 2 and 3 representing 14% and 13% of their appraisal
estimates, respectively. Overall, it is difficult to assess the project's efficiency "mainly because of the limited data
available to demonstrate that project resources were used efficiently" (ICR, p. 21). Also, no benefits could be
assessed, cost recovery mechanisms were nonexistent because at completion the regional biosafety framework has
neither been adopted nor implemented; and the laboratory construction was not finalized.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The project closed 23 months beyond the expected date at appraisal. Project implementation experienced lengthy
delays, especially in the period prior to the Mid-Term Review. Administrative challenges at the WAEMU hindered
timely compliance with effectiveness conditions. Project implementation also suffered from delays due to inefficient
management and poor staff performance combined with interpersonal staff tensions. Financial management and
procurement activities handled through the Coordination Unit under WAEMU was weak which contributed to
implementation delays.

Efficiency is rated negligible.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                  Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   A split evaluation of the project is required given the formal restructuring. with a weighting of 16% for the outcome
of the original objectives (as stated in the Financial Agreement) prior to the restructuring, and 84% for the outcome of
the revised objectives (as stated in the Restructuring Paper) after restructuring.

Original Project
Relevance of objectives was rated substantial while relevance of design was rated modest. Efficacy was negligible
due to the failure to achieve the two main outcomes of the project, (i) adoption of the operational institutional, legal
and regulatory regional biosafety framework, and (ii) the creation of a national laboratory with regional reference.
Efficiency was rated negligible due to the absence of any meaningful economic/financial analysis of project activities.

Original project outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory .

Revised Project
Relevance of objectives and relevance of design were both rated substantial. Efficacy of the first objective was rated
modest due to scant evidence on the achievement of the objective. Efficacy of the second objective was rated
substantial. Efficiency was rated negligible for the same reason mentioned above.

Revised project outcome was rated moderately unsatisfactory .

Overall outcome rating

At the time of restructuring the total amount disbursed was US$1.2 million GEF Grant (25% of total disbursed GEF
amount of US4.8 million) and US$0.3 million of IDA credit (7% of total IDA credit disbursed of US$4.3 million). This
represented a total average of 16% of the total disbursed amount of GEF and IDA amount of US$9.10 million; while
disbursement after restructuring represented 84% of the total amount disbursed.

The highly unsatisfactory rating on a scale of 1 to 6 is assigned a value of 1 while the moderately unsatisfactory rating
on the same scale is assigned a value of 3

Weighted rating: 0.16 X1 + 0.84X3 = 2.68 which is rounded upwards to 3 and corresponding to moderately
unsatisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The main concern is that WAEMU countries will not ratify, adopt and implement the biosafety regulation framework
supported by the project. While the ICR (p. 23) reported that the ratification of the biosafety regulation was expected in
2015, there is a concern that adoption and implementation will take an extended period of time. If the regional
laboratory in Burkina Faso was not functional at project completion, this would hinder any lab work needed for
biosafety. The ICR (p. 23) reported that laboratory greenhouse, which was to be completed under the project, would
be constructed through a post-completion operation financed through another the World Bank project (West Africa
Agricultural Productivity Project); however, this has yet to be confirmed.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    WAEMU countries expressed a need for strong biosafety regulatory and safeguard mechanisms in order to
ensure that transgenic crops, and Living Modified Organisms (LMOs) in particular, were used safely and
benefitted farmers, in line with the requirements of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety and other international
standards. The World Bank responded by preparing a project that addressed the needs of WAEMU countries.
   Project preparation took approximately two years (2005 to 2007). Design benefitted from consultations with
     stakeholders including research institutes, national and regional producer organizations, national biosafety
     committees, civil society organizations, consumer groups, and the private sector. An intellectual property
     rights needs assessment was conducted as well as assessments on the relevance of a regional approach,
     and a study on the economics of Bt-cotton were part of the preparation process.
   Design benefitted from the experience of other Bank funded projects of similar nature in Colombia and India.
     Notable lessons include building public awareness and public consultations, stakeholder involvement in
     guiding project strategy, the substantial time and effort required to establish smooth inter-ministerial
     coordination mechanisms, and the benefit of a needs’ assessment for training to guide the design of the
     capacity-building activities.
   Despite these efforts, project appraisal suffered from several weaknesses. First, it it significantly
     underestimated the time needed for the inter-regional consultation and agreement on developing a biosafety
     regulation by WAEMU member countries. Second, the implementing capacity across the participating
     countries was much lower than envisaged at appraisal to the extent that hiring regional experts to carry out
     analytical work proved challenging. Third, project design relied on an ambitious and risky sequential approach
     that hinged the majority of project activities on the adoption of the biosafety regulation; an approach that
     eventually undermined the project.
   Several risks were identified at appraisal; however, some risk mitigation measures proved optimistic. For
     example, the assumption that common interest in cotton would facilitate regional coordination. Furthermore,
     risk analysis failed to anticipate the length of time needed for the consultations and negotiations to adopt the
     biosafety regulation. Also, risk analysis overlooked collaboration challenges in view of the multiple
     implementing entities, and weak capacity in view of the specificity and innovation of the biosafety and LMOs
     area.
   M&E suffered from design weaknesses (see section 10 below).



   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project suffered from delays that started with effectiveness. The World Bank supervision team worked with
participating countries to address delays and take corrective action. An action plan was developed in 2010
overseen by the World Bank country office in Burkina Faso and it was closely monitored. This led to the first Level
1 restructuring of the project and the change of the development objective and reallocation of funds. Despite
project extension and Bank's efforts and technical support, the regional laboratory in Burkina Faso was not
functional due to the delay in constructing the greenhouse. According to the ICR (p. 24) the Bank team helped to
negotiate the greenhouse construction through a post completion operation. Supervision reporting was generous
and did not reflect implementation delays and challenges that faced implementation especially prior to
restructuring the project in 2011. Ratings on the progress towards achievement of objectives as moderately
satisfactory after restructuring and towards the end of the project is questionable given that neither the biosafety
regulation was adopted nor the regional laboratory was functional.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    As a sign of commitment, all countries participating in the project ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity
prior to the project. The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety was also signed by all participating countries except for
Chad and Cote d’Ivoire. Prior to project effectiveness, a steering and monitoring committee consisting of
representatives from all participating countries was formed and met annually throughout implementation.
However, implementation of yearly work plans were often delayed and the Governments' counterpart funding was
significantly lower than agreed at appraisal.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project was implemented under the responsibility of a multistakeholder Steering Committee. This
committee was chaired by the Minister of Environment from the country holding the presidency of WAEMU, and
was expected to include representatives of the Ministers in charge of Environment from the seven other member
countries, one representative from regional NGOs, three from regional producer organizations, one from WAEMU,
one from ECOWAS and the president of the Regional Scientific Committee. The overall coordination of the Project
would be ensured by a Coordination Unit (CU) at WAEMU’s Commission. This CU would act as the secretariat of
the Steering Committee. It was responsible for (i) annual programming of project activities and approval of the
work plan and budget, (ii) monitoring implementation and results, including in particular the analysis and approval
of activity reports and financial and operational audits, and (iii) recommending corrective measures that may be
necessary. Fiduciary responsibility for the GEF funds were under the administrative and financial department of
WAEMU. The implementing agency of the project (WAEMU) suffered from centralized and lengthy decision
making process which negatively impacted implementation of project activities. Also, there were weaknesses in
financial management and procurement especially under WAEMU and the recruitment of the M&E specialist was
delayed.
The biosafety activities were to be implemented by Burkina Faso’s national biosafety agency under the guidance
of the Ministry of Environment, and all fiduciary aspects of the IDA credit were to be handled by the project
coordination unit of the Agricultural Diversification and Market Development Project under the guidance of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Fisheries. Performance of the implementing agencies was
characterized by significant shortcomings in the beginning of the project, but improved after restructuring in 2011.
   WAEMU: the project suffered from implementation delays prior to the Mid-Term Review mainly due to weak
     performance by WAEMU. This weak performance was due to ineffective institutional arrangements
     particularly on the fiduciary side, inefficient project management due to a highly centralized decision making
     process, and periodically insufficient commitment. Project implementation performance improved following
     the project’s restructuring and the implementation of corrective actions to increase the unit’s efficiency. M&E
     performance was also negatively affected by ineffective institutional arrangements.
   Burkina Faso’s national biosafety agency and Agricultural Diversification and Market Development Project:
     According to the ICR (p. 25) Burkina Faso’s national biosafety agency and Agricultural Diversification and
     Market Development Project’s staff performance was solid throughout project implementation. However, the
     construction of the regional laboratory in Burkina Faso experienced various delays and the greenhouse was
     not constructed. The Agricultural Diversification and Market Development Project's staff submitted financial
     monitoring reports "regularly and timely to the Bank’s satisfaction, as were external audit reports" (ICR, p. 25).
   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   Original design
The development objective was to be assessed through one outcome indicator that measured the percentage of
applications for field trials. The global environmental objective also was to be assessed through one outcome indicator
that measured the percentage of risk assessments incorporating measurements of : (i) presence/absence of
contamination through gene transfer to wild species and concentration level, (ii) appearance of new or disappearance
of non-target organisms. The framework included 8 intermediate outcome indicators that aimed to gauge intermediate
outcomes/outputs.

Revised design
The revised design following restructuring introduced two new outcome indicators. However, both outcome indicators
were output-oriented. Restructuring also led to dropping six out of the original eight intermediate outcome indicators 2
to 8 and six new intermediate outcome indicators were introduced to assess the achievement of intermediate
outcomes/outputs.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   M&E implementation was the responsibility of the Coordination Unit (CU) stationed in WAEMU and a steering and
monitoring committee consisting of representatives from all participating countries which was created prior to project
effectiveness. M&E implementation was undermined by the project design because most activities relied on the
adoption of the biosafety regulation and the validation of the study on risk management. Hence, when these activities
faced delays and eventually were not realized as envisaged, most project activities were negatively impacted and
their pertaining indicators could not be assessed. Implementation arrangements included producing quarterly,
semiannual and annual progress reports. Under component B, a regional observatory was intended to perform the
essential functions of monitoring compliance with the Cartagena Protocol and evaluate the impact of agricultural
biotechnology on biodiversity and on socioeconomic issues, if/when the countries adopt trans-genic crops. However,
the regional observatory was never created because the regional biosafety regulatory framework was not
implemented. Although quarterly progress reports were regularly produced by the project coordination unit,
monitoring and evaluation activities were not carried out as envisaged at appraisal because no M&E specialist was
hired to work under the CU except late in October 2010. The ICR (p. 13) reported that M&E activities improved
following the hiring of the M&E specialist and after the Level 1 restructuring in 2011.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The project coordination unit produced quarterly progress reports. However, no further details were provided by the
ICR on how M&E information was used to manage the project or assess progress.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The Project was assigned an environmental category B under OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. The Pest
Management (OP 4.09) safeguard policy was triggered at appraisal.

Environmental safeguard compliance . An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared
in August 2006, and updated in August 2009. However, validating the ESMF was delayed to October, 2010. An
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the laboratory in Burkina Faso was completed in 2012 after lengthy
consultations. The project was supported regularly by a safeguard specialist and the construction of the laboratory in
Burkina Faso was supported by a safeguard consultant who oversaw compliance with the EMP.

Pest Management safeguard compliance . The possible introduction of Bt-cotton in Burkina Faso triggered this
safeguard policy because this could potentially lead to Bt resistance and cause secondary pest outbreaks. According
to the ICR (p. 14) "the project was not promoting or financing the introduction of any genetically modified crops or the
use of any specific pest management practices." Pest management was eventually addressed as part of the ESMF as
a pest focused management plan was deemed unnecessary (ICR, p. 14).

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial management and procuremen t. WAEMU’s project implementation unit was responsible
for the procurement and financial management of the program at the regional level. Fiduciary aspects of the IDA credit
associated with construction the regional biosafety laboratory were under the responsibility of the project coordination
unit of the Agricultural Diversification and Market Development Project.
  o WAEMU. Financial management and procurement, especially prior to the 2011 Level 1 restructuring, was weak
      and procurement suffered from delays due to the centralized decision making process and its lengthy
      authorization process. Consequently, this led to implementation delays. While financial management reports
      were submitted regularly and on time to the World Bank, often these reports were returned due to poor quality
      and had to be resubmitted. According to the ICR (p. 14) "external audit reports were also often delayed and
      included reservations on expense justifications. Prior to project restructuring, procurement was often rated
      moderately unsatisfactory or unsatisfactory." Financial management and procurement gradually improved after
      restructuring. The project subsequently received more fiduciary support and the procurement process became
      more efficient.
  o The project coordination unit of the Agricultural Diversification and Market Development Project . The project
      received adequate fiduciary support in terms of capacity and performance. Communication with the Bank was
      timely and financial management reports and external audits were submitted regularly with acceptable quality to
      the Bank (ICR, p. 15).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Unsatisfactory     There were major shortcomings at
                              Unsatisfactory                                   Quality at Entry which is rated
                                                                               unsatisfactory. Supervision is rated
                                                                               moderately satisfactory.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Unsatisfactory     Governments' performance is rated
                              Unsatisfactory                                   moderately unsatisfactory. There were
                                                                               major shortcomings in implementing
                                                                               agencies' performance whose
                                                                               performance is rated unsatisfactory.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR included eleven lessons, the following two are emphasized with some adaptation of language and
rearrangement:
    Project activities should not be dependent on the adoption of a law (especially one related to a controversial
     theme such as biosafety ) subject to a political process not under the control of project activities . Most of the
     project’s outcomes were dependent on the adoption and implementation of the regional biosafety framework;
     since the framework was neither adopted nor implemented at the time of restructuring or project closure, these
     outcomes were not achieved.

    It is important to carefully review whether a regional approach should be used or whether another alternative
     would be more particable . Sufficient client demand for a regional project is fundamental to ensure effective and
     efficient project implementation. Also, before embarking on a comprehensive regional framework, carefully
     consider the policy context, regulatory regime and institutional set-up for each country and try to use their
     respective national biosafety regulation to inform the development of the regional framework.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides thorough and concise coverage of project activities. It reported candidly on design weaknesses and
implementation shortcomings. The ICR also provided a logical discussion of project outcomes to the extent possible
given the weaknesses in M&E. However, there was no economic analysis due to the lack of data; and limited
information was provided on M&E utilization. The ICR did not report on the candor of the ISRs and the DO/IP/GEO
ratings.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
