Document of
The World Bank    
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2557-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
May 22, 1979
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforkmnce of
tbeir offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World Dbk autboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978          May 10, 1979
Currency Unit  -       Cruzeiro (Cr$)              Cr$
US$1           -       Cr$18.3                     24.65
Cr$1           -       US$0.055                   0.041
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH          -    Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
CEBRAE       -    Centro Brasileiro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa
(Brazilian Center for Assistance to the Small and
Medium-Sized Enterprise)
CNDU         -    Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Council)
CNPU         -    Commissao Nacional de Politica Urbana e Regioes
Metropolitanas (National Commission on Urban Policy
and Metropolitan Regions)
COBAL        -    Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos (Brazilian
Foodstuffs Company)
EBTU         -    Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos
(Brazilian Urban Transport Company)
FNDU         -    Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(National Urban Development Fund)
SDU          -    Subsecretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano
(Undersecretariat of Urban Development)
SINE         -    Sistema Nacional de Emprego (National Employment
System)
SUDEPE       -    Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Pesca
(Agency for Fisheries Development)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 - Cr$19.95)
corresponds to the cruzeiro selling rate as of November 15, 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$70.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace
at 7.9% per annum.
Beneficiaries:       The medium-sized cities of Campina Grande, Florianopolis,
Juiz de Fora, Montes Claros, Natal, Pelotas, Petrolina/
Juazeiro and Vitoria.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower would make the proceeds of the loan available
to state and municipal governments as grants. State and
municipal governments would lend part of these proceeds
to agencies responsible for food distribution systems and
industrial parks and to cooperatives at 2% to 6% p.a. on
the indexed principal over periods compatible with the
economic life of subproject components. State and munici-
pal governments would make the rest of the loan proceeds
available as grants to agencies responsible for other sub-
project components such as water supply, sanitation, sites
and services, etc. These agencies would recover the cost
of these components from final beneficiaries through
tariffs or taxes. In the case of sites and services com-
ponents, final beneficiaries would receive loans at 1%
p.a. on the indexed principal over 25 years.
Proiect
Description:       The proposed project would assist in improving the living
conditions and increasing the incomes of the populations,
particularly the urban poor, of eight rapidly growing
medium-sized cities. Subprojects in each city would
include several or all of the following components:
central food warehouses to support retail grocers in poor
areas; stalls in open-air markets; industrial parks for
small and informal sector enterprises; technical assistance
to small and informal sector enterprises; technical
assistance to and equipment for cooperatives; manpower
training; water supply and sewerage systems; sanitation
works, in particular septic tanks; drainage for flood and
erosion control; low-cost urban transport works; trash
collection services; sites and services; and community
facilities (nurseries, primary schools, health posts,.
etc.). In addition, subprojects would include components
to improve municipal administration and finances (e.g.
cadastral surveys, consultancy services and training).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
teir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Works and services amounting to about 70% of the total
project cost would benefit families with incomes below the
relative poverty level. The project has been designed to
strengthen the Undersecretariat of Urban Development of
the Ministry of Interior to enable it to provide the
support required by the National Urban Development Council
to coordinate urban development. As part of this
institution-building exercise, the General Secretariat of
the Ministry of Interior would substantially expand the
permanent staff of the Undersecretariat, enter into
agreements formalizing its relations with other federal
sectoral agencies working in the urban sector, and introduce
guidelines for appraising integrated urban development
projects in medium-sized cities. The project involves a
higher than usual degree of risk because the General
Secretariat and the Undersecretariat of Urban Development
of the Ministry of Interior have yet to gain experience in
coordinating the preparation and execution of integrated
urban development projects. However, the undertakings
that the Government would agree to give the Bank along
with the participation of experienced sectoral agencies,
should ensure a tight control over the execution of the
project which makes the risk acceptable.
Estimated Cost:
US$ millions
Local  Foreign  Total   % of Total
I.   Cities Appraised by Bank Staff
A. Promotion of Economic Activities
Food Distribution Systems                 2.6     0.7      3.3        5.9
Industrial Parks                          2.6     0.8      3.4        6.0
Technical Assistance to Small
and Informal Sector Enterprises        0.6      0.1      0.7        1.2
Technical Assistance to and
Equipment for Cooperatives              4.5     1.5      6.0       10.7
Manpower Training                         0.5     0.1      0.6        1.0
B. Urban Infrastructure
Water Supply and Sewerage                 6.8     3.2    10.0        17.8
Sanitation                               0.9      0.2      1.1        2.0
Drainage                                  5.6     1.9      7.5       13.3
Urban Transport                           4.6     2.5      7.1       12.6
Trash Collection                          1.8     1.2      3.0        5.4
Sites and Services                        2.3     0.6      2.9        5.1
Community Facilities and Others           4.0     0.8      4.8        8.5
C. Municipal Administration
Project Management Units                  4.0       0      4.0        7.1
Administrative Improvements               0.7     0.1      0.8        1.4
Cadastral Surveys and Studies             1.0     0.1      1.1        2.0
Subtotal                           42.5    13.8    56.3       100.0



- iii -
II.   Cities to be Appraised by Borrower                             99.9
Physical Contingencies                                         13.7
Price Contingencies                                            30.1
Total                                              200.0
Financing Plan:                                                 (US$ millions)
Proposed IBRD Loan                             70.0
Federal Government through
Fundo Nacional de
Desenvolvimento Urbano                      70.0
States, Municipalities and
Banco Nacional da Habitacao                 60.0
200.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                         Bank FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual                 6.1       24.6   22.3   17.0
Cumulative             6.1       30.7   53.0   70.0
Rate of Return:      The combined economic rate of return for components
accounting for 66% of the cost of the three subprojects
appraised by Bank staff is estimated at 29%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 2361-BR, dated May 21, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$70 million to
help finance a medium-sized cities project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        A new Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979 for a six-year term. In its
inaugural statements, the new Administration has emphasized the need to
reduce inflation and limit the growth of aggregate demand in accordance with
Brazil's balance-of-payments constraint.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite significant trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
relative income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that
most Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth of
public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One byproduct of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports
rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports
also swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Sergipe Rural Development Project (P-2554-BR, dated
May 16, 1979).



-2 -
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or 7%
of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the sud-
denly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic problems
of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the oil crisis has been enhanced by its
strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of its manu-
factured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets, combined
with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and the opportun-
ities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import substitution.
Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high national growth
expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the authorities were initially
reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted instead toward
increasing control over imports, which were held approximately constant in
nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort, accomplished
through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a positive merchand-
ise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current account deficit was
reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged 7.6% per year between
1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the
authorities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained above 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional
international reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, despite a 2%
decline in agricultural output. The agricultural failure was caused by a
serious drought in southern Brazil which resulted in the loss of an estimated
30% of the soybean crop, 17% of corn output, 5% of rice, and 18% of cotton.
The resultant reduction of exports and increased need for imports cost the
economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign exchange, about two-thirds of
which was attributable to reduced soybean exports. An important bright spot
in the picture was a 36% nominal increase in the export of manufactured
goods. Total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%, compared to a 13.4%
increase in imports.
9.        Interest payments abroad increased sharply as a combined result
of substantial borrowings and a steep rise in the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR),
to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied. The current account
deficit thus rose to 3.0% of GDP in 1978. Total debt service on medium- and
long-term debt (public and private), net of interest earned on Brazil's re-
serves, rose to 59% of exports in 1978, from 49% in the previous year. Part of
this increase, however, was associated with a further US$3.8 billion increase
in international reserves. By the end of the year reserves had grown to
US$11.7 billion, or about 8 months of projected 1979 import equivalence
(including non-factor services). Inflation remained at about 40% in 1978,
for the third consecutive year, despite continued curbs on credit and public
sector investment. The drought-related contraction of agricultural output



- 3 -
and the rapid build-up of international reserves contributed to the price
pressures. These pressures intensified in early 1979, while labor disputes
which had occurred sporadically in 1978 affected much of the public sector of
Sao Paulo as well as teachers in the major cities. The new Government
responded to the rise in inflation by adopting a new package of measures during
April 1979. The major components of the package are a temporary price-freeze
on supermarket sales, stricter enforcement of existing price control regula-
tions, new restraints on private sector foreign borrowing, and severe limits
on domestic credit expansion.
Poverty Programs
10.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been
expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban
population is now covered by the social security's health care system, and a
cash transfer program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under
this latter system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age
are eligible to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an
amount which is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural
Northeast.  The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program.
Almost 2 million loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964
for housing. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to
benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a
program to finance home improvement and building materials. High priority
has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people
have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the
proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services from 60 to 75%.
Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of adult
illiteracy and malnutrition.
Future Prospects
11.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have been acce-
lerated to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate
nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for automotive
use, while efforts have been made to induce energy conservation. The results,
however, have thus far been limited, and with oil now constituting 30% of
Brazil's merchandise imports, as compared to 11% in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
12.       The Government that took office on March 15 has acknowledged
that the balance-of-payments constraint and the need to reduce the rate of
inflation mean that Brazil must undergo a period of carefully moderated
economic growth. As noted above, a number of measures toward this end have
already been announced, including some increases in taxes and further reduc-
tions of public expenditures, credit, and subsidies. To assure the efficient



execution of these and future fiscal and monetary policy decisions, several
important institutional reforms have been set in motion. These include:
consolidation and improvement of information flows and centralized control
over the public sector budget, integrating the operations of the far-flung
semi-autonomous agencies and public enterprises; incorporation also into the
budget of many of the subsidized credit programs currently handled outside
the budget through the Central Bank; and elimination from the Central Bank of
its gradually accumulated development banking functions. Important also in
this context, as well as to the efficiency of resource allocation, is the
decision to phase out over four years both the excess rebate of taxes to
exports and the prior deposit requirement on imports, and compensating these
actions through gradual real devaluation of the cruzeiro. Indications are
that Brazilian industry would be internationally competitive, even without
export subsidies, over a wide range of manufactures if an appropriate real
exchange rate is maintained.
13.       Growth is expected to average at most 5-6% per year in 1979 and
1980, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. But barring further
unforeseen difficulties that would constrain the availability of external
resources, it might be possible in subsequent years to reaccelerate the
economy gradually to a growth rate of 7-8% by 1985. Such growth rates would
be compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
a falling debt service ratio.
14.       This prognosis depends heavily on the continued vigorous growth of
manufactured exports, though at a rate more modest than that of the past 15
years. The export of manufactures grew at a real average annual rate of 28%
in the decade 1964-74, this pace dropping off only during the world-wide
recession of 1975-76. The momentum resumed in 1977 and 1978 with real growth
rates of 29 and 20%, respectively. By comparison, the growth rates assumed
in the projections -- 18% per annum during 1978-80 and 12% per aiuina  in
1980-85 -- do not appear unreasonable, particularly in view of the broad
diversification of Brazil's manufactured exports in terms of both products
and markets.
15.       Also assumed is the continuation of Brazil's vigorous import-
substitution effort. The present substitution program was initiated prior
to the oil-related balance-of-payments difficulties in recognition that the
growth and increasing sophistication of the domestic economy had made possible
the efficient production of many capital and intermediate goods requiring
large-scale operations and advanced technology. Major projects were conse-
quently undertaken for the production, inter alia, of fertilizers, steel,
aluminum, other basic metals, and petroleum. The installation of hydroelec-
tric capacity could also be properly viewed in this context. Although public
investments will be restrained in coming years as part of the new Government's
announced stabilization program, these sectors will continue to receive
priority.
External Assistance and Creditworth'ieriss
16.       Despite the successful effort to restrict imports after the rise
in oil prices, the maintenance of h.-ii -cowth rates after 1973 has required a
substantial increase in Brazil's external indebtedness. By the end fr 1978,



- 5 -
the total of public and private external debt outstanding had risen to
US$41.0 billion, as compared to US$12.6 billion at the end of 1973. As noted
earlier a significant fraction of this borrowing was added to Brazil's inter-
national reserves, which increased from US$6.4 billion to US$11.7 billion over
the same period. This "excess" borrowing occurred largely in response to the
steadily improving loan terms available to Brazil in 1977 and 1978, which
provided the economy relatively low (net) cost insurance against future exter-
nal shocks and offered many private borrowers an alternative to expensive
domestic credit.
17.       A gross capital inflow of US$14.9 billion was required in 1978 to
cover the current account deficit (US$5.7 billion), amortization payments
(US$5.4 billion) and the reserve accumulation (US$3.8 billion). After
accounting for direct investments and short-term outflows, total medium- and
long-term credits (disbursements) amounted to US$14.3 billion. Financial
credits accounted for US$11.4 billion of the total.
18.       Brazil is expected to show a growing resource surplus beginning
around 1980, reaching US$2.0 billion by 1985. Rapidly increasing net factor
service payments abroad, emanating from both interest payments on its large
debt and royalties for imported technology, could reach US$7.5 billion by
1985, however, resulting in a continuing current account deficit through the
first half of the 1980s in the range of US$5.0-5.5 billion. But in proportion
to GDP, the current account deficit would fall to less than one percent by
1985.
19.       Gross borrowing requirements are expected to fall sharply to about
US$6.9 billion in 1979 as a combined result of the reduced growth rate and
the Government's announced intention to draw down reserves by about US$3
billion. Thereafter, gross borrowings would rise steadily from US$11.5
billion in 1980 to US$16.1 billion in 1985. Net borrowing would grow from
US$3.8 billion to US$5.8 billion over the same years. The need for external
financing is thus expected to grow somewhat more slowly than in recent years
and significantly less rapidly than the rate of growth of exports. As a conse-
quence the net debt service ratio (including both public and private debt)
would peak at about 60% in 1980, falling steadily thereafter to 40% by 1985.
20.       In summary, Brazil is a dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient
economy in which policy makers have demonstrated repeatedly their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances when needed. After a period of very rapid
growth in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of pet-
roleum imports has forced the nation to moderate its growth expectations and
to adapt its economic structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjust-
ment process was eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of inter-
national creditworthiness, aggressive expansion of its manufactured exports,
and the ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by its
large domestic market. Nevertheless, Brazil's continued heavy dependence on
petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accunu-
lation of external debt in recent years indicate that the process is not yet
complete. The new Government recognizes the need to restrain the growth of
aggregate demand for the next several years while continuing, with greater
selectivity than in the past, to make the investments necessary both to sustain



- 6 -
the progress of export expansion and import substitution and to alleviate
poverty. The task of economic management will not be easy, but the outlook
is favorable. The current analysis shows no diminution of Brazil's capacity
to service its existing and future debts. Moreover, the fact that imports
are small relative to GDP and that because of Brazil's size and diversity
most imports are residual in nature -- i.e., fill the gap between demand and
existing domestic production capacity -- means that relatively small changes
in the overall economic growth rate will generally suffice to adjust to
unforeseen shocks to the balance of payments. Brazil thus remains fully
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1979 the Bank had approved 85 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$4,178.2 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed.
During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching
US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252 million in FY78.
Disbursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1979 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Over the FY75-78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77
seven loans totalling US$425 million and in FY78, nine loans totalling US$705
million. So far in FY79, three loans totalling US$291 million have been
approved: a US$100 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project in
the northeast, a US$93 million loan for a sites and services and low-cost
housing project, and a US$98 million loan for an aluminum project. The
documents for a US$109 million loan for the COPEL Second Power Distribution
Project and for a US$26 million loan for the Sergipe Rural Development
Project have been recently distributed to the Executive Directors. Work
is relatively advanced on the preparation of an industrial pollution control
project in Sao Paulo, a second irrigation project in the lower Sao Francisco
river basin, a power distribution project in the state of Rio Grande do Sul,
an integrated rural development project in the northeastern state of Pernambuco,
a rural primary education project in the northeast, and a second feeder roads
project. We expect to propose loans for these projects in the near future.
23.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to nearly US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise slightly while its share in debt service
falls to about 1.7%.



-7 -
24.       As of March 31, 1979, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$395.22
million, of which US$270.25 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance of US$124.97 million, US$93.79 million represents loans and
US$31.18 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31, 1979
is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and
to improve their living conditions. The loans for nutrition research and
development, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural exten-
sion and polder construction in the Lower Sao Francisco as well as for integ-
rated rural development in the states of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais,
Ceara, Paraiba and Bahia were all designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas. Additional projects designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas are in preparation, including a second irrigation project in the
lower Sao Francisco river basin, and a rural education project and several
integrated rural development projects in the Northeast. The loans for water
supply and sewerage in the state of Minas Gerais, Greater Sao Paulo and the
Northeast, for urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and services
and low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions of the
urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation: a second urban transport
project, an integrated urban development project, an industrial pollution
control project in Greater Sao Paulo and a water supply and sewerage project
in three southern states. The proposed medium-sized cities development proj-
ect would improve the living conditions and increase the incomes of the popula-
tions, particularly the urban poor, of eight rapidly growing medium-sized cities.
26.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational poli-
cies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help
maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically through
rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building objec-
tive has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the transportation
sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of investments, the
strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of the railways'
financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply and sewerage,
industrial finance, agricultural research and extension, and urban development
also have important institution-building objectives. The proposed project
would strengthen the institutions responsible for urban development both at
the federal and the local levels by assisting them to address, in an integrated
manner, the basic needs of the urban poor.
27.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's



- 8 -
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since it is
based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the center and south of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil in view of the country's ample supply of high-grade iron
ore and the scale of its internal markets. Likewise, the recently approved
VALESUL Aluminum Project would substitute aluminum imports with domestic pro-
duction relying on Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources for power and on
its ample reserves of bauxite for raw material.
28.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued substantial lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, nine co-financing operations totalling more than
US$365 million have been concluded with private financial institutions and
several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
29.       Over the last three decades, Brazil has experienced rapid urbani-
zation. The urban population will nearly quadruple from 1950 to 1980. During
the 1960's, the urban population grew at a yearly rate of 5%. This rate of
growth diminished only slightly during the seventies. Growth has been most
rapid in the center west region, mainly as a result of the building of
Brasilia and the expansion of Belo Horizonte, and least rapid in the northeast
because of out-migration. The recent pattern of urban growth has slightly
offset the dominance of the large metropolitan areas of the southeast,
Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. However, the large imbalance between the
southeast and the other regions persists.
30.       The urban population has traditionally been concentrated in nine
large metropolitan areas: Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo in the southeast;
Porto Alegre and Curitiba in the south; Belo Horizonte in the center west;
Fortaleza, Salvador, and Recife in the northeast; and Belem in the north. A



- 9 -
striking characteristic of the recent urbanization, however, has been the
growth of Brazil's medium-sized cities. During the sixties, growth rates of
cities with populations of 100,000 to 200,000 exceeded by a large margin the
growth rates of the metropolitan areas, indicating a spontaneous decentral-
ization trend in Brazil's urban structure. By 1970, about 15% of the urban
population, some 8 million people, lived in Brazil's 200 medium-sized cities
with populations ranging from 50,000 to 500,000. Many of these cities will
have populations of at least one million by the end of the century.
31.       The rapid growth of the urban population has created mounting
demands for shelter and urban services, both in large metropolitan areas and
in medium-sized cities. This demand remains substantially unsatisfied despite
the efforts of the Government. One indicator of the size of the problem is
that each year some half a million new urban families must find a place to
live. In the south, in a medium-sized city like Florianopolis, 16% of the
population live in substandard dwellings, 32% have no access to potable water
and 82% lack sewerage facilities. The situation is worse in the northeast
where, in a city like Natal (pop. 400,000), 37% of the population have no
access to potable water and 88% have no sewerage facilities.
Urban Poverty
32.       Brazilian agencies in the urban sector define the urban poverty
group as families with monthly incomes of up to three times the regional
minimum wage. This definition is close to the Bank's definition of relative
poverty level of one third of per capita personal income, adjusted for differ-
ences in the cost of living between urban and rural areas, or about US$465
equivalent per capita in 1977. Since all income statistics in Brazil are kept
in terms of multiples of the regional minimum wage, for operational purposes
the relative poverty line has been set at three times the regional minimum
wage. According to this definition, at the time of the last comprehensive
national census held in 1970, the percentage of families living in urban
poverty ranged from 41% in Greater Sao Paulo, the largest metropolis of the
southeast, to 77% in Recife, the largest city of the northeast. The same
pattern is also discernible elsewhere. In Florianopolis, for instance, 38% of
the families, and in Natal 70% of the families, live in poverty with incomes
below three times the regional minimum wage.
Urban Policy and Institutions
33.       The formulation of an explicit urban policy began with the Second
National Development Plan (1975-79). The plan document states that the rapid
growth of metropolitan regions, in particular Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo,
has introduced serious distortions in the urban structure of the country, and
argues that these distortions have exacerbated poverty, increased underemploy-
ment, and adversely affected the quality of life of the population. In
addition, the rapid growth of metropolitan regions has accentuated disparities
between and within regions. In response to these concerns, the Plan proposes
active government support for the development of medium-sized cities because
an urban structure composed of both large and medium-sized cities would
provide a better basis for economic and social development than an urban



- 10 -
structure composed only of large metropolitan regions. In the long run, the
planners expect that Government interventions would divert migratory flows
away from metropolitan areas towards medium-sized cities. In the short term,
Government intervention would enhance job opportunities and improve living
conditions in medium-sized cities.
34.       Over the past quarter of a century, the Government has created
several institutions to plan, coordinate, and finance urban development. In
1964, it established the National Housing Bank (Banco Nacional da Habitacao -
BNH). BNH has become a large and solid institution devoted primarily to the
financing of housing and urban infrastructure, including water supply and
sewerage; BNH's assets were US$11.6 billion equivalent in 1977. Later, in 1974,
the Government established the National Commission on Urban Policy and Metro-
politan Regions (Commissao Nacional das Regioes Metropolitanas e da Politica
Urbana - CNPU) and made it responsible for developing a national urban policy
and for coordinating the efforts of the various agencies working in the urban
sector. Subsequently, in 1976, it established the Brazilian Urban Transport
Company (Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos - EBTU) to plan, promote,
and finance transport in urban areas. The Government that took office on
March 15, 1979 created the National Urban Development Council (Conselho Nacional
de Desenvolvimento Urbano - CNDU). CNDU has assumed the responsibilities
assigned to CNPU previously (paras. 36 and 37).
35.       For the period 1976-1979, total resources allocated by the Government
for urban development are US$5 billion. Of this amount, US$0.8 billion are
allocated to the National Urban Development Fund (Fundo Nacional de Apoio ao
Desenvolvimento Urbano-FNDU) which was set up in 1975, under the overall
responsibility of CNPU, to finance urban development projects. Approximately
75% of FNDU's resources are channelled into a sub-account earmarked for urban
transport. This sub-account is now under the joint responsibility of CNDU
and EBTU. BNH is responsible for administering most of the balance of urban
development resources.
The National Urban Development Council (CNDU)
36.       CNDU is an interministerial council presided over by the Minister of
Interior. The presidents of BNH and EBTU are members of the council together
with the deputy ministers of planning, finance, transport, industry and
commerce, and interior. The main responsibilities of CNDU are to:
(a) formulate the national urban development policy;
(b) propose investment programs for the urban sector including
allocation of federal urban development resources; and
(c) administer FNDU.
Thus, CNDU will be the highest policy and decision making body in the urban
area. It will oversee BNH's and EBTU's programs and control the allocation
of federal budgetary resources earmarked for urban development.



- 11 -
37.       The Undersecretariat of Urban Development (Subsecretaria de
Desenvolvimento Urbano - SDU) created on May 11, 1979, within the General
Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior, will carry out CNDU's day to day
work. The Undersecretary of Urban Development will be, at the same time,
the Executive Secretary of CNDU. The technical staff of CNPU's executive
secretariat have been moved to SDU to provide continuity in the development
of urban policies and programs. Under the proposed project, SDU's staff and
procedures would be considerably strengthened (paras. 48 and 49).
38.       CNPU had begun to make its mark on urban development policies and
programs and had had some success in adjusting sectoral investment programs
to the Government's urban development strategy. However, much remained to be
done particularly in the areas of coordination of the policies and investment
programs of the agencies working in the sector, project appraisal and super-
vision, and orientation of federally funded programs to meet the needs of the
urban poor directly. CNDU will be in a better position to coordinate the
efforts of sectoral agencies working in the urban sector. It will be presided
over by the cabinet member responsible for urban development and made up of the
presidents of the key sectoral agencies and the highest ranking executives of
the ministries working in urban areas. In view of the priority that the new
authorities are assigning to the sector, it is expected that CNDU will enjoy
greater technical support than its predecessor.
The Medium-Sized Cities Program
39.       In accordance with the urban development policies outlined in the
Second National Development Plan (para. 33), the medium-sized cities program
provides financing and technical assistance for projects in the following
areas: (a) urban infrastructure and services (water supply, sanitation,
shelter, transport, community facilities, etc.); (b) employment creation and
training (industrial parks, technical assistance to small and informal sector
enterprises and cooperatives, vocational training, etc.); (c) municipal
finances and administration (cadastral surveys, information systems, personnel
training, etc.). Eight cities have been selected to participate in the
proposed project under the first phase of the program under the responsibility
of CNDU.  The cities selected to participate (a) have a potential for growth
(b) exercise a significant influence on their regions (as service centers for
agricultural areas, administrative centers for states, agricultural frontier
towns, etc.); (c) have a history of fast population and economic growth;
(d) have the basic administrative capability to prepare and execute projects;
and (e) have expressed commitment to the program.
40.       Three aspects of the program deserve special mention.  First,
projects financed under the program should be consistent with the urban devel-
opment needs of each city and be part of a group of mutually complementary
works. Second, projects should address urban poverty directly, for instance
through the provision of infrastructure services to areas of the city where
the urban poor live. Third, the federal government transfers funds as grants
under the program to the municipalities (para. 59). Thus, the municipalities
can carry out projects of a larger scope and greater diversity than they
otherwise could by using their own fiscal resources or borrowed money.



41.       Under the institutional arrangements approved recently (paras.
36 and 37), CNDU will be responsible for developing policy guidelines for,
and allocating resources to the medium-sized cities program. The General
Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior will coordinate the execution of
projects under the program, including the one to be partly financed by the
proposed Bank loan. Also, it will be responsible for working out the arrange-
ments needed to ensure the effective participation of federal sectoral agencies
in the program. SDU will carry out the day to day work. It will assist
medium-sized cities in the preparation of projects, appraise the projects
proposed for financing, and supervise their execution.  SDU will perform
these tasks with the assistance of sectoral agencies.
42.       The medium-sized cities program is funded by the Government out of
the National Urban Development Fund (FNDU). Operation of the program began
in 1976, and by the end of 1978, CNPU (CNDU's predecessor) had committed
US$26.5 million equivalent for works in the participating cities. In addition,
the Government has encouraged public financial institutions, including state
development banks, to give priority in their lending operations to projects
in participating cities. It is anticipated that CNDU will commit US$366
million or about 38% of forecast FNDU resources to the program over the
project period (1979-1982). This figure includes the proposed Bank loan.
43.       The medium-sized cities program is still too new to permit a full
evaluation of its performance. Initial operations have encountered some
difficulties. The impact of the program on the development of participating
cities has fallen short of stated goals, mainly because CNPU (a) spread its
financial and administrative resources too thin in trying to assist too many
of the 200 medium-sized cities in the country; (b) experienced difficulties in
coordinating the actions of other federal agencies working in different sectors
in urban areas; and (c) did not direct its assistance to the urban poor. CNDU
is well aware of these deficiencies and has instructed its technical arm, SDU,
to take steps to correct them. The first phase of the program under CNDU has
now been focused on 8 medium-sized cities. SDU would strengthen its staff and
organization under the project (para. 49). Formal lines of communication have
been established with sectoral agencies (para. 49). During project preparation
CNPU's technical staff were assisted in developing subproject appraisal guide-
lines which emphasize meeting the basic needs of the urban poor (para. 47).
By December 31, 1980 the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior
would review SDU's experience with these guidelines and propose to the Bank a
revised set of appraisal guidelines for application to projects in medium-sized
cities not included under the proposed project (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
44.       In 1977, the Government, through the Ministry of Planning and
CNPU, started working with the Bank in the preparation of a project suitable
for Bank financing. Procedures were developed for the selection of cities and
appraisal and supervision of subprojects, and arrangements were made for the
participation of various federal sectoral agencies and local institutions.



- 13 -
The proposed project was appraised by a Bank mission in November 1978; a
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of a Medium-Sized Cities Project"
(No. 2361-BR) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations with the Borrower were held in Washington, D.C. from April 23 to
April 27, 1979. The Federal Government was represented by Mr. Roberto Cavalcanti,
and SDU by Mr. Ricardo Militao de Moraes. A supplementary project data sheet,
including a timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The objectives of the proposed project are twofold.  First, it
would assist in improving the living conditions and increasing the incomes
of the populations, particularly the urban poor, of eight rapidly growing
medium-sized cities. Second, over a longer term, it would help to strengthen
SDU, the technical arm of CNDU, and other institutions responsible for urban
development both at the federal and local levels. The proposed project would
be the first attempt in Brazil to deal with problems created by rapid urban-
ization in an integrated manner, placing special emphasis on satisfying the
basic needs of the urban poor. CNDU has selected for participation in the
project the eight cities that have shown greater commitment to the goals of
the program and capacity to identify and prepare subprojects.
46.       To improve living conditions and increase incomes of the population,
the subprojects to be financed by the proposed Bank loan would: (a) provide
technical assistance and infrastructure needed to increase the productivity of
the working population and create new sources of employment; (b) improve urban
infrastructure, primarily in poor areas; and (c) include measures to improve
municipal administration and finances. To increase productivity and create
employment, subprojects would include the following components: central food
warehouses to support retail grocers in poor areas; stalls for open-air
markets; industrial parks for small and informal sector enterprises; technical
assistance to small and informal sector enterprises; technical assistance to
and equipment for cooperatives (fishing, dairy, laundry, artisan, etc.); and
manpower training. To improve urban infrastructure, they would include:
water supply and sewerage systems; sanitation works, in particular septic
tanks; drainage programs for flood and erosion control; low-cost works to
improve public transport; trash collection services; sites and services; and
community facilities (nurseries, primary schools, industrial canteens, etc.).
To improve municipal administration and finance, subprojects would include
cadastral surveys, information systems, organizational diagnoses, equipment,
and training. Subprojects in any single city would include several or all of
the works mentioned above in accordance with the characteristics of the city
and its urban development needs.
47.       Consistent with the institution-building objectives of the project,
stress is placed on developing as quickly as possible the capability of SDU
to appraise projects. Bank staff have fully appraised the subprojects in
Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora and Natal with the active participation of CNPU's
technical staff and the federal sectoral agencies participating in the project
(para. 56). SDU's staff (which was formerly with CNPU) have appraised the
subproject in Campina Grande and are expected to complete the corresponding
appraisal report shortly. Bank staff have reviewed SDU's work and found it



- 14 -
generally satisfactory. Bank approval of SDU's appraisal report would be a
condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 8.01(e) of the draft
Loan Agreement).  SDU would appraise the subprojects in the remaining four
participating cities in accordance with appraisal guidelines satisfactory to
the Bank, no later than June 30, 1980 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement
and draft supplemental letter). Disbursements for subprojects in any of these
four cities would be conditional upon the completion by SDU of an appraisal
report satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
48.       The arrangements for preparation, appraisal, execution and super-
vision of subprojects have an institution-building emphasis. The responsibil-
ity for proposing and justifying works for the cities would lie with the
respective municipal and state authorities. The cities would propose to SDU
subprojects including components addressed to meet their most urgent needs.
SDU would review the components proposed within each subproject to ensure that
they are consistent with local and federal development strategies. Upon approval
of the cities' proposals by SDU, the concerned local agencies would carry out,
with the assistance of consultants as needed, detailed feasibility studies for
the components proposed for financing under the program. Subsequently, federal
sectoral agencies would appraise the components related to their own areas of
expertise. SDU would then prepare an overall appraisal report.
49.       SDU would play a coordinating role under the project.  To ensure that
it plays this role effectively, the General Secretariat of the Ministry of
Interior has entered into agreements with the six federal sectoral agencies
participating in the project. The Government would cause the agencies to
perform in accordance with the provision of these agreements (Section 3.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Failure by any of these agencies to perform under
these arrangements would be an event of default (Section 7.01(d) of the draft
Loan Agreement). To clarify the obligations of the federal and local authorities
under the project, the Government would enter into project agreements with the
project cities as a condition for disbursement of the Bank loan. These agree-
ments would include terms and conditions required to ensure the smooth execution
of the project (Sections 3.05 and 2(c) of Schedule 1 and Schedule 5 to the draft
Loan Agreement). Those terms and conditions would include the establishment at
the local level of a subproject management unit; a local technical coordinating
committee to periodically review project execution; and a municipal development
fund to recover project costs. SDU would supervise the execution of the project.
The General Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior would maintain a qualified
project coordinator and establish and staff an appraisal group, a supervision
group and a financial management and control group for purposes of the project
as a condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan (Sections 3.07, 4.02, and
8.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). Also as a condition for effectiveness,
the Government would establish a coordinating committee consisting of represent-
atives of the participating federal sectoral agencies and the Ministry of
Interior to review the execution of the project and the work performed by the
agencies (Sections 6.02 and 8.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Project CLties and Description oE Subproject Components
50.       The proposed loan would finance subprojects in eight medium-sized
cities: Florianopolis and Pelotas in the south; Juiz de Fora and Vitoria in
the southeast; and Campina Grande, Montes Claros, Natal and Petrolina/Juazeiro



- 15 -
in the northeast. The following paragraphs (51, 52 and 53) contain a summary
description of the cities appraised by Bank staff and the proposed subprojects.
The subprojects for the other five cities included under the project would be
tailored to meet their particular needs.
51.       Florianopolis is an administrative and coastal tourist center with
a relatively stable population growth rate of about 4.0% per annum. At the
time of the last census, in 1970, Florianopolis had 227,000 inhabitants, of
which 38% belonged to families with incomes below the relative poverty level.
Florianopolis' urban development plan aims to make the city the specialized
service center of Brazil's southern coast. Small and informal sector enter-
prises will support Florianopolis' role. The subproject proposed for the city
emphasizes urban infrastructure investments in poor neighborhoods (drainage,
water supply, sanitation, shelter, and urban transport). A sewerage project
would protect a lagoon as a major tourist attraction and shrimp fishing area.
Small and informal sector enterprises would benefit from the provision of
technical assistance, personnel training, and the expansion of an industrial
park. Other subproject components would include the establishment of coopera-
tives for fishermen and milk producers and formation of associations of
self-employed laundry and handicrafts workers. Also the subproject would
include construction of schools for about 5,000 pupils. These would be
complemented by creches for about 2,300 children in poor neighborhoods.
Lastly, it would include a refectory for serving meals to 2,000 workers in the
central area.
52.       Juiz de Fora has a strong industrial tradition and was once the
center of the Brazilian textile industry. Its population is growing at a
rate of about 6% per annum and is expected to reach half a million by 1985.
In 1970, 69% of the families had incomes below the relative poverty level.
Juiz de Fora hopes to consolidate and reinforce the revival of the industrial
sector closely associated with its successful industrial district. The Juiz
de Fora subproject stresses the development of small-scale enterprises and
the satisfaction of urban infrastructure needs of the urban poor. The water
supply component would extend water supply services to 72,000 people, mostly
poor. Refuse collection would be provided for people living in peripheral
areas. Poor families would be the target of three sites and services proj-
ects. Pre-school centers, with classrooms and canteen facilities, would
improve infant nutrition and teach mothers basic nutrition and hygiene prin-
ciples. Health posts would benefit a population of about 50,000 in poor
neighborhoods. The industrial park component would provide infrastructure
and technical assistance to small-scale and informal sector textile manufac-
turers (there are 7,000 of them in the city). The subproject would also
include a manpower training component and warehouses to improve food dis-
tribution to low-income neighborhoods.
53.       Natal, the impoverished capital of the state of Rio Grande do Norte,
has virtually no industrial base. In addition to administrative functions,
Natal supports the agricultural activities of its rural hinterland. Natal
had about 350,000 inhabitants in 1975 and was growing at a yearly rate in
excess of 5.0%. In 1970, an estimated 21% of all urban families subsisted
with incomes equivalent to one fifth of the relative poverty level. Seventy



- 16 -
percent of the families had incomes below the relative poverty level. Natal's
development plan aims to provide basic infrastructure to its poor population
to eliminate a major source of health problems. It also aims to improve
employment opportunities for its large, substantially underemployed labor
force. The proposed subproject would extend water supply and sanitation
facilities to about 125,000 poor urban dwellers. It would also include
drainage and urban transport components in poor neighborhoods. Furthermore,
it would include a small sites and services project. To enhance job oppor-
tunities, the subproject would include a technical assistance program for
small and informal sector enterprises and the establishment of a fishing
cooperative and expansion of two artisan cooperatives. Food distribution
systems for poor neighborhoods would be improved with the creation of central
warehouses and open-air markets.
Project Cost and Financing
54.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$200.0 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$48.0
million, most, if not all, of which is expected to be indirect. The cost esti-
mates for the three subprojects appraised by Bank staff include physical contin-
gencies ranging from 5% to 20% depending on the status of the design work. For
the subprojects not appraised by Bank staff, global estimates have been made.
On average, the cost of these subprojects is estimated at a level roughly
equivalent to the cost of the subprojects in the cities already appraised.
Subprojects would be tailored so that their their total cost does not exceed
available resources. Price contingencies in US dollar terms have been added
at a rate of 7% per annum.
55.       The proposed US$70 million loan would finance 35% of the estimated
cost of the project. It would finance the estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent and US$22 million of the local cost. The proposed percentage of parti-
cipation is consistent with the Government's request for a minimum Bank
presence. In a country like Brazil, which is making a vigorous effort to
mobilize domestic resources, it is appropriate for the Bank to give some
assistance in the financing of local currency expenditures for projects
which, like the present one, have a low foreign exchange content and are
oriented to satisfy the needs of low-income groups. The Government would
match the Bank contribution (35%) using funds from FNDU. The remaining
30% of project costs would be met by states and municipalities, using their
own budgetary resources and a special credit line opened by the National
Housing Bank (BNH) for the project. Project expenditures would not burden the
finances of the project cities unduly. The financing plan is as follows:



- 17 -
Florianopolis  Juiz de Fora  Natal  Other Cities  Total
-------------------In US$ Millions---------------------
IBRD                         8.8            7.9         6.8      46.4         70.0
FNDU                         8.8            7.9         6.8      46.4         70.0
States and
Municipalities /a          7.5            6.9         5.9      39.9         60.0
25.1          22.7        19.5      132.7       200.0
/a   Part to be financed out of budgetary resources and part out of a special
credit line from BNH.
Participating Federal Sectoral Agencies
56.       The following federal sectoral agencies would participate in the
project. They would carry out a variety of tasks but primarily they would
help SDU to appraise and supervise subprojects. These agencies already
carry out these functions as part of their regular operations. The proposed
project would only expand their activities in the project cities.
(a)  Banco Nacional da Habitacao/National Housing Bank (BNH).
BNH, the National Housing Bank (para. 34), would appraise
the infrastructure components of subprojects, supervise
and approve final designs, certify to SDU that procure-
ment, contracting, and execution have all been correctly
carried out, and produce monitoring and evaluation reports.
For infrastructure components, BNH would also be respons-
ible for channelling FNDU and Bank loan funds to the
cities. In addition, BNH has allocated US$91 million
equivalent out of its own resources for loans to cities
for infrastructure works under the medium-sized cities
development program (para. 55).
(b)  Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos/Brazilian
Urban Transport Company (EBTU). EBTU (para. 34) would
appraise, supervise, and monitor urban transport compo-
nents of subprojects. No special adjustments or addi-
tional staff would be required for the project. EBTU
would also be responsible for channelling FNDU and the
Bank loan funds for urban transport projects.
(c)  Centro Brasileiro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa/
Brazilian Center for Managerial Assistance to the Small
and Medium-Sized Enterprise (CEBRAE). CEBRAE would act
as SDU's consultant for subproject components related to
small and informal sector enterprises. CEBRAE would coordi-
nate all aspects of these components and partipate in their
appraisal, supervision and monitoring. CEBRAE would work
with COBAL (subpara. e) on food distribution projects, with
SUDEPE (subpara. f) on fishing cooperative projects, and with
SINE (subpara. d) on projects dealing with the informal sector.
CEBRAE has assembled a team of six professionals, supplemented
by consultants, to work on the project.



- 18 -
(d) Sistema Nacional de Emprego/National Employment System
(SINE). The Ministry of Labor through SINE would provide
technical assistance and credit supervision to informal
sector businesses, and facilitate communication between them
and formal sector institutions, such as banks and raw
materials suppliers. It would assign a team of five profes-
sionals to the project at the federal level. The coordinating
office of SINE would carry out project appraisal and supervision,
and state level offices would advise on project preparation and
execution.
(e) Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos/Brazilian Foodstuffs
Company (COBAL). COBAL is responsible for improving food
supply and distribution in Brazil. Under the project, COBAL
would be responsible for the establishment of central food
warehouses in the project cities to support retail grocers in
poor areas. The national COBAL organization would handle
appraisal, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation; local
COBAL agents would provide technical assistance in project
preparation and implementation. When its own local agencies
are the executing agencies for a project, COBAL would also
provide working capital, personnel, and training. No new
staff would be required for the initial operation of the
project.
(f) Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Pesca/Agency for
Fisheries Development (SUDEPE). SUDEPE would appraise
and supervise fishing cooperative subprojects. A team of
twelve professionals has been assigned to this task. At
the local level, two persons in selected project cities
would work with local authorities in project preparation;
local offices would also furnish progress reports on project
execution.
Procurement
57.       Contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with pro-
cedures based on existing legislation which are consistent with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Brazil has a competitive construction industry capable
of carrying out the project works and a manufacturing industry capable of
producing the equipments required. Foreign contractors and equipment suppliers
are not expected to be interested in bidding because of the size of the
contracts involved, their wide geographical distribution and the participation
of a large number of agencies. However, they would not be excluded from bidding.
Because of the large number of contracts expected, Bank staff would limit their
prior review to contracts of over US$0.5 million. For contracts reviewed
ex post facto, if it were determined that the bidding and awards had not been
conducted in accordance with the agreed procedures, the Bank would have the
the right to cancel an amount of the loan equivalent to 35%, of the value of
the contract involved (Section B (2) of Schedule 4 to the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Subject to previous Bank agreement, force account may be used for minor
works where bidding would involve costs and delays disproportionate to the
works involved. The total amount involved is not expected to exceed US$5
million. Also, goods costing less than US$10,000 equivalent may be procured
on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers. The total
amount of goods procured on this basis would not exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent.
Disbursements and Flow of Funds
58.        Bank funds would be disbursed against civil works contracts.  The
disbursement percentage would be 60%. Disbursements would be on the basis
of statements of expenditures submitted by SDU and supported by statements
of the subproject components involved, itemizing the contracts let, location
of works, and amount disbursed. Detailed documentation supporting the state-
ments of expenses, including supervision reports and certification of works
and disbursements by the federal sectoral agencies, would be retained by the
project management units for review by Bank staff and independent auditors
(Section 5.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the Borrower and would
make the proceeds from the loan available to the General Secretariat of the
Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior would pass the proceeds of the
loan together with matching funds from FNDU to the project cities as grants
directly, through the National Housing Bank (BNH) in case of infrastructure
projects, or through the Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU) in case of
urban transport projects. The cities would lend these funds together with
their own resources to executing agencies for the following subproject compo-
nents: food distribution systems, industrial parks, and equipment for coopera-
tives. For the following components funds would be transferred as grants to
the executing agencies: technical assistance to small and informal sector
enterprises and cooperatives, manpower training, water supply, sewerage, urban
transport, sites and services, drainage, community facilities and trash collection
(Sections 3.02 and 24 of Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). The executing
agencies would use the funds recovered from final beneficiaries to carry out
similar undertakings in the future.
Project Monitoring
60.       SDU would monitor the progress of the project in accordance with a
program satisfactory to the Bank. For this purpose it would employ a computer-
ized system already being used by the Government to monitor other projects
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). This system provides a project-
by-project statement of physical progress and financial expenditures and
compares them with the forecasts made during project appraisal. It also pro-
vides key statements containing basic information on the accomplishment of
project objectives using quantitative indicators.
Project Benefits and Urban Poverty Impact
61.       It is expected that by 1983 nearly 2 million people in the eight
medium-sized cities included in the project would directly benefit from
improved urban infrastructure and services and enhanced job opportunities.
(This figure does not include the beneficiaries of drainage, transportation,
community facilities, food distribution systems, and municipal administration
components). SDU would strengthen its staff, gain experience in project



- 20 -
preparation, appraisal and supervision, and establish formal relations with
other agencies working in the urban sector. Local institutions would receive
similar benefits. It is estimated that 70% of the cost of the project would
directly benefit people with per capita incomes below the relative poverty
level. In the three cities appraised by Bank staff, the urban poverty impact
has been estimated for works representing 84% of the cost of the subprojects
in those cities. Eighty three percent of the cost of these works would
directly benefit the urban poor, ranging from 74% in Florianopolis in the
south, to 83% in Juiz de Fora in the southeast and 92% in Natal in the north-
east. Most urban infrastructure works would be located in areas of the cities
where 70% or more of the families are poor. Technical assistance would be
oriented towards small and informal sector enterprises. All of the sub-
projects would stress low-cost solutions and maximize the proportion of
benefits channelled directly to the urban poor (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement and draft supplemental letter).
62.       The combined economic rate of return for the works included in the
three subprojects already appraised, which account for 66% of the total cost
of those subprojects, is estimated at 29%. For Florianopolis, the economic
rate of return is estimated at 28%, 31% for Juiz de Fora, and 31% for Natal.
Improvements in public health, labor productivity, and infrastructure for
economic and social development are only partly reflected in the benefit
streams used to compute these rates of returns. The economic and social
benefits of the proposed project, therefore, exceed the quantifiable returns.
Eligibility Criteria and Cost Recovery
63.       Each subproject component would meet the following criteria:  (a) be
technically justified in terms of efficiency of design and operation; (b) be
the least cost solution to meet a specific need; (c) address the needs of the
urban poor (in general, be located in urban poverty areas); (d) be scheduled
for execution by competent agencies; and (e) have adequate arrangements to
cover operating and maintenance costs. Whenever an economic analysis may be
feasible, subproject components would have to be economically justified at a
discount rate of at least 11%. Food distribution, industrial infrastructure,
technical assistance to cooperatives and water supply and sewerage components
would have positive internal financial rates of return. Companies operating
food distribution systems and industrial parks and cooperatives would undertake
to operate on a sound financial basis. Sites and services components would be
financially viable. Lots would be sold to final beneficiaries according to
the standard terms and conditions of BNH, which include monetary correction.
Eligibility criteria for other components reflect their characteristics. For
instance, a nominal fee would be charged to beneficiaries of vocational training
courses and a reduced fee to small and informal sector enterprises benefitting
from technical assistance (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement and draft
supplemental letter).
64.       The recovery of the cost of the project from final beneficiaries of
water supply and sewerage, industrial parks, sites and services, food distri-
bution systems and cooperative financing components should be ensured through
the eligibility criteria for subproject components and the channelling of
the project funds as loans with monetary correction to commercially oriented



- 21 -
components (para. 59). The cost of technical assistance to small and informal
sector enterprises and cooperatives and vocational training would be only
partly recovered from final beneficiaries. This is in line with past Brazilian
and Bank practices. The cost of urban transport, trash collection, drainage
components and community facilities would be recovered through taxation.
Loans to commercial entities would be repaid to municipalities who would pay
them into local urban development funds. The municipalities would use the
proceeds of these funds to replicate the project. Utilities, housing and
technical assistance agencies would keep the funds recovered from final
beneficiaries and use them in similar future projects.
Affordability
65.       Families with incomes of about one third of the relative poverty
level would be able to afford the basic urban infrastructure services to be
provided under the project. In the case of water supply, for instance, the
state water companies would reduce and finance connection fees so that low-
income families may afford them. Water supply tariffs for low consumption
levels should not exceed 5% of the monthly regional minimum wage according to
existing legislation. In fact, in most states, tariffs do not even reach that
level. Sanitation works would be financed over long enough periods so that
families with incomes of less than one minimum wage may afford them. The
financing plan and design standards for sites and services components should
ensure that families with incomes very close to the minimum wage have access
to them. In summary, subproject components have been designed to low enough
standards so that families in the lowest levels of the income spectrum may
have access to them.
Project Risks
66.       The proposed project involves a higher than usual degree of risk.
The Brazilians have limited experience in coordinating the preparation and
execution of integrated urban development projects. SDU's staff is
committed to the goals of the project. However, it would require further
strengthening, as mentioned in para. 49 above, to effectively carry out its
coordinating role. The active participation of well-established sectoral
agencies in the preparation, appraisal and supervision of subprojects would
provide the required expertise to carry them out successfully and reduce the
risk associated with the project. This is particularly so since their role
under the project would fall well within the usual scope of their activities.
Moreover, the undertakings that the Government has given to the Bank would
ensure a tight control over the execution of the project. These factors
make the risk acceptable.
67.       The project involves two specific risks, one associated with the
preparation and appraisal of subprojects in the cities not appraised by Bank
staff and the other with the capabilities of the local executing agencies to
carry out the various components of each subproject in a timely and economic
fashion. The following steps have been taken to minimize the first of these
risks. Criteria for subproject appraisal have been agreed upon between-the
Bank and the Government (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and draft



- 22 -
supplemental letter). Procedures have been developed for preparation and
review of subprojects. CNPU and federal sectoral agencies staff worked
together with Bank staff in the appraisal of three cities. SDU (which has
received CNPU's technical staff) has presented to the Bank a generally satis-
factory appraisal of the subproject in one additional city (para. 47). These
steps should reduce the first risk substantially. To minimize the second risk,
project management units would be established in each city as a condition for
disbursement (Sections 2(c)(iii) of Schedule 1 and 3 of Schedule 5 to the
draft Loan Agreement); an information system to detect possible problems at
an early stage has been prepared; a technical committee would be set up in
each city to ease communications among agencies; execution of subprojects
would be supervised by experienced federal agencies; and both SDU and Bank
staff would closely monitor project execution, particularly at the early
stages.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, and the draft Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special effectiveness conditions are described in paras. 47
and 49. Special disbursement conditions are described in paras. 47, 49,
and 64.
70.       A special feature of the draft Loan Agreement is that it will be
declared effective after only one of the eight sub-project agreements between
the Government, the states and the cities has been signed. This would enable
the Bank to start disbursing for those cities that have complied earlier than
others with this condition   (Sections 8.01(b) and 8.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 22, 1979
Washington, D.C.



- 23 -                                                    ANNEX T
rAlke i
_ tRAZII - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA  IW.ET
URAZIL                    REFEREtNCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. FM.)                                              - KOST RECENT ESTIMATFr)
TOTAL          d512.0                                                 SAME        SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    2066.0                               MOST RECENT    CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960  b    1970 /b ESTIKATE lb      REGION Le  CROUP /d   GROUP L
GM? PER CAPITA (US")                320.0       580.0   1390.0          1066.7    1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(mLoGRAKS or COAL tQUIVALEST)     332.0      474.0    SJ0.0            911.1    1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAl. POPULATION, KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                       69.8       92.8    113.2
UlRAN POPULATION (PERCENTr OP TOTAL) 44.5      55.7     61.4            57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Kt.                       8.0        11.0      13.3           25.6       27.6        55.8
PE1 SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.0        49.0      55.0           77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURZE (PERCENT)
O-k4 YRS.                        43.0        42.0     41.7            42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 Yns.                        54.0       55.0      55.1            52.2       56.0       55.3
65 YRS. AND AIOVE                  3.0         3.0       3.2            3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION CROWTH RATt (PERCQNT)
TOTAL                             3.0         3.0       2.8            2.7        I.b         2.9
URBAN                             5.5         5.0       4.4            4.1        3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TEOUSAND)    40.8        38.4     37.1            35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUSAND)    11.7         9.9       8.8            9.1        9.9         7.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.6         2.6       2.5            2.6        1.9         1.6
IAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ASNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERCENT Of MARRIED WE)    ..           1.6       ..            15.1       19.3
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PR CAPITA (1970-100)             87.8       100.0    112.3           102.1      103.8       114.7
PtR CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIRDINTS)                  102.0       104.0    105.0           103.9      110.4       113.4
PIOTEINS (CRAKS PER DAY)         61.0        64.0     62.1            60.3       77.7        89.9
Or WICII ANIMAL AND PULSE      38.0        39.0      33.6           26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..         ..        ..             8.7        1.9
IEALTh
LITZ EPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    56.0        59.4     61.4            62.6       63.0        60.2
tNFANT MSORTALITY RATE (PER
lWOUSAJD)                         180.0       110.0       *-            56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        56.3      71.7           60.1       67.7        83.0
URtlAN                             *-        77.7     153.2           78.0       83.5       100.0
RtURAL                             ..        29.0      52.9           34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAI. (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        59.9      65.5           b1.1       70.3        57.8
URBAN                              ..        86.1     86.3            80.3       90.7        99.3
RUmAL                              ..        26.5      39.0           25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2170.0      1910.0   1650.0  f       1899.3    1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON        ..      3220.0   2920.0 j        1220.1      849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                           275.0       260.0    260.0           422.U      275.4       325.8
LURAN                              ..         ..        ..           258.2      129.9       250.0
WRUAL                              ..         ..        ..          2281.6      96s.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSYITAL BED          ..        18.0       ..            25.6       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERArE SIZE Or HOUStEOLD
TOTAL                             5.1         4.8       ..             5.2        3.9
URBAN                              ..         4.6       ..
1RUAL                              ..         5.2       ..
AVERArE NRER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.1       1.i If         2.0        0.9
URBAN                              ..         1.0       1.2 7T         2.1        0.8
URAL                               ..         1.2       1.2            2 2.7      1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PEkCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                            38.7        47.6      S5.1           51.2       59.2
URBAN                               -        75.b      77.9           77.3       78.0
RURAL                              ..         8.4      12.5           12.8       12.5



- 24 -
ANNEX I
3Az41  - SOX1Al. INDICATORiS nArA .il:T
IRAZiL                      REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAHE      NEXT HIGHER
HOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCONE         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTINATE lb        REGION /c   GROUP /1    GROUP to
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENILOLlrZNT itATIOS
nRIHARY       TOTAL                 95.0         83.0       90.0             L03.5       97.6        104.1
rEKALE                93.0         83.0       90.0            102.9        87.4        120.3
*OilDARiTt   TOTAL                  11.0         22.0       26.0             37.2        47.8         '4.7
FEIILE                10.0         27.0       20.0             37.9        42.6         46.0
wJCATIONAL (PRCmT or SECONDARY) 19.0              17.0      4710 A            14.7       22.7        1.7
rPurL-TCJICO   RATIO
PRIMAitY                             33.0        28.0       22.0              32.61      25.4         30.6
SEWODARY                            I.0         13.0       11.0              11.8       24.9         16.1
ADULT LlTIRACT RATt (PEgtCDT)          61.0         66.0        ..              74.9        96.3
CObSUHMT tON
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0        25.0       35.0             26.9        32.3         53.4
itADIO RECEIVERS PER TiHOUSAND
POPULATIaN                          66.0         60.0       60.0             1713S      201.9        195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.0          66.0       83.0             69.4        97.7        108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CiRCULATION PER
TVSUSAND POPUIATION                    54.0         31.0      39.0              72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0             1.9         .               6.3         6.4
DIPLOTEYKNT
rDTAL LABORi FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0       29400.0   34100.0
PDtALE (PERCENIT)                   17.5         20.4       21.6             21.4        17.4         26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                52.0        60.4       37.8              37.8       38.4         25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  146. 8         .3                                      ..
PARTICIPATION itATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  32.0         31.6      31.5              30.8        33.7        40.1
KALE                                   52.7         50.3      69.5              47.2        50.8        55.8
PD(ALz                                 11.2         12.3      13.6              13.2        12.6        26.7
ECONIIOC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1.5        1.4              1.7         1.4          1.6
INCOGi  DISTRRI9USTON
PEICENT or rtiVATr INCOltM
tECZIVtD bY
NIGHEST 1 PERCENT OP HOUSiHolDS   1121 /          i4                          28.   / h 20.:
IGHEST 20 rERCENT 0  NUUSEHOLDS   4. S /          2 4.2 2;                   57 .       47 9
WIIESr 20 PERCENT OF ROUSrNOLDS    1.5 T           3.2 2      ..               3.12       3.2
tWiEST 40 PERCENr OF ilOUSCitOLDS   11.6 /h       10.0         .              10.7       13.7
PoVIRTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US2 PER CAPITA)
URBA                                   ..          ..         ..            25t.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      150.0            200.6       157.9
gSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US PER CAPITA)
URrAN                                               .       65.0           '403.1       648.8
IRA                                    .            ..     332.0             258.0      313.1
ESTIHATED POPUULATION SCLW POVERTY
INCOlE LEVEL (PERCENT)
UllRAI                                             *        34.0             24.8        23.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..      55.0             65.2        54.5
Not avatlable
Not applicable.
IOTES
/-    The adjusted group av.rages for *-ch indicator are population-wlghted geometric mean, excluding the extreme
values of the tndicator and thq eat populated country In each group.  Coverage of countries aong the
indicators depends on vaelabiliry of dat. and 1- not uniform.
/b    Usloa. otherwise noted, data for 1960 roter to any year bet.e.n 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; snd for Moat Recent Ertute. between 19713 and 1977:
Li    Latin America & Caribben; n    d  Upper Middle Income (3 136-2500 per capit,. 1976);  1. Nigh Incom
(over $2500 par capita. 1976);  /I  1972;  LI  Beginning 1973. duration of general educatrn reduced
from 7 to 6 yeang. therefore d.tc  my not be coparabla to tho"a of *arlier years;  /h  Dtr  refer
to economically ective popultion.
September. 1978



-25-
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Page 3
N i:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, escluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and extreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ki)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent sotimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private goneral and opecioliced hospital and in-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                               at least one physician.   Establishments providing principally custodial
care ore pot included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                     cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse,  idwife, etc.) which offer in-patient actommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of conssrcil energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermasl electicity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average sie of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population. mid-Year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      snd their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average  of  two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of tot-l) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                                  ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electrlcity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for sgrinultural land                      Convetinal,  I dwellings with s1ctninity in living quarters as perctntage
only.                                                                                     of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), snd retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for countries vith universal edo-
mid-year population; ten-year arithnetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        bove the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of Mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                     tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 foe mast recent estimate.                            vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproductiun rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondnce courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                          xccluded.
specific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages erding in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocationai institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                         primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family plamning - users (percent of married women) - Percentags of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to s11 married women in same age group,                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
index of food production per capita (1970D100) - Index number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger car. comprise motor cars
capita annual production of oll food commodities.                                       seating less than eight persons; occludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requiremants) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Avsilable supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 brsadcssts to general public per thousand of populstion; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies excluds animal feed, seeds,                receivers in c-ontries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; data for recent years may not be conparable since neat countries
quiremsnts were estimated by FAD based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolishsd licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per tho-sand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                        tries and in years when rsgistratinn of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined ss a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                    cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
aminimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears st least four tines a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grass should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                     sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinexas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        nits.
FAD in the Third World Fond Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                FHPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically artive persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unenployed bat eocluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                tio.s is various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor forcs as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in sining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas an percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (par thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rate (percent) - total, sale, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live binhts.                                                   emale labor force an percentages of their -repective populations.
Access tc safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                     Ihese are DIG's adjusted participation rates rflicting aese-         r
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       s tctu           rho population.  nd 1o-g tine treed.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Econnoic dependency ratio - Ratio of populaticn under 15 and 6h  and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in agf  gruup of 15-64 yesr.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INCOMPE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house nay be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
seeable access of that house.  In rcral areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 peccnt, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
itply that tho housewife or members of tho household do not have to                        uf households.
spend a disproportion.te part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to escreta disposal (percent of populatlan) - total, urban, and                    EftiIated absolute poverty income level (1S$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number  f psople. (total, urban, and rural) served by ercreta                        Absolute poverty inccme level in that income level below which a cinirci
disposal as percentages of their rmspective populations.  Excreta                          nutritionally adequate diet pluv essential ron-food require.ents is cut
disposal may i-clude the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-berne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per c-Pita) - urban and rural
or the use of pit privies and similar installatians.                                       Relative poverty inceme level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                        per -apita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who ore either "absolute pour" or
-racticing mal  and female graduate nurser, practical rurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater
assistant nurses.
Economic and Socis1 Drat Divisoin
Etonomic Analysis and P-oiections Oepartment



ANNEX t
Pege 4
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SlHEET
AC T 0 A L.                                           P R 0 J7 E C T E D                               A-oc1 R.01 Crowd  Rate
1974        1975         1976UA      1977        1978         1979        1980         1905        190         1975-77   1978-80   1981-85   1986-90      1974     1977      1980     1985      1990
A.       KITLO.iA  ACCOUNTS
(uilli-n  of US$ cc 1975 price)                                                                                                                                                                                         As Perce.t of CDY
1.  CDP (0a1ant Prices)                               117,484     124,166      135,302     141,596     150,581      159,736     169.176      255,202     390,306        6.5       6.1         8.5      8.9        99.8     97.9    100.3    100.3    99.3
2.  Cain r fra5TT 3258                                               -           1,014       3,084          444          68         -436         624       2,781                    .                    .         0.2      2.1      -0.3     -0.3      0.7
3.  Cross locsoc lo Incm-e                            117,742     124.166      136,316     144,680      151.025     159,804     168,740      254,578     593,087        7.1       5.3         8.6       9.1      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
4.  I.por_      1                                      15,468      14,333       14,236      14,145       14,984      14,491       14,259      21,582      25,789       -2.8       0.3         8.6     10.6        13.1      9.8       8.5      8.5      9.1
5.  Export. - Volume                                   8,663        9,427        9,507       9,712      10,671       11,891      13,023       19,295      29 921        3.9      10.3         8.1      8.5         7.4      6.7       :.I      7.6      7.6
6.  Exports - TT Adjusted                               8,923       9,427       10,520      12,796       11.115      116959       12 597      19,919      31,702        5.7      -0.5         9.6       9.7        7.6      8 8       7.0       7.8     * 1
7.  ORsoorce Cap (4-6)                                  6,405       4,906        3,715       1,349       3.849        2.522       1.671        1.663       4,081         .              S5.                                 0.9       1.0      8.7      1.0
0.  Cooso.ptlon                                       87,195       97,593      106,515        111.591  121.258      126,019        131,199   193 949     296,865        8.6       5.5         8.1      8.9        74.1     77.1      77.8     76.2    75.5
9.  Invsc.teoc                                         37,037      31,479       33,516      34,436      33,636         36,307    35,212       62,292     100.303       -2.4       4.4         9.7     10.8        31.4     23.8      23.2     24.5    2595
17.  Eatinoal StrIngs                                  29,220       264,71        27,170     29,707      26.186       30,253      33,860       50.152      90,80D        0.7       4.5        10.7     10.1        24.8     20.5      20.1     22.1    23.1
11,  Dcoostlo5 luologe                                  30,147      26,573       29,801      33,089      29.767       33,705      37.541       60,629      96,222        2.7       6.3        10.1      9.7        25.9     22.9      22.2     23.8    24.3
E.       KERO ASNDISE TOAnE
(Mlicnos oE US$ at Iarrect prince)
1.  Ioporte                                                                                                                                                                                                              Am *errcen of Tom1 1porm
Coonooeo Gondm                                   1,459        1,599        1,399        1,211       1,768       1,748       1,900        3,6264      6,595       -8.6       6.2         7.2      7.7         I.5     10.1      12.1     11.4    10.0
pocroleom aod Derloeclve                         2,840        2,875       3,612        3,814       4,093        5,111       5,853       11,506      22,761        8.6      10.0         6.1      9.1        22.5     31.7      37.3     36 5    3465
o-her Ioere diatce Coed.                          5,223       4,202        3,753       3,897       4,256        4,010       4,043        6.964      16,908       -3.1      -4.2        6.2      13.7        41.3     32.4      25.7     21.9    25.6
Capital Goods                                     3,119       3,934        3,619       3,101       3.522        3,685       3,905        9,577      19,695      -11.5       1.2        12.6      10.0       24.7     25.8      24.9    39.2    29.9
Teedl (FOSS                                12,641       12,210      12,383       12,023      13.639       14,554      15,701      31,761       65,947      -5,7        0.9        7.7      10.8       100.8    809.0    100.0    100.8   100.0
2.  Eporr-                                                                                                                                                                                                               A  Percemt of Te-el Eoprtlm
Coffee                                              980        934         2,398       2,625       2,288        2,151       2,296        3,453       5 56        -9.3      16.8         3.0      3.0        12.3     21.7      13.3      9.5      7.7
Oor Agrtc-lt-ral Caode                            3,415      3,4           302         3,083       3.089        4,687       3,213       11,000      20,336        a.7       5.7         5.9      6.1        43.0     32.0      30.2     30.2    28.1
HInoral                                             641      1,022         1,082         963       1,095          999       1,095        2 210       3,885       -1.6       2.3         4.7      6.9         8.1      8.8       6.3      6.1      5.3
Semi-Pro-e-end Goads                                634        645           789         988       1.384        1,408       1.581        3.234       6.101       26.0       6.2         7.7      7.7         8.0      8.1       9.1      8.9      8.4     t
Eaoo(artored loads                               2,086       2,379        2,449        3,383       4,614        5,395       6,747       15,914      33,793       13.6      18.2        12.0     12.0        26.2      2.9      -9.      43.8    49.4      0
Otor coed5 195                                                 209           351         278          181         327         356          539         778      -18.7        2.0        2.5      7.6         2.4      2.3       2.1      8.5      1.1
TtEl. (FO8)                                 7,951       9,670       10,128       12,220      12,651       14,967      17,288      36,350       72,453       3.9       10.5         7.6      8.5       100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
C.       SCTOR OUTPUT
(Share of NO0 at Factor Coec at 1970 prIces)
1.  Agrlooitor@                                          10.8       10.5         10.0         10.5         10.1        10.5        10.3          8.8          7.5       5.5       5.5         5.2       3.2
2.  Ioduecrp                                             39.2       39.4         40,1         39.7         39.9        39.3        39.2         39.2        39.8        6.9       5.7         8.7     .9.0
3.  ServIces                                             50.0       50.1         49.9         49.8         58.9        30.1        30.5         51.7        32.7        6.4       6.4         9.0       9.3
D.       PRICES (1975-1001
1.  E'porIt "rIC  lodee                                    99        100          112          133         127          133         140          202         267       10.4       1.7         7.6       5.7
2.  I-.ort P or Inoe                                       998        IO          103          112          120         131          144         194          242       6.6       8.7         6.1       4.5
3.  Trron of Trade I.dc                                   101        100          109          119          106         102           97         104          110
4.  Cooo,-I Price Ind..                                    78         100         141          202          280
5. Ahocoga E-ch.g  REats                                   84        100          131          174          222
E.       SEIECTED INOICATORS                                1975-77    1978-80       1951-85     1986-90                                              C.        EMFLyMENT                       1970            1975
1.  ICOR                                                4.231       3.124        2.925       2.979                                                    1.  L bor Farce (millie.)             29.4            34.1
2.  I=p-rt ElIstlctty                                  -0.904      0.844         1.000       1.086                                                    2. DUe._plsy.c
3.  A-9rag  Ntlacl Seriege Rsce                        0.213      0.193         0.212       D.228                                                           ( of C.1.)                      7.5             5.0
4. margiosl  Ialo.al Isoisge RSte                       0.300      0.413         0.287       0.289                                                    3. BApley.e.t (silliem)
5.  loporre/CI?                                         0.107      0.091         0.085       0.089                                                           (1 shreOs)                     27.2            32.4
6.  looro coene/ID?                                     0.248      0.228         0.239       0.252                                                  3.1.  Agr"celatrm                       43.8            39.5
7.  Omooe C ap/COD                                         2       0.017         0.008       8.009                                                  3.2.  ledoetry                           8.9            19.0
3. 3.  Serelcee                        38.2            40. 7
F.      nP.TC FlNAN;CE a/                                    1974        1975         1976         1977
(As porcooc of GDP)
1.  C,-rreot Rrfoea                                      107         9.          10.7         10.3
1.1.  Tao Oeoeo.,e                        ~~~~~        ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~19.3  9.  02  9.7
2.  C-rrcoe Eip-odiLtOe _'                                9.5        8.7          9.6          9.1
3. Current S-ois-g                                        1.2        0.8          1.1          1.2
4.  CeplEal Eepeedlt.let                                  0.6        0.S          1.0          1.2
4.1.  Goo-r-eec F.eed CaPiLc1 Fe.-stloc0 0.4                          06.                       0.4
nf  Federal Ceoverent,                       *Apr11 ,S 1979
i/  locI.dlni cepllel cress Es...                                                                                     --  Isms ihac helL th. sth .llsct emIt sho-,
neet-oalihle



ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTEREAL ASSISTANCE
(million us$)
A C T U A L                          PRELIMINARY              P R O J E C T E D
1974          1975          1976          1977            1978          1979           19d0          1985          1990
A. Surmarv of Balance of Payments
1.     Exports (incl, NFS)                       8,471          9,376        10,797        12,808          13,376        15,704         18,124        38,648        76,818
2.     Imports (incl. NFS)                       14,678        14,308        14,475        14,020          15,767        16,730         18,064        36,635        75,958
3.     Resource Balance                         -6,207         -4,932        -3,678        -1,212          -2,391        -1.,026            60         2,013           860
4.     Net Factor Service Income                  - 916        -1,770        -2,339        -2,825          -3,420        -3,838         -4,297        -7,454       -11,589
a. Net Interest Pavments                     - 652        -1,498        -1,809        -2,104           -2,500        -2,880        -3,234        -5,288         -8,145
b. Direct Investment Income                  - 248         - 235         - 380         - 455            - 575         - 542         - 590         -1,030        -1,775
c. Other Factor Service Income               -  16         -  37         - 150         - 266            - 345         - 416         - 473         -1.136        -1,669
5.     Current Transfers (Net)                        1             2             4            -               76              7             7             7              7
6.     Balance on Current Account               -7,122    -  -6,700          -6,013        -4,037          -5,735        -4,857         -4,230        -5,434       -10,723
7.     Net Private Direct Investment                887           892           962           810             800            770           760           750            750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Loans
a. Traditional Sourcesa/
(i) Disbursements                       1,956         1,612         2,054         2,553           2,888         3,722         4,204          7,035        11,230
(ii) Amortization                        - 739         - 992        -1,350        -1,701          -1,842        -1,652         -1,960        -4,421        -7,048
(iii) Net Disbursements                   1,217           .620          703           852           1,046          2,070         2,244         2,614         4,182
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                      5,103         4,524          5,978         5,940,         11,364         3,168          7,247         9,088        17,765
(ii) Amortization                       -1,181        -1,194        -1,669        -2,426          -3,526         -4,150        -5,734        -5,920        -9,719
(iii) Net Disbursements                   3,922         3,330         4,309         3,514           7,838          - 982         1,513         3,168          8,046
9.     Use of IMF Resources                         -               7           -             -               -              -             -             -              -
10.     Short-term  Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138              789         2,294         - 440           - 122            -             -             -              -
11.     Reserves (-= increass)
a. Reserve Accumulation-                        958         1,062        -2,255         - 699          -3,825         2,999          - 287        -1,098        -2,255
b. Dollar Valuation Adjustment                  185           176         - 252         -  16           - 660            -             -             -
c. Changes in Reserve Levels/                1,143         1,238        -2,507          - 715         -4,485          2,999          - 287        -1,098        -2,255
12.     Foreign Exchange Reserves                  5,272         4,034         6,541         7,256          11,741          8,742         9,029        10,127         12.382
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.     Total X&LT Loans                           7,179         7,005         9,482         9,738          15,349
1.1    IBRD                                         242           426           498           425              705
1.2    IDB                                          203           167           186           270              300
1.3    Governments                                  518           512         1,251         1,184           1,311
1.4    Suppliers                                  1,088         1,376         1,300         1,100            1,186
1.5    Bonds                                         25           -             269           819            1,000
1.6    Financial Credits                          5,103         4,524         5,978         5,940           10,847
C. Memorandum Irms
1.     Grant Element of Total Comitmients             2.5           2.5           2.5            2.8             *
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                     9.5           9.5            9.4           9.3             8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Years)                       9.0           9.9           8.3            8.9            10.6
T/ Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
b/  IFS Line 79d.
c/  IFS Line ld.                                                                                                                                                              April 5. 1979
...  not available



-  28  -                                                     Aegh  1
P'age 6
DEBIT AtD CRlDITwORTmIThESS
Actual                       tre-I,IMLV,ry
1974         1975         1976         1977          1978
A. Medium- and Lng-Term Debt
(Disbursed onLy)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                         17,166        21,171       25,985       32,037        40,968
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                      11,211       14,561       18,194       21,528        28,849
(2) Traditional Lenders!/                                   5,955        6,610        7,791       10,509        12,119
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                          8,533       11,461       14,852       19,309        24,704
(2) Private                                                 8,633        9,710       11,133       12,729        16,264
2,  Net Debt Service                                                 2,572        3,683        4,825        6,231         7,851
a.  Total Interest                                              1,370         1,b63        2,091        2,462         3,200
b.  Net Interest                                                   652        1,498        1,810        2,103         2,500
3.  Public Debt Service                                              1,287        1,550        1,982        2,505         3,923
S.  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratiob/                                          30.4         39.3         44.7          48.6         58.7
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratios/                                    33.3         41.8         48.2         52.2          63.0
3. Public Debt Service Ratio                                          15.2         16.5         18.4         19.6          29.3
4.  Liquidity RatioA/                                                 23.0         33.3         43.0          39.2          ...
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                               2.3          3.0          3.3           3.8          4.1
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                            1.2          1.3          1.4           1.5          2.0
7. Total DOD/GDP                                                      15.6         17.1         17.8         19.3          21.1
C. Terms
a.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DODe!                                 10.9         10.9          9.9           9.5         10.0
2. Net Debt Service/Total DODS/                                       20.5         21.5         22.8          24.0         24.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                           48.1         42.9         55.5         60.6          90.4
2.  Net Transfer,'rmports (incl. NFS)/                               25.7         14.6         20.2          13.6         36.1
3. Not Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                   53.4         34.0         36.4          22.4         39.9
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                       3.5          4.1          2.2           3.5          2.6
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                 4.9          5.2          5.0           4.8          4.6
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                 3.0          2.5          2.4           2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                               Outstanding December 31, 1978 (Prel.)
Amount                                  Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                 1,812                                    4.4
2. Other Multilateral                                                      995                                    2.5
3. Governments                                                           3,328                                    8.1
4.  Suppliers                                                            3.570                                    8.7
5.  Bonds                                                                2,208                                    5.4
6.  Financial Credits                                                   28,849                                   70.4
7. Other                                                                   206                                    0.5
S. Total MbLT Debt                                                      40,968                                  100.0
9.  Total Public MbLT Debt                                              24,704 (est.)                            60.3
C.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1979-85/Total DOD end of 1978                                             209.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of cxports of goods and NFS.
c/ Including DOrcct Inveetment Income ln debt service.
d/ Net Debt Service nas a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
t   Net tranisfer is equal to total net dlsbursements minus gross interent.
...  not available
Note:  Debt mervice ratios halve been calculated on the baHis of npt ratlher than gross Interest payments in
order to take into nceo,nt interest earned upon Brazil's interiatior.al reserves.
April 5, 1979



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower               Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                            Ports                45.0          11.4
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica             Industry             64.5           .1
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas       Power                60.0            .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972 Brazil                             Land Settlement       6.7           1.5
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power               125.0         35.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry        54.0          31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power                81.0         32.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply         36.0           3.2
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education            23.5          17.8
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways            175.0          28.5
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads               110.0         35.8
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0          76.8
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0         54.8
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture          23.0          16.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways             75.0          37.2
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0            11.0
1206   1976  Brazil                            Development Bank   85.0           68.7
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads         55.0          53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                            Agriculture          40.0          36.5
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer           50.0          15.2
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de           Power                52.0          34.1
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                      Power                 50.0          40.2
1302    1976  Brazil                          Nutrition             19.0          18.2
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            40.0          29.2
1317    1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                 82.0          48.8
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   42.0            28.3
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer            64.0          60.2
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer            82.0          51.6
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                          Education             32.0          31.0
1488    1977  Brazil                          Rural Development   17.0            16.4
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage               110.0         110.0
1537    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   24.0            23.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                130.0         130.0
1557    1978  Brazil                          Roads                114.0         114.0
1562    1978  COPESUL                         Petrochemicals        85.0          82.5
1563    1978  Brazil                          Urban Transport       88.0          84.5
1568    1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension   100.0           100.0
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0            37.0
1654 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0              93.0
1656 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             100.0
1660 /1 1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum              98.0          98.0
Total                                             4,178.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                541.0
Total now outstanding                             3,637.2
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid            37.7            8.1
Total now held by Bank                            3,629.1
Total undisbursed                                                1,981.0
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



- 31 -                              A~~~~~~~~NtEX II
- 31 -                                           Pa ge 3
B. STATEKENT OF IFC 7NVESThENTS  (as of          31  1979)
Fiscal Year                          Obligor                                     Type of Business         Amount in US$ mi.l_1;
Lonns    Equity    Tot
1957              Siemens du Brasil Cia. de Eletrlcidade                     Electrical Equiprent       2.00       -       2n
1958              Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                           Pulp and Paper             1.20       -       1._
1958              D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                           Automotive Parts           0.45       -       O.-
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                    Motor Vehicles             2.45       -
1959              Companhia Mineira de Cimenito Portland, S.A.               Cement                     1.20       -
1959              Champion Celulose, S.A.                                    Pulp                       4.00       -       4.0C
1966/1968/
1972              Acos Villares, S.A.                                        Steel                      8.00      1.93     9.9.
1966/1969         Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                         Pulp and Paper             3.78'    3.41      7.1'
196711972         Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                        Fertilizers                8.22      3.03    11.25
1969              Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                   Petrochemicals             5.50      2.88     8.3S
1970              Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                    Petrochemicals             5.50      2.88     8.38
1971              Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                         Petrochemicals             4.60      1.44     6.04
1971              Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                  Pulp                       4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975         Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                     Cement                    29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA               Steel                     76.96      7.50    84.46
1973              Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                   Capital Market
Development               5.00      -        5.00
1973/1978         Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                     Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEIIN, S.A.                                 Refining                 85.00      8.34    93.34
1974              Industrias Villares, S.A.                                  Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00       -       6.00
1974              Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                           Textiles                  31.00       _      31.00
1975              Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                           Carbon Black               6.18      1.08     7.26
1975              Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals            10.00       -      10.00
1976              Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.              Textiles                   6.45      1.00     7.45
1976              Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste              Textiles                   6.00       -       6.00
1977              FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                            Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00      -       20.00
1977              Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                Utining                   15.00       -      15.00
1978              Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                    Iron and Steel             t.0       3.0     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                                            355.53    39.69   395.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                             261.74      8.51   270.25
Total Commiitments Now Held by IFC                                                  93.79    31.18   124.97
Total Undisbursed                                                                   64.38      6.94    71.32



-32-
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980. Accordingly, a postponement of the closing date will be
required. In spite of tariff increases, the financial condition of
the Port of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation
for civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was substantially
completed in September 1978 at a total project cost of US$970.4
million. This is twenty-six months behind the appraisal schedule
and at a cost of US$593.6 million (157%) higher than anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Production reached 2.05 million tons
of raw steel equivalent in 1978 compared with 1.54 million tons
in 1977 and 2.34 million tons forecast for 1979 when the plant
is operating at full capacity. In spite of the capital cost
increase the project remains competitive because of the corre-
sponding increase in international prices in steel. Emphasis
will now be placed by management on reducing production costs
and financial and administrative expenses to improve internal
cash generation.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does
not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. The first four units of the
power plant were commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-33-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The road component of the project now completed was reduced from the
original 306 km to 238 km. The settlement agency, COLONE, has pre-
pared revised farm development plans whose credit component, to be
financed by public financial institutions, will be significantly
higher than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release
of public funds for farm credit, road construction and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project staff de-
layed the start of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered
by the lack of assured financing, and this problem is compounded by
cost overruns presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 65% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date; March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the new Government, which took office in March 1979,
on the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of March 31, 1979, 91% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed.  It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979. In early 1979, the Government increased COPASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and has started to make payments to the railway to meet
deficits on uneconomic services. These actions should significantly
improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
_      Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
Ajj&ut 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project is being revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III is proceeding at a reduced pace in part because of un-
certainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds to fully
finance the project. COSIPA has released the preliminary report of
the project based on the revision mentioned above. The preliminary
estimate of the revised project cost is US$1.7 billion which is
44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project remains
economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. The waters from
the recent floods have now substantially receded and construction
is expected to resume at a normal rate.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. The
Government recently deregulated most freight tariffs and is starting
to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport Master Plan
indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will be required.



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily in the
areas of extension, marketing, applied research, and health. Two
potential problems could affect Phase II implementation: (i) the
possibility of a severe drought, and (ii) the relocation of the
POLONORDESTE program between government agencies and between cities,
and the possibility of a reorganization. The recent change in
state administration is having a favorable impact on the project.
The new administration is already taking drought-relief measures,
and has indicated its strong support of the project, and particularly
of Phase II implementation.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date; August 26, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) differences between the relending terms of the agencies concerned
and those required under the Loan Agreement; (ii) a leveling off of
the industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
commitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates
and a general slow-down in investments. The Closing Date for
this loan has been postponed to September 30, 1979 to allow dis-
bursements to continue while the Government and the Bank hold
discussions concerning the project.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Six sub-loans totalling US$106 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$25 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be
committed by September/October 1979.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA, which took place after federal and state
elections. Imposed hiring constraints significantly affected
the civil works, consultant services, and training components of
this project. The outlook for the remainder of 1979 should be more
favorable with a resumption of normal hiring procedures since the
new government has now taken office.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Proiect:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date:  July 20, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27.
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily. After a slow start, the agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
understaffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components are behind schedule because of competitive
programs at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the staffing
problems are being studied by the new government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state. It is envisaged that the closing date will have
to be extended by one year to September 30, 1981, to allow for
completion of disbursements.



-38-
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
have not started.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977, Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project: US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
gathering momentum. Mainly as a result of administrative difficul-
ties, participation in this project by landless producers is signif-
icantly lower than originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by
the state government and the participating banks have improved this
situation recently. The health component has advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31. 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29. 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7. 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well. Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8. 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
component of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed. The
Bank has approved the subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is
examining the proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the project has advanced satisfactorily after
initial local funding delays, and substantial progress is being made
in the majority of the components. Discussions with the new government
concerning the difficulties encountered in implementing the land
purchase credit component of the project are underway.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   approximately 18 months
(b)  Project prepared by:               CNPU and participating cities
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  January 1977
(d) First Bank mission to consider
the project:                      July 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  November 1978
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:        April 27, 1979
(g) Planned Deadline for
Effectiveness:                     September 30, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) SDU to appraise subprojects in accordance with appraisal guide-
lines satisfactory to the Bank. General Secretariat of Ministry
Interior to review SDU's experience with these guidelines and
prepare revised guidelines for projects in other medium-sized
cities (paras. 43, 47 and 67).
(b) SDU's staff to complete appraisal report on the Campina Grande
subproject and Bank approval of report to be condition for
effectiveness (para. 47).
(c) SDU's staff to appraise cities not appraised by Bank staff no
later than June 30, 1980; and disbursements for subprojects in
these cities to be conditional on completion of appraisal reports
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 47);
(d) Government to cause federal sectoral agencies to perform in
accordance with the provisions of agreements they have entered
into with Ministry of Interior for purposes of the project
(para. 49);



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Government to enter into sub-project agreements satisfactory to
the Bank with each sub-project state and city (para. 47). These
agreements would require, among other things the establishment of
project management units in each city (para. 64);
(f) General Secretariat of Ministry of Interior to staff and maintain
an appraisal group, a supervision group, and a financial management
and control group (condition for effectiveness); maintain a project
coordinator (para. 49); and monitor progress of project (para. 60);
and
(g) Government to establish a coordinating committee of federal sectoral
agency representatives (condition for effectiveness) (para. 49).



.           ),>0 ftcr;C/X j',,  ,, /                                                                                                                          Ao ge/a Ha0r,z ate 
6                                                         S O U T H > JCf sr rE BR A Z I L
AMERI CA   CrmNpeaI                   MEDIUM  SIZE CITIES PROJECT
Grnde J/ ,                         J      \ 'FO-
B R AZ I L
BRASILIAIoM
? o R A
20-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    oCr 2aSr
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CI
\>                >hf                                                                               t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r, ,'o-- po I -
PROJECT                         ~~~~~~~~~EXISTING.
NEW INDUSTRIAL ZONE                  7'   INNDUSTRIAL ZONES
____TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT AREA            =~j~  COMMERCIAL ZONES & SERVICES
^ URBANIZED LOTS                                PREDOMINANTLY POOR AREAS
WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM                       BUILT UP AREAS
HEALTH POSTS / COMMUNITY CENTER        -   MAIN ACCESS ROADS & STREETS
CHI D CARE CENTERS                         RAILROAD
* FOOD OISTE SUTION CENTER                    RIVER
Im=pD b r t he 1           ] 2  3      X    MANPOWER TRAINING CENTER             --   STATE BOUNDARIES
I < w        n E       l I s    /I   ~ _    seIv Fa/ r Sq t t K LOMETERS @ INDUSTR AL SUPPORT CENTER  ---INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  C
Ihede#WorlfWWoN ad nd re 3 ? E Xf ~~~~~~~~ -X~ DRA NAGE
run~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 1.p.n a                                                                                                                                        0(IM21l'
^,,,,, X rsh/. edaes  1 t To teotsold/ra                                                                                                       > Co~~~'C






48-4so                                                                      48'30
BRAZIL
MEDIUM  SIZE CITIES PROJECT                                                                               /
FLORIANOPOLIS
27'.-27-30'"
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g
4  | | ~~~~~~~~~POJC;                                                          EXSTIN                                             ' 
L I  NEW  INDUSTRIAL ZONE                        INDUSTRIAL ZONES
1l         TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT AREAS                COMMERCIAL ZONE & SERVICES                                         O     TH
URBANIZED LOTS                             PREDOMINANTLY POOR AREAS                                      A;  *RICA
F,WATER SUPPLY & SEPTIC TANKS                 BUILT UP AREAS                                                            AZLCa.mp,n
L~PROGRAM                                                                                                          B                     OAZI    G.de
*  FOOD DISTRIBUTION CENTER              -     ANACS   OAS&SRESBRASILIA
27432  _/_t -  gb  L -   r    1C,   C  E          X                   5      f   i   l r---STATE   BOUNDARIES                                                          2
LCMETERS         HEALTH POSTS                        --- - ~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 
KILOMETERS                 ~~~CHILD CARE CENTERS                                                                                                      J&oo, 
, SCHOOLS                                                                                        __
-  LAUNDRY ASSOCIATIONS                                                                                                                          ___ _
DRAINAGE                                                                                                                     Atf-- N .  0-,a, 
4.45             ,           DAIRY COOPERATIVE                                                            ZO &O






IBRD 13950
7,A                                ~~~~~~~~~~~BRAZ L/
MEDIUM  SIZE CITIES PROJECT                                                   R O.n: ,,  :e
NATAL                                             BR Z          apNo 
S     O L,T H
A/4 RE CA ,,
A f/antic
Oca&eaa
TAPORO ET    VMET    A
-9                                          F - ~~~~~~~~ WA~~TER SUW4~ &5SETI TANkS
. 1 dd 7  tRAI     EAR
[71]U8NZED L-OTS
!0   NW MKET
.-ArPASA  COOPERATIVE
1  FiSHINYG, COOPERATIVE
(          ~~~EXISTNG<
Z7ZINDLISTRLAL ZONES
COM MRCIAL ZONES & SERVICES
PREDI  NANTLY POOR AREAS
I NK if 4  >e rt BUILT Up AREAS                                                            S
MkiN ACCESS ROADS & STRE
/    }   \c     /       9                 +        (      ; .   ; E E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS 
ta7ji                         N   S           E               /             \           c z , V RIVERS
vz X x / \ 1 ; X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE BOUNARES
>X-  /   'g                                         \  0 tt:  9 g  --- E~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES
j < ;: ,,- , * { *2 ', X \ ; 7 O. 4~~~~~~~1   .2                                   3       4
KILOMETERS
-9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



