Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               FILE  COP*
Report No. 2361-BR
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 21, 1979
Urban Projects Department
Division 1 - LAC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1978)
US$1.0     =  19.95 Cruzeiros
US$0.5     =   1.0 Cruzeiros
US$50,125  =   I million Cruzeiros
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BB          Bank of Brazil
BNB         Bank of the Northeast
BND         National Bank for Economic Development
BNH         National Housing Bank
CDU         Urban Development Department (BNH)
CEAG        Management Assistance Center
CEASA       State Food Supply Companies
CEBRAE      Brazilian Center for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprises
CNPE        National Employment Policy Council
CNDU        National Urban Development Council
CNPU        National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urban Policy
COBAL       Brazilian Foodstuffs Company
COHAB       Low-Income Housing Company
CURA        Urban Rehabilitation Program of BNH
DNOS        National Department for Sanitation Works
EBTU        Brazilian Urban Transport Company
EMATER      Technical Assistance & Rural Extension Co.
EMBRATER    Brazilian Technical Assistance & Rural Extension Co.
FDTU        Urban Transport Development Fund
FMDU        Municipal Urban Development Fund
FNDU        National Urban Development Fund
FSA         Federal Sectoral Agencies
GEIPOT      Brazilian Transport Planning Agency
INOR        National Institute of Programming and Budget
IPPLAN      Institute of Research and Planning (Juiz de Fora)
IPUF        Urban Planning Institute for Florianopolis
IULCLG      Single Tax on Lubricants & Liquid & Gaseous Combustibles
MINTER      Ministry of Interior
MSC         Medium-Sized Cities
NAI         Nucleus for Assistance to Industries
PMU         Project Management Unit
II PND      Second National Development Plan
PROFILURB   Urbanized Lots Financing Program
SDU         Under-Secretariat of Urban Development (MINTER)
SEMPLA      Municipal Secretariat of Planning (Natal)
SENAC       National Service for Apprenticeship in Commerce
SENAI       National Service for Apprenticeship in Industry
SEPLAN      Ministry of Planning
SG/MINTER   General Secretariat of the Ministry of Interior
SINE        National Employment System
SNFDU       National System of Funds for Urban Development
SOF         Secretariat of Budget and Finances (MINTER)
SUDENE      Superintendent for Development of the Northeast
SUDEPE      Agency for Fisheries Development
TRU         Road Vehicle License Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND   .         .............................................     1
A.   The Urban Sector . ...................1............... 
B.   Urban Policy and Government Actions ................               2
C.   Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector ...............               4
D.   National Medium-Sized Cities Program ...............               4
II.   THE PROJECT ............................................                 9
A.   Main Features of the Project ........................             10
B.   Detailed Features ..................................              12
III.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN .......................               15
A.   Cost Estimates ............... .....         ..................   15
B.   Financing Plan and Flow of Funds ..             .................  16
C.   Financial Impact on Local Governments ..............              19
D.   Procurement ....... ..................                            20
E.   Accounts and Audits ...............................               21
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .... ..................                          21
A.    Institutional Arrangements .... o..o    ................         21
B.   Legal Arrangements ...............      ..     ..............     35
C.   Implementation Schedule .............     o .. ............       36
D.   Monitoring ... o           ....................................   36
V.   COST RECOVERY, AFFORDABILITY, AND REPLICABILITY .... .....              37
A.   Cost Recovery ...........  .        ...........................   38
B.   Affordability ....... o ... ..........      .................     38
C.   Replicability ......................................              39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Brazil in November/December 1978. The mission consisted of P. Watson (Chief
of Mission), C. Carr, F. Ford, M. Pulgar-Vidal, E. Haythorne, M. Fairless
(IBRD), and R. Westin, M. Oliverson, and N. Boyle (Consultants). Mr. P. Watson
had primary responsibility for the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ...................................   41
A.  Economic Justification ..........................    41
B.  Urban Poverty Impact .....   ..................... *....    43
C.  Risks   ........  ......................................  45
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......    ..................................    47
ANNEXES
1.  City-Specific Characteristics--Juiz de Fora, Florianopolis, Natal
2.  Appraisal of Campina Grande Subproject
3.  Tables and Charts
4.  Guidelines for Subproject Appraisal and Eligibility Criteria
5.  Covenants to be Included in Project Agreements
6.  Cost Recovery Mechanisms
7.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 14273    Cities Included in Medium-Sized Cities Project
IBRD 13948    Juiz de Fora
IBRD 13949    Florianopolis
IBRD 13950    Natal



I. BACKGROUND
A. The Urban Sector
1.01      Ur -nization Trends.  Brazil's urban growth in the last two decades
has been rapid: the urban population (as measured by an international standard
definition of 20,000 or more inhabitants) increased from 13 million in 1950
to 37.8 million in 1970. In the 1960-70 decade, the growth rate was 5.6% per
annum, compared to 2.9% for the rate of overall population growth in the
country. The urbanized proportion of the total population increased from
16% in 1940 (low by world and Latin American standards) to nearly 40% in
1970. The bulk of the urban population increase (72% of the 1960-70 increase)
occurred in cities of 250,000 or more persons. Geographically, urbanization
has been unevenly distributed. Growth rates have been highest in the central-
western region due principally to the growth of Belo Horizonte and Brasilia
and lowest in the northeast region, despite the rapid growth of this region's
three metropolitan areas: Fo-rtaleza, Recife and Salvador. The former domi-
nance of the southeast (mainly Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro) in urban popula-
tion has been somewhat offset by the growth of cities in the central-west and
in the south, but not enough to overcome the large imbalance between the
southeast and other regions and between the large and small cities. In terms
of city size, the highest growth rates were observed in cities with populations
between 100,000 and 200,000 (9.7%). Thus, there is an identifiable trend
towards higher growth rates in medium-sized cities.
1.02      Urban Poverty.  Poverty is prevalent in Brazilian cities.  The most
comprehensive data currently available are from the 1970 census, according to
which the percentage of families in poverty (according to the Bank guidelines
1/) ranged from 55% in southern cities (e.g., Curitiba) to 77% in Recife in
the northeast. The same pattern is also discernible outside the large metro-
politan regions, with the percentage of families in poverty ranging from 38%
in Florianoplis to 70% in Natal. It is clear, therefore, that poverty is
common in Brazil, even in the apparently prosperous southern cities. It is
more widespread and more intense in the cities of the northeast, and, within
that portion of the population that falls below the relative poverty threshold,
there are significant numbers in even more severe conditions of poverty.
Although the Bank does not estimate an "absolute poverty" (subsistence) income
level for Brazil, the degree of deprivation can be seen in the data on families
whose available income is so low that it would constitute poverty for an
individual. In the north-east, sixteen percent of families in Recife and 30%
in Natal fall into this category (compared with 4% in Curitiba and 5% in
Florianopolis in the south). Lack of employment, inadequate urban services,
squalid housing, malnutrition, and disease characterize the living conditions
of three-quarters of the population in cities like Recife and Natal. It is
both the intensity of these problems and their pervasiveness that distinguish
the northeastern cities from their southern counterparts.
1/   For a middle-income country like Brazil, the Bank uses the concept of
"relative poverty" to establish a poverty income level, calculated as
one-third of national per capita income (adjusted for urban-rural price
differences).



-2-
1.03      Shelter and Urban Services.  Access to shelter and urban services
is inadequate in most Brazilian cities. The situation in southern and
southeastern cities is better than in the rest of the country with notice-
able exceptions in the peripheral areas of t4e large metropolitan areas
where as much as half the population has substandard housing and no water
connection or sewerage. The north and northeast parts of Brazil are very
poorly served with the peripheries of the large cities being the worst off.
Around 70% of the population lack sewerage facilities; around 40% have no
access to safe water and some cities are much worse off. In medium-sized
cities, the picture is little better: in Juiz de Fora and Natal over 30%
of the population lacks access to safe water, and 60% have access to neither
a sewer system nor a septic tank. In the absence of paved roads in poor
areas, transport services are inadequate especially in the peripheral areas
of large cities. As much as 30% of the work force has to walk an average
of 5 km to work. For those who have access to public transport, journey-to-
work times average one hour and can rise much higher.
1.04      Employment.  Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo also dominate the regional
distribution of industrial employment. In 1970, roughly 53% of Brazil's urban
industrial jobs were located in the Rio/Sao Paulo axis compared to 14% in the
other metropolitan areas, 5% in the other large cities of between 250,000 and
1,000,000 inhabitants, and 28% in the remainder. The 1970 Rio/Sao Paulo per-
centage shares of salaries and value added were 62% and 63%, respectively.
Employment in the formal sector has failed to keep pace with the rapid growth
of the urban labor force. Data from employment studies in selected cities
show that, although open unemployment is low (3%-4%), between 25% and 50% of
the urban labor force is employed in the informal sector. While the informal
sector provides important opportunities for the potential entrepreneur, many
informal sector jobs are low paying and, being outside the urban tax base, do
not contribute significantly to the cities' ability to finance needed infra-
structure for fast growing populations.
B. Urban Policy and Government Actions
1.05      Formulation of an explicit urban policy began with the preparation
of the Second National Development Plan (II PND) for the period 1975 to 1979
and the policy is still in the process of being put into operation. The urban
development strategy formulated in the II PND is based on the central proposi-
tion that recent urbanization trends (i.e. the rapid metropolization of Rio de
Janeiro and Sao Paulo) have introduced serious distortions in urban structure
and spatial organization. These changes, it is argued, have both exacerbated
problems of poverty, underemployment, and severe infrastructural deficiencies
in Brazil's urban centers and created disparities between and within regions.
The II PND introduced two major complementary lines of policy in its overall
strategy to improve the structure and efficiency of the urban system. First,
the system of metropolitan areas should be consolidated and measures taken
to prevent further concentration of population and economic activity in the
South-East region, particularly in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Second,
medium-sized cities (MSC) in all regions should be promoted to reinforce an
incipient trend that became evident in the 1960's by strengthening the second
rank of the urban structure and supporting the development of the interior.
The innovative significance of the II PND is that it represents the first



-3-
deliberate attempt to formulate a national urbanization strategy and introduce
the requisite institutional framework and policy instruments for its implemen-
tation.
1.06      Institutions and Financing.  The first eight metropolitan regions
(Belem, Fortaleza, Recife, Salvador, Belo Horizonte, Sao Paulo, Curitiba, and
Porto Alegre) were created in 1973 and Rio de Janeiro was added in 1974. The
National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urban Policy (CNPU) was estab-
lished in 1974 as an interministerial agency with advisory and prescriptive
functions and responsibility for the coordination of national urban develop-
ment policy. In May 1975, CNPU created the system of Deliberative and Con-
sultative Councils in each metropolitan region. Further policy instruments
were added in October 1975 with the introduction of two special funds to
finance urban development projects: the National Urban Development Fund
(FNDU) and the Urban Transport Development Fund (FDTU). Financial resources
for the FDTU are derived mainly from revenues of the tax on oils and fuels
(IULCLG) and the Road Vehicle License Tax (TRU), and a high proportion (75%)
is earmarked for urban transport projects. The Brazilian Urban Transport
Corporation (EBTU) was later established to administer the FDTU. The FNDU
and FDTU, together with resources devoted to financing urban development by
other federal institutions and programs, such as the BNH, BNB, BNDE, FINEP
and the Social Development Fund (FAS), form the National System of Funds for
Urban Development (SNFDU). Following the March 1979 change in Government, the
operations of CNPU were terminated and the Government created the National
Council on Urban Development (CNDU), chaired by the Minister of the Interior,
and including the Secretary General of SEPLAN, the ministries of Finance,
Transport, Industry, Commerce, and Interior, the Presidents of BNH and EBTU,
and three others named by the President of the Republic. CNDU has taken over
all the responsibilities of CNPU. In addition, it has been given the respons-
ibility of proposing annual and multi-annual urban development investment
programs, together with the annual program for all state funds destined for
urban development. The Executive Secretariat of CNDU is located under the
control of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior (SG/MINTER),
specifically in the Under-Secretariat of Urban Development (SDU). The Under-
Secretary of Urban Development is the Executive Secretary of CNDU. (See Chart
No. 1). SDU has responsibility for the day-to-day operations of CNDU.
1.07      Programs.  Operationally, the Brazilian Government is attempting
to achieve its urban development goals through a variety of programs. Some
of the more important are the Metropolitan Regions Program and the Medium-
Sized Cities Program (run by SDU), the Popular Housing Program, the Water
and Sewerage Program, the Urban Rehabilitation Program (run by BNH), and
the Urban Transport Program (run by EBTU). In addition, there are programs
to promote employment and income growth run by SINE, CEBRAE, and public
and private banks. The above programs operate under several ministries--
Planning, Interior, Transport, and Labor.
1.08      Operating the above programs in a coordinated manner has been diffi-
cult. The programs of different agencies overlap at times. The establish-
ment of investment priorities for specific areas is fragmented. The level
of technical analysis of projects differs greatly among and within agencies.
There are differences in both the capacity and interest of agencies in har-
nessing existing local expertise or helping to develop it. In general, pro-



-4-
grams have had limited success in focusing on the problems of the urban
poverty group. Because it had no statutory power to enforce its decisions,
CNPU experienced difficulties in carrying out its assigned coordination role.
It was most effective in the operation of the Medium-Sized Cities Program,
where the necessity to bring together funds and expertise from different
agencies led to a much increased level of coordination and cooperation among
agencies. Further, the creation of CNDU has done much to resolve the weaknesses
of CNPU by creating an organization with the institutional and financial
powers to coordinate urban development programs.
C. Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
1.09      Bank involvement in the urban sector is in its early stages and
is based on the premise that the Government's present policies in the sector
are basically sound. However, attempts to change the distribution of popula-
tion need to be complemented by technically sound programs that reach more
directly the problems of the urban poor--the lack of basic urban infrastruc-
ture and services and the lack of employment opportunities. Given the scale
of the urban problems in the largest country in Latin America and the scarcity
of funds available for investment, the Bank has chosen to concentrate its
efforts in key sectors and channel its resources through intermediaries
at the federal level. Thus, the Bank is working with federal institutions
to introduce improved methods of analysis and an increased focus on urban
poverty and better coordination between agencies. To reinforce these insti-
tution building objectives, Bank urban projects in Brazil attempt to transfer
as much as possible of the project preparation, appraisal, and supervision
responsibility to the federal agency responsible for the project and to
encourage the federal agencies, where appropriate, to transfer this responsi-
bility to the local agencies in an attempt to promote their institutional
and technical development. Since the federal institutions and their poverty-
oriented programs are, in general, quite recent and their policies and stra-
tegies are in the formative stage, the Bank's strategy involves higher risks
than might be encountered in more traditional programs.
1.10      Up to now, the Bank has participated in the financing of water
supply and sewerage projects in the states of Minas Gerais, Pernambuco, Bahia,
Ceara, and in Greater Sao Paulo. The first Urban Transport Project was
approved in June 1978 and is already under execution. A Sites and Services
and Low-Cost Housing Project was approved by the Executive Directors in
January, 1979. Additional projects in the areas of integrated urban develop-
ment, sites and services, transport, water supply and sewerage, and suburban
railways are programmed for the 1980-83 period. The proposed Medium-Sized
Cities Project will complement the existing transport and sites and services
projects in metropolitan regions by extending the Bank's range of operations
into the promotion of the growth of economic activity, physical infrastructure,
and urban services in strategic secondary cities.
D. National Medium-Sized Cities Program
1.11      Goals and Objectives.  The National Medium-Sized Cities (MSC)
Program complements the Government's urban policy efforts in metropolitan
areas by promoting infrastructure provision, income and employment creation,



-5-
and social services in the second level of Brazil's urban structure--the
approximately 200 cities with between 50,000 and 500,000 inhabitants. 1/
In 1970, such cities comprised about 21% of the urban population in Brazil,
a total of 8 million people. The program provides financing for projects
proposed by the cities in three basic categories: (a) urban infrastructure
and services (e.g., water supply sanitation, housing, transport, community
facilities, trash collection), (b) employment and income creation (e.g.,
industrial parks, technical and managerial assistance, manpower training),
and (c) municipal finances and administration (e.g., cadastral surveys,
information systems, equipment, institutional diagnoses, training, etc.).
In order to permit projects to be developed, the program has also financed
planning and feasibility studies. Through positive interventions in the
economic and social systems of secondary cities, the program aims to avoid
or reduce the high social costs of rapid unplanned urbanization that have
been encountered in metropolitan regions. At a more global level, it is
hoped that the program will contribute to the reorientation of migratory
flows away from the major metropolitan regions. It would be unrealistic,
however, to place too great an emphasis on the migration diversion impact of
the MSC program. Moreover, the high-growth tendency of medium-sized cities
can be seen in the 1960-70 census data. At present growth rates, many will
have populations of around a million in 20 years. Thus, the program is
strengthening an existing trend and providing necessary infrastructure and
employment before the situation gets out of hand. The Program also redis-
tributes resources in favor of smaller cities and their poorer inhabitants.
At the local level, the program will have a direct, positive impact on urban
poverty, through the expansion of infrastructure, services, and employment
available to low-income groups. Finally, the Program has an important impact
on the financial, technical, and administrative capacities of the selected
cities. At the financial level, federal resources for the MSC program are
passed to the cities as grants. However, the cities are obliged to recover
the costs of project investments from the final beneficiaries, thus ensuring
a flow of funds is available at the local level to replicate the intial
investment program. At the technical/administrative level, the executing
agency has worked closely with municipal and state agencies both to develop
local technical capacity to prepare and execute projects and to identify and
correct deficiencies and bottlenecks in local administrations.
1.12      Executing Agency--SDU.  The executive secretariat of CNPU,
with a staff of 52 professionals, has been transferred to the Ministry of
Interior's Under-Secretariat of Urban Development. The main functions of
CNPU were (a) to propose guidelines for national urban policy and to formulate
an overall strategy, as well as the specific regulations and operational
instruments required for policy implementation; (b) to coordinate public
investment programs and policies in urban areas; (c) to oversee the planning
system for metropolitan regions; and (d) to develop and implement the Medium-
Sized Cities Program. CNDU will take over these responsibilities, together
with more extensive budgetting responsibilities. During its short existence,
CNPU had begun to make its mark on official policies and actions. Through its
1/   Certain larger cities, like Victoria, are included in the MSC program,
even though they do not fall within this definition.



-6-
role of overseeing metropolitan region planning and investment programs, CNPU
had some success in adjusting sectoral investment plans to reflect more
closely urban planning and regional objectives. Its most important work along
these lines has been carried out through the Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes
Urbanos (EBTU). It had less success in influencing the policies of the other
major investor in urban programs, the Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNH).
CNPU's most important work in coordinating and integrating urban investments
was through the Medium-Sized Cities Program. Because it controlled the key
federal investment funds for this program, CNPU was able to stress both
the need for coordinating investments in different types of urban projects
(e.g., to avoid septic tank programs without water supply) and the need
to develop a balanced package of sub-projects conceived within the context
of an urban development strategy. Similarly, because it was not restricted by
sectoral responsibilities, CNPU was able to develop a broader focus on
urban development, stressing economic and administrative development as well
as infrastructure and service provision. The transformation of CNPU to CNDU
should strengthen its policy-making and executive capability, and the proposed
project will provide an opportunity to support this impetus.
1.13      Resources and Operations.  The MSC program is funded out of the
FNDU. The FNDU has five sub-accounts (Urban Transport, Sanitatioh, Social
Centers, Industrial Estates, and Other Projects). The Urban Transport Develop-
ment Fund (FDTU) is the largest account, representing some 75% of FNDU re-
sources. While there is some flexibility of transfer of resources between
other accounts, FDTU resources coming from gasoline and lubricant sales and
automobile vehicle license taxes are earmarked for urban transport projects
and their allocation is controlled jointly with EBTU. The other FNDU
resources come from the central budget. Total resources for 1976-79 period
are estimated at Cr$15.5 billion (approximately US$780 million). 1/
1.14      Operations of the program began in 1976.  About Cr$5 billion (US$265
million) or 30% of FNDU resources were allocated to MSC for the 1976-79
period. In addition, public financial institutions such as BNH, BNDE, and
regional development banks were encouraged to give priority to the cities
included in the program. Since 1976, Cr$12.5 billion have gone into the MSC
program. Cr$3.5 billion (28%) came from FNDU, Cr$3.5 billion from munici-
palities, Cr$3.4 billion from states and Cr$2.00 billion from other federal
financing sources. Forty-six percent of these resources were used to finance
transport projects, thirty two percent for social infrastructure, including
housing, and fourteen percent for sanitation. Geographically, fifty-five
percent of CNPU/FNDU resources went to cities in the northeast or north
regions; by contrast only 10% went to the states of Sao Paulo, Parana, and
Rio Grande do Sul. The remainder went to poor southern and southeastern
cities like Florianopolis and Vitoria, and to the states of Mato Grosso do
Sul and Minas Gerais. Three staff members have in the past handled the
operations of this program. Monitoring of this program was done by the
Administrative and Financial Services unit in CNPU. The fact that the pro-
gram was operated by such a small team is a reflection of the very limited
technical work carried out in the past. Over the next three years, it is
1/   Except as otherwise noted, conversions are at the November 15, 1978,
rate of US$1.00=Cr$19.95.



-7-
anticipated that Cr$7.3 billion or 38% of total FNDU resources (in constant
cruzeiros) for the period will be allocated to the MSC program. This includes
Cr$1.42 billion which will constitute the federal government's contribution to
the proposed Bank supported MSC project.
1.15      Performance.  Several factors caused the initial operation of the
program to fall short of its objectives. Resources were spread over too
many cities and, although the program was meant to promote coordinated
urban planning, relationships among the concerned agencies were not clearly
established. Evaluations of proposed projects lacked both the context of
individual city development strategies and the appropriate levels of tech-
nical analysis. No system existed for focussing projects on the urban poverty
target group, nor was there the the expertise to develop a meaningful program
of job and income creation projects. Considerable progress has been made on
solving these problems. At a general level, CNPU recognized the contradic-
tions inherent in trying to develop a program of secondary growth centers
comprising a large number of cities and has begun to concentrate both efforts
and resources on a smaller number of cities that represent the highest potential
for developing alternative growth centers. In more specific terms, the Govern-
ment requested the Bank to finance a slice of the National Medium-sized
Cities Project and is using this project as a vehicle for developing the staff
capacity and the technical and managerial systems required for the efficient
and effective operation of the overall MSC program. CNPU, the FSA's, the
local agencies, and Bank staff have developed a system for analyzing, select-
ing, and executing projects. The key feature of this system is that agencies
at different levels with comparative advantages in specific activities have
been assigned the responsibilities for these tasks. The operational procedures
were worked out by CNPU, the FSA's, local agencies, and Bank staff during
project preparation and will be used by SDU during project execution.
1.16      Overview of the System.  The system basically consists of a series
of tasks that have to be carried out as a proposed investment moves from the
planning stage to execution. These tasks are set out below, together with a
description of the type of agency that will be responsible for carrying them
out during project execution. Three types of agency are involved in project
preparation, evaluation, and execution: local (municipal and/or state)
agencies that are responsible for developing sub-projects (i.e., packages
of sub-project components) that are appropriate for a given city; federal
sectoral agencies that are responsible for technical analysis and the super-
vision of the execution of the relevant components; and SDU that is responsible
for programming federal resources, ensuring the adequacy of plans and analysis,
and coordinating project execution. 1/
1.17      Task 1:  Sub-Project Conception and Development.  The responsibility
for proposing and justifying sub-projects lies with municipal and/or state
authorities, which will develop a package of sub-project components for a given
city with the assistance of municipal and/or state planning agencies and local
executing agencies, such as Secretaries of Public Works or State Water com-
panies. The basis for each sub-project is a city profile, prepared at the
1/   For details of the steps that the agencies are taking to ensure that
their tasks will be carried out efficiently, see Chapter 4.



-8 -
local level. This profile sets out a description of the city, including
population, employment, access to urban services, poverty, and service deficits
and presents a quantitative and spatial explanation of the problems each city
faces. The profile also includes a statement of the city's approach to urban
development, setting out the authorities' view of the relative seriousness of
different problems and establishing priorities and targets for the solution of
problems. The profile ends with project profiles--brief descriptions of
each sub-project component proposed, cost estimates, etc--and an explanation
of how they will contribute to a solution of the city's problems. 1/ Any
component may be proposed that falls within the program's broadly defined
categories of urban infrastructure and services, employment and income crea-
tion, and administrative and financial improvements. This system allows
cities to propose solutions to specific local problems in the light of local
priorities, while at the same time providing a framework of consistent in-
formation within which the proposals can be reviewed.
1.18      Task 2:  Review for Consistency.  SDU is responsible for reviewing
each proposed sub-project to ensure it is consistent with the program categor-
ies, the city's urban development strategy, and with other federal programs.
In addition, SDU reviews the package to ensure that there are no conflicts
between components.
1.19      Task 3:  Feasibility Studies.  Following the consistency review,
SDU agrees a tentative package of compcnents with each city, which then
carries out feasibility studies according to guidelines and eligibility
criteria provided by SDU (see Annex 4). SDU may also provide financial
assistance and the federal sectoral agencies will, if requested, provide
technical assistance on terms of reference, design, technology, etc.
1.20      Task 4:  Appraisal.  All proposed components are technically and
economically appraised by the federal sectoral agencies, each covering its
own area of responsibility and expertise. Other aspects of the appraisal--
background work, institutional, and financial aspects--are carried out by
SDU, which then prepares an overall appraisal report supported by project
review forms prepared by the FSA's for each component.
1.21      Task 5:  Bank Review.  SDU presents the appraisal report to the Bank
for review and approval. Any requests for clarification, additional inform-
ation, or modifications will be communicated by the Bank to SDU, which will
liaise with the appropriate federal or local agencies. No component can be
accepted under the project without Bank approval.
1.22      Task 6:  Project Execution.  Local authorities will execute the
sub-project through a variety of municipal and/or state agencies. (For an
example of the agencies involved, see para. 4.36).
1.23      Coordination of Project Execution.  A Project Management Unit
(PMU) will be created in each city to coordinate works being carried out by
different agencies. The PMU will maintain critical path charts on all com-
ponents and will verify progress, identify bottlenecks, and take appropriate
1/   For examples illustrating the outputs of this process, see Annex 1.



-9-
action to ensure that the sub-project is executed in an integrated manner.
Because it authorizes payments for project execution, the PMU has the power to
execute its role effectively.
1.24      Final Designs and Contracting.  Once the Bank has approved a sub-
project, SDU authorizes the local authorities to finalize engineering designs
and to begin contracting. 1/ The responsible local agency will submit designs
and contractual documents through the local project management unit to the
relevant federal sectoral agency. The FSA will approve designs and certify
that procurement has been carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Following this step, the project management unit will authorize the agency to
sign contracts and begin works.
1.25      Supervision.  Contractors will carry out civil works under the
direct supervision of the appropriate local agency. The local agency will
validate contractors' bills and transmit them to the project management unit,
which will authorize payments. The relevant federal sectoral agency will
provide periodic supervision to verify that the works are being carried out
adequately and that funds are being disbursed correctly. The FSA will then
certify to SDU quarterly that funds have been used correctly and that the next
quarter's funds should be released.
1.26      Task 7:  Reporting, Monitoring, and Evaluation.  Agencies at each
level will have responsibilities for this task. The local executing agencies
will report to the PMU on a continuous basis through direct contact with the
PMU. In addition, they will provide monthly reports on the implementation and
financial status of the sub-project. The PMU will transmit these reports to
the appropriate FSA. The PMU and each FSA will prepare consolidated quarterly
reports for submission to SDU, which will in turn provide quarterly reports to
the Bank. The responsibilities for monitoring and evaluation are similar,
with the PMU responsible for the city, the FSA's for their sectoral areas, and
SDU for the program as a whole.
1.27      Special Responsibilities.  In addition to the responsibilities
described above, BNH and EBTU will have a financial management and control
role. They will be responsible for passing federal project funds to the
local implementing agencies through a state commercial Bank. BNH will also
lend to the cities funds to be used as part of the local counterpart funds
for the project. (For details, see para 3.06.)
II. THE PROJECT
2.01      Project Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed project are (a)
to finance the development of urban infrastructure, the creation of employment
1/   For a description of the associated flow of funds, see paras 3.04 to
3.08.



- 10 -
and income, and managerial and financial improvements in municipal administra-
tions and (b) through the planning and execution of the project, to strengthen
the technical, managerial, and coordination capacities of planning and execut-
ing agencies at both the local and the national levels. These objectives will
be achieved through the use of the system described above. In this way, the
tasks associated with project development and execution are clearly estab-
lished and the responsibilities for them assigned.
A. Main Features of the Project
2.02      The project will provide financing for sub-projects in eight
cities--Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora, Natal, Campina Grande, Vitoria, Pelotas,
Montes Claros, and Petrolina/Juazeiro (see Map 14273). The eight include two
southern cities, two central cities, and four northeastern cities. These
cities are a first slice selected from the cities on which the National MSC
Program will concentrate and constitute the minimum number of cities necessary
to ensure (a) a meaningful involvement on the part of the Bank and (b) the
participation of federal sectoral agencies such as BNH. The cities were
selected on relatively pragmatic grounds. Each state planning agency examined
the cities in its state that could be considered candidates for inclusion in
the program and proposed to CNPU those cities that (a) had a potential for
growth, (b) exercised a significant influence on their hinterlands, (c) had a
history of coping with population growth and/or promoting economic growth, (d)
had the administrative capacity to prepare and execute projects, and (e)
expressed a local political commitment to the program. CNPU selected the
eight cities that were most advanced in project preparation to participate in
the Bank MSC Project.
2.03      Appraisal Approach.  The approach adopted for project appraisal
reflects the strong institution-building emphasis of this project. Bank staff
have appraised the sub-projects in Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora, and Natal.
SDU has the responsibility for appraising the remaining five cities. One of
them--Campina Grande--has already been appraised and the appraisal report was
presented to the Bank at negotiations (see 4.05 and Annex 2). The remainder
will be appraised by July 31, 1980. Staff from CNPU (now SDU) and the federal
sectoral agencies participated in the Bank appraisal and carried out the
appraisal for Campina Grande. On the basis of this experience, guidelines for
appraisal and eligibility criteria for acceptance of projects proposed for
financing under the project were developed. These guidelines and criteria
will be included in supplemental letters to the loan agreement and used in the
appraisals of the remaining cities. They are presented in Annex 4 to this
report. By using this approach, the project will have maximum institution-
building impact, with opportunities to monitor procedures.
2.04      General Characteristics of the Cities Appraised by the Bank. 1/  The
cities selected are very different. They range from the administrative center
1/   In addition to this overview, more details are presented in Annex 1.



- 11 -
of Florianopolis through the old industrial town of Juiz de Fora to the poor
northeastern capital of Natal. They all suffer from a historical lack of
investment in urban infrastructure, but the nature and degree of the resultant
problems vary depending on the history and cultural traditions of the city.
Economically, they vary greatly: Florianopolis has virtually no industrial
base; Juiz de Fora has an industrial tradition that it is trying to resur-
rect. There are also a number of similarities. In terms of urban infra-
structure the degree of deprivation found in the favelas of the metropolitan
regions is generally found only in pockets and the cities are anxious to
avoid their proliferation. Poverty does exist, however, frequently with a
high incidence of the so-called working poor: those who, even when employed,
fall within the urban poverty group. Provision of urban services is gen-
erally deficient, especially in water supply and sewerage. The cities also
share deficits in sectors for which federal funds have not generally been
available, such as drainage and trash collection and disposal. In general,
the cities lack a strong economic base and have relatively weak industrial
sectors. As a result, a high proportion of employment is concentrated in the
service sector, much of it informal. Most of these cities are already trying
to develop their industrial sectors. An outstanding common characteristic is
the dynamic manner in which both people and planners pursue their activities.
Overall, it is the harnessing of this characteristic that provides expecta-
tions that the other problems can be resolved.
2.05      The components to be financed in each city are grouped into three
main categories:
(a) Income and Employment Creation Components;
(b) Urban and Community Infrastructure Components; and
(c) Municipal Administration Components.
2.06      Income and Employment Creation Components.  The objectives of
this category are to increase productivity and employment and to improve
product distribution systems for local economic activities. General design
principles followed are that components should (a) where possible, benefit the
urban poor either through the employment of poor people or by improving
distribution systems for products, such as food, consumed by poor people and
(b) include mechanisms to recover costs. In practice, this has led to an
emphasis on components that assist small and micro-enterprises. During
project execution, a dialogue will be maintained with local planning agencies
to encourage them to take a broader view of employment creation in future
planning exercises. A significant part of the income and employment created
in cooperative projects will be for women.
2.07      Urban and Community Infrastructure Components.  The objectives
of these components are to improve urban physical infrastructure primarily
in poor areas. The municipal agencies identified poor neighborhoods during
project preparation (defined as areas where 70% of families earn less than
three minimum salaries), and these areas became the primary focus for upgrad-
ing components. Project components include drainage, water supply, public



- 12 -
transport, sewerage and septic systems, community facilities, and trash
collection. During project preparation, every effort was made to identify the
simplest, lowest-cost technologies for each type of compnent in order to
reduce costs to the final beneficiaries and maximize the efficiency of the
investment.
2.08      Municipal Administration Components.  These components are aimed
at improving municipal administration and finances. In each city, they
include a project management unit with the primary function of managing the
execution of the MSC project, with spinoffs into the rest of the municipal
administration. The other components are designed to meet specific bottle-
necks and problems identified in the municipal administrations of the project
cities.
B. Detailed Features (for Cities Appraised by Bank Staff)
2.09      Below are described the types of components included in the three
cities appraised by Bank staff. Table 2.1 shows which components are included
in each city.
Table 2.1: Example of Components Included in Cities Appraised by Bank Staff
Code-1/    Category                         Florianopolis   Juiz de Flora   Natal
A10  Food Distribution System                     *                *           *
A20  Industrial Infrastructure                    *                *
A30  T.A. to Small Firms                          *                            *
A40  T.A. and Equipment for Cooperatives          *                            *
A50  Man-Power Training                                            *
B10  Water Supply and Sewerage                    *                *           *
B20  Septic Systems                               *                            *
B30  Drainage                                     *                *           *
B40  Transport                                    *                *           *
B50  Trash Collection/Disposal                    *                *           *
B60  Sites and Services                           *                *           *
B70  Community Facilities                         *                *           *
B80  Other                                        *
CIO  Project Management Unit                      *                *           *
C20  Administrative Improvements                  *                            *
C30  Cadastral Surveys                            *                *
C40  Special Studies                              *
1/   The same reference code numbers are used to identify project components
throughout the report. The A series comprises employment and income
creation components; the B series infrastructure components, and the C
series municipal administration components.



- 13 -
2.10      Food Distribution Systems (A10).  The COBAL Voluntary Chain agency
will assist small retail grocers in poor areas by providing a central service
warehouse. This will enable grocers to benefit from bulk purchasing, storage,
and distribution of grocery products, resulting in lower unit costs. Tech-
nical assistance will be provided by COBAL supervisors in merchandising,
better methods of stock purchasing and inventory controls, and modern tech-
niques in store layout, advertising, and sales promotion. The construction,
storage, and rental of stalls to merchants for use in open-air markets may
also be included.
2.11      Industrial Infrastructure (A20).  Industrial parks may be provided
or existing industrial parks may be extended. Parks will be oriented toward
small- and medium-size industries. Service centers that will supply raw
materials, promote products, aid in accounting and financial management, and
provide technical and managerial assistance and training and may also be
included.
2.12      Technical Assistance to Small Firms (A30).  Components include
additional technical assistance agents, materials, and equipment required to
provide basic managerial training and technical assistance to firms employing
10 workers or less.
2.13      Technical Assistance and Equipment for Cooperatives (A40).  These
components will assist specific cooperatives in setting up and expanding their
operations. Examples are:
(a)  expansion of an existing fishing cooperative by provision
of buildings and refrigeration equipment to establish a
regional collection system, technical assistance to small
fishermen to increase production, and promotion of conver-
sion from gasoline to diesel engine motorboats to reduce
operating costs;
(b)  expansion of an existing dairy cooperative by providing a
building for processing milk and cheese, technical assis-
tance in animal husbandry to 2,000 small dairy producers,
and technical and managerial assistance to the cooperative
in setting up and operating their facilities;
(c)  creation of a laundry workers' association and construction
of two laundry facilities to provide central facilities for
washing clothes for 200 washerwomen. Central purchasing of
laundry products, laundry machines, and social assistance
will be provided; and
(d)  amalgamation and expansion of two existing artisan coopera-
tives by providing a central facility for raw material sup-
ply and finished product storage, shipping, and a combined
administration facility. Also included are small buildings
for storing raw materials, finished products, and equipment



- 14 -
in the three principal production centers, the provision of
technical assistance and training to existing and potential
cooperative members, marketing assistance, and new product
development for national and international markets.
2.14      Manpower Training (A50).  Training centers will provide facilities
for basic skills training for adults now working at unskilled jobs. Such
training is already offered by the Municipal Secretary of Education, but is
hampered by lack of equipment, workshops, and space. No duplication exists
with other adult education programs as this project is addressed to providing
basic skills and not training craftsmen.
2.15      Water Supply and Sewerage (B10).  Components to extend water dis-
tribution networks into poor neighborhoods are included. No expansion of raw
water supplies is included except in isolated poor areas where it is more
efficient to capture existing springs than to extend the main water trunk
lines. Small sewer networks may be included for areas that cannot be served
by septic systems because of soil or topographical conditions.
2.16      Septic Systems (B20).  Programs for the provision of septic systems
in poor areas are included. Self-help construction options and alternative
design standards are made available in order to lower costs.
2.17      Drainage (B30).  Drainage programs are included for flood and
erosion control. Priority in selection was given to poor areas and every
effort was made to achieve project objectives using least-cost design stand-
ards. Physical works include stream realignment, channelization, stormwater
collection systems, and erosion control measures. Drainage studies, to avoid
future problems in new development areas, may be included.
2.18      Transport (B40).  Low-cost transport invesments to improve public
transportation are included. Physical works include improvements to bus
corridors, exclusive bus lanes, signalization, bus shelters, and paving of
feeder bus roads in low-income areas. No new road construction is included.
2.19      Trash Collection (B50).  Components are included to upgrade municipal
trash collection services and extend them into unserved areas, most of which
are poor. Included in all projects are purchase of collection equipment and
construction of a sanitary landfill. Provision has been made for manual trash
collection in areas where roads cannot support mechanical pickup equipment.
2.20      Sites and Services (B60).  Sites and services components are included
to provide urbanized lots for families earning up to three minimum salaries.
2.21      Community Facilities (B70).  These components provide social assis-
tance and basic community services in poor areas. Subprojects include small
health care centers, centers providing basic nutrition and child care, nur-
series to assist poor working mothers, primary schools, and an industrial
canteen in Florianopolis to provide cheap meals to low-income workers.
2.22      Other Upgrading (B80).  These components comprise special upgrading
measures such as stairways and hillside containment, and programs to assist
squatters in obtaining lease rights to land owned by the municipality.



- 15 -
2.23      Project Management Units (C10).  These units will administer sub-
projects at the city level by reviewing designs, preparing bidding documents
and contracts, supervising project implementation, and coordinating intra-
agency operations. Another objective of these components is to strengthen the
municipal planning agencies for future projects.
2.24      Administrative Improvements (C20).  Funds are provided for technical
assistance and training of municipal staff and support equipment (such as a
microfilm system) to improve document control and tax collection.
2.25      Cadastral Surveys (C30) (US$0.91 million).  Accurate cadastral in-
formation is necessary for efficient and equitable operation of the property
tax systems. Existing cadastres will be extended to cover additional proper-
ties and a computerized data management system will be implemented to combine
tax information and planning files. Aerial photographic surveys are included
to update the cadastral file.
2.26      Design Standards.  Design standards have emphasized low-cost solu-
tions and in most cases several alternatives were examined before the final
design solution was adopted. For example, in the case of water supply, PVC
pipes were found to offer the least-cost solution for the supply network.
In Florianopolis, special legislation will be enacted to lower the standards
for sites and services projects to allow minimal off-lot infrastructure stan-
dards. Where feasible, stones set in concrete were used for drainage works
instead of concrete. Low-cost simple compacting and cobble-stone paving was
used instead of more expensive techniques. Considerable efforts were made
to adopt design solutions which exploit locally produced materials and local
skills. Overall, these efforts have resulted in levels of service that are
appropriate to the population being served and design standards that offer
significant economies in construction and maintenance costs.
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      The total estimated cost of the project (including contingencies)
is estimated to be US$200 million (November 1978 prices), of which US$48.0
million (24%) would be foreign exchange. 1/ Land acquisition costs amount
to US$14 million (7% of total project costs including contingencies).
Project cost estimates are based on a detailed Bank appraisal of three cities
and targets for the remaining cities. Thus, ceilings on total project costs
1/   The basis for the estimate of the foreign exchange component (most, and
probably all, of which will be indirect) is presented in Table 3, Annex 3.



- 16 -
and the loan amount have been fixed. The final allocation between the
remaining cities will be determined on the basis of SDU's appraisals.
Project cost estimates are presented in Table 3.1; 3.1(a) shows the summary of
project costs and 3.1(b) shows for illustrative purposes the cost break-down
by component for the cities appraised by the Bank. Additional details on
different cost items (land, construction, etc.) are provided in Table 1,
Annex 3.
3.02      Cost estimates for the cities appraised by the Bank are based on
final engineering designs or preliminary designs (see Table 2, Annex 3).
In most cases, final designs are available for those components that will
be executed in the first nine months of project implementation. Physical
contingencies of 5-20% have been allowed, depending on the status of design
work.
3.03      Since the Brazilian practice has been to devalue the cruzeiro
relative to the dollar at a rate approximately equivalent to the difference
between domestically generated inflation and dollar inflation, price con-
tingencies of 7% per annum were calculated on the dollar cost estimates.
B. Financing Plan and Flow of Funds
3.04      Financing Plan.  In view of the high urban poverty orientation of
the project, a Bank contribution of 35% of total project costs is proposed.
This would represent a total loan amount of US$70 million. 1/  The federal
government would match the Bank contribution with funds from the FNDU.
The remaining 30% of project costs would be met by local authorities (states
and municipalities) from local resources and loans from BNH (para 3.06).
Table 3.2: Financing Plan (US$ million)
Other
Florianopolis  Juiz de Fora  Natal  Cities   Total
IBRD (35%)                         8.8             7.9        6.8    46.4    70.0
FNDU (35%)                         8.8             7.9        6.8    46.4    70.0
States/Municipalities
(including BNH) (30%)             7.5             6.9        5.9    39.9    60.0
Total                        25.1            22.7       19.5   132.7   200.0
1/   As the foreign exchange component is estimated to be US$48 million, this
would cover US$22 million of project costs in local currency.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs
3.1(a): Distribution by City
Cr$ m                         US$ m
Base     Phys.  Price            Base  Phys. Price
Costs    Cont.  Cont.  Total  Costs  Cont. Cont.  Total
Florianopolis           415.3      25.8   60.5   501.6  20.8  1.3    3.0   25.1
Juiz de Fora             380.0     24.0   48.5   452.5  19.1  1.2    2.4   22.7
Natal                    327.9     24.9   37.0   389.8  16.4  1.2    1.9   19.5
Unallocated /a         1,993.1    198.8  454.2 2,646.1  99.9 10.0   22.8  132.7
Total            3,116.2    273.5  600.3 3,990.0 156.2 13.7   30.1  200.0
/a   Campina Grande, Vitoria, Pelotas, Montes Claros, and Petrolina/Juazeiro.
3.1(b)    Distribution by Project (for Cities Appraised by Bank Staff)
Code              Category                    Florianopolis        Juiz de Fora         Natal
Cr$000   US$000   Cr$000  US$000   Cr$000  US$000
A10  Food Distribution System                19350       970    23402    1173    22773    1142
A20  Industrial Infrastructure               25555      1281    41374    2074        -        -
A30  T.A. To Small Firms                      7594       381       -       -        6743      338
A40  T.A. and Equipment for Cooperatives  34665         1738       -       -       83836    4202
A50  Man-Power Training                        -          -      11200      561      -        -
BlO  Water Supply & Sewerage                 50319      2522    76746    3847    73720    3695
B20  Septic Systems                          17329       869       -       -        5000      251
B30  Drainage                                67000      3358    56772    2846    25294    1268
B40  Transport                               38042      1906    60818    3049    42617    2136
B50  Garbage Collection/Disposal             16000       802    25560    1281    18180        911
B60  Sites and Services                      31467      1577    23936    1200       2295      115
B70  Community Facilities                    54494      2732    30600    1534       1402       70
B80  Other                                    3900       195       -       -        6082      305
CIO  Project Management Unit                 26735      1340    24000    1203    29156    1461
C20  Administrative Improvements              6000       301       -       -       10800      541
C30  Cadastral Surveys                       10000       501      5610     281       -        -
C40  Special Studies                          6800       341       -       -         -        -
Sub-total                     415250    20815   380018   19049   327897   16436
Physical Contingencies         25788      1293    23969    1201    24887    1248
Price Contingencies            60537      3034    48517    2432    37052    1857
Total                         501575    25142   452505   22682   389836   19541



- 18 -
3.05      Of the federal funds that come from FNDU, the majority will come
from the sub-account used for financing the National MSC Program. Funds
that will be used for transport projects will come from FDTU (the FNDU sub-
account earmarked for transport projects). These funds will be controlled
jointly by SDU and EBTU and their financial management will be the respons-
ibility of EBTU.
3.06      A portion of the local counterpart funds will be borrowed by the
cities from BNH under a special line of credit. Borrowing from BNH will
amount to 20-35% of the estimated cost of infrastructure projects (including
most civil works such as drainage, water supply, housing, community facili-
ties, industrial parks, etc., but excluding any associated equipment).
The minimum borrowing of 20% is required to ensure BNH's participation.
This would give a breakdown for infrastructure projects of FNDU 35%, BNH loan
20%, local resources 10%, Bank 35%. A city may choose, however, to borrow up
to 35% of infrastructure costs from BNH. Since each city has to provide
30% of total project costs including proceeds of BNH loans, this would have
the effect of allowing Bank/FNDU funds to be used to reduce each city's
contribution to non-infrastructure projects.
3.07      Flow of Funds.  The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the
Borrower with SG/MINTER, through SDU, acting as its agent. The central
element in the scheme established for the flow of funds 1/ is a special system
of project accounts in state-level commercial banks. The terms, conditions,
and operations of those accounts would be satisfactory to the Bank. Funds
enter the system in five ways, depending on the type of project component and
the source of the funds:
(a)  funds for transport projects will be transferred
from FDTU by EBTU (with the co-authorization of SDU);
(b)  funds for infrastructure will be transferred from
FNDU by SDU through BNH (which will act as SDU's
financial agent);
(c)  funds for other projects and all equipment will be
transferred from FNDU by SDU;
(d)  local counterpart funds from state and municipal
sources will be deposited directly by the states
and municipalities; and
(e)  local counterpart funds borrowed from BNH will be
made available directly by BNH.
3.08      Funds for specific sub-project components would be passed by the
municipalities and/or states to the agency responsible for actual project
execution in two forms: grants and loans. Funds for projects to be carried
out by municipal or state agencies, e.g., municipal secretaries of works,
1/   See Chart No. 2.



- 19 -
state water companies, etc., would be passed as grants. 1/ Funds for projects
to be executed by commercial agencies, e.g., cooperatives, industrial park
companies, would be passed as loans, with interest rates of 2-6% on indexed
principal (depending on the specific circumstances of each sub-project
component).
3.09      Initially, the funds required for two quarters of disbursements
would be advanced by the agencies noted above and deposited in the project
account. SDU would only authorize the deposit of funds for the third quarter
after receiving certification from the FSA's that the funds for tlle first
quarter had been correctly applied to the project. The same system would
apply to subsequent quarters. Disbursements from the project account would be
conditional upon (a) the deposit or earmarking of local counterpart funds, and
(b) the authorization of the local project management unit with the exception
that the salary of the head of the project management unit, may be disbursed
as required irrespective of the status of local financial contributions. The
certification of expenditures by FSA's will be used by SDU to prepare with-
drawal requests for the Bank. Bank disbursements would be paid into FNDU.
The Federal Government would be responsible for loan repayments to the Bank
using funds from either FNDU or general revenues.
C. Financial Impact on Local Governments
3.10      The impact of the proposed investment program on local finances was
reviewed during the appraisal mission. Mlunicipal revenues in Juiz de Fora
have been growing at about 15% p.a. in real terms over the past four years,
and will reach Cr$964 million (US$48.3 million) in 1979. Similar growth rates
are found in Natal and Florianopolis, with municipal revenues expected to
attain Cr$347 million (US$17.4 million) and Cr$414 million (US$20.7 million),
respectively, in 1979. In the future, tax revenues in the cities appraised
will increase significantly following the execution of improved cadastral
surveys that will increase on property tax revenues through reduced evasion
and updated property values. In Florianopolis and Juiz de Fora, tax revenues
are expected to increase about 20% in real terms in 1979 solely as a result of
the cadastral survey; in Natal, available evidence suggests slightly smaller
increases in municipal tax revenues. While these levels of revenue are ade-
quate to meet operating budgets, they do not provide the resources necessary
to undertake investment programs on the scale required to alleviate accumu-
lated backlogs in urban infrastructure. Thus, the cities require infusions
of federal funds to enable them to undertake such programs.
3.11      On average, local counterpart funds (not including borrowings from
BNH) over the three years of project implementation will amount to Cr$ 20-30
1/   This does not relieve the municipalities, states, and their agencies
of the responsibility for cost recovery from final beneficiaries (see
paras 5.01-5.13).



- 20 -
million (US$1.0-1.5 million) per year in each city already appraised, i.e.,
between 6 and 17% of the average annual capital expenditures forecast in the
municipal triennial investment plans for 1979-81. (The repayment of BNH loans
will constitute only a small outflow over future years.) The three local
governments appraised will be able to provide counterpart funds without having
to increase their legal debt limit. Most of their outstanding loans were
extended by BNH and State Development Banks on relatively soft terms. Juiz de
Fora's debt portfolio includes one hard loan contracted for equity participa-
tion in a local steel mill. The repayment schedule associated with it will
not, however, affect project implementation because local counterpart funds in
Juiz de Fora will be shared equally by the city and the state government, with
the latter guaranteeing the total amount of required local counterpart funds.
Given these considerations, the local governments are not expected to have any
difficulties in providing local counterpart funds for the investment program.
The mission also reviewed the requirements for operation and maintenance of
project facilities and concluded that the local authorities should not have
difficulty in providing funds for this purpose. Assurances that the states
and municipalities accept the responsibility for operating and maintaining
project facilities will be included in the project agreements between the
Government and the local authorities that will be approved by the Bank.
D. Procurement
3.12      Procurement.  Based on estimates for the three cities appraised by
the Bank, the project would require procurement of approximately US$105
million of civil works and US$22 million of equipment. In the case of civil
works, about 100 separate subproject components spread across eight cities
would be involved, with an average of five contracts per component. In
addition, the works would be phased over three years to avoid placing undue
burdens on local design and supervision capacity. In the case of equipment,
about 70 separate components would be involved, each of which would involve
several contracts. In both cases, the diversity of works and equipment, and
the fact that the components would be executed by a large number of agencies
(for example, 16 in Florianapolis alone), preclude efficient packaging into
lots that would be of interest to foreign contractors or suppliers. Thus,
procurement for civil works and equipment would be more efficiently carried
out under local competitive procedures. These procedures, based on federal
legislation, ensure adequate competition and are consistent with Bank procure-
ment guidelines. They were used under the Secondary and Feeder Roads project
(Loan No. 1207-BR). Foreign firms would not be prevented from participating.
Appropriate checks would be made by supervision missions to ensure that
performance and quality are commensurate with satisfactory project execution.
Subject to Bank agreement, force account may be used for minor works where
bidding would involve costs and delays disproportionate to the works involved.
The total amount involved is not expected to exceed US$5 million.
3.13      Bank prior review and apprpoval of designs, bidding documents, and
contracts will be required for all contracts estimated to cost US$0.5 million
or more.  For all other contracts, CNPU will, on the basis of documentation
received from the federal sectoral agencies, analyze contracts signed during
the preceding six months, together with the respective bids and recommendations
for awards, and forward to the Bank a report on the analysis not later than
three months following the end of each six-month period. This was confirmed
at negotiations.



- 21 -
3.14      Disbursements.  Bank funds would be disbursed against civil works
contracts only. The disbursement percentage would be 60%. Disbursements
would be on the basis of statements of expenditures submitted by CNPU and
supported by statements of the subproject components involved itemizing the
contracts let, location of works, and amount disbursed. Detailed documenta-
tion supportiag the statements of expenses, including supervision reports and
certification of works and disbursements by the federal sectoral agencies,
would be retained by the project management units for review by project
supervision missions. Should the Bank determine that the award of any contract
was not consistent with the agreed-upon procedures, it would cancel the amount
of the loan allocated to that contract and deduct such amount from a future
withdrawal. The estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 3,
Table 6.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.15      Each local implementing agency shall maintain adequate project
records and accounts and shall make them available to SG/MINTER, which will
maintain a consolidated project account. In addition, the auditors will
examine the statements of expenditure submitted with disbursement applications
to ensure that they reflect properly incurred expenditures for legitimate
project purposes. SG/MINTER will submit to the Bank not more than nine months
after the close of each fiscal year annual audits of relevant project accounts,
the consolidated project account, and the statements of expenditure.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
An Overview
4.01      The following implementation system has been developed.  SG/MINTER
will have overall responsibility for appraising, through its Under-Secretariat
of Urban Development, the cities not appraised by the Bank; supervising and
coordinating project implementation in all eight cities; and exercising
financial supervision and control over all project components. SG/MINTER would
thus oversee and coordinate the implementation of the project as a whole. A
project coordinator, reporting to the Under-Secretary of Urban Development,
has been appointed to control the project and liaise with the Bank. An FSA
Coordinating Committee (FSACC) with representatives from the federal sectoral
agencies will be established.  It was confirmed at negotiations that a project
coordinator will be maintained during the project execution period and that
the establishment of the FSACC will be a condition of effectiveness.  Federal
sectoral agencies (FSA's) will provide to SDU services relating to projects in
their sphere of responsibility, including: guidance on project preparation to
cities not yet appraised; appraisal of project components in cities not yet
appraised; review of final designs and bidding and contracting procedures,
inspection of completed works, and disbursements; and monitoring of the
effectiveness of project components in meeting their objectives. The



- 22 -
responsibilities of each FSA have been set out in a convenio between the
agency and SG/MINTER (see para 4.44).  Four of the FS-A's-CEBRAE, SINE, COBAL,
and SUDEPE--will be paid a fee by SG/MINTER from its own funds for their
services. States and municipalities will have the responsibility for project
implementation. In each city, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be estab-
lished, supported by a technical committee, comprising representatives from
agencies involved in project execution. The project management unit will
nominate a local coordinator to facilitate communication with federal sectoral
agencies and SDU. The local authorities will also be responsible for cost
recovery and any complementary actions or policies.
4.02      Details of the implementation arrangements and the roles and respon-
sibilities of each agency are set out below. The project will not institute a
completely new set of arrangements; most of the system described below is
already in existence in Brazil. Local authorities do currently run complex
urban development programs; the federal sectoral agencies do evaluate projects,
transfer resources, and supervise project execution; CNPU did examine urban
development strategies and make grants for projects. This project aims to
improve the efficiency of the existing system through better technical analy-
sis, increased urban poverty targetting, and a greater degree of coordination
at the federal and local levels. Apart from technical procedures, the real
innovations in the system are the contractual arrangements to ensure coordi-
nation between SG/MINTER and the FSA's and the establishment of PMU's to
promote coordination at the local level. Since SG/MINTER, through SDU, will
both fund and supervise the PMU's, problems in this area should be limited to
technical ones. Given the experience of the FSA's, problems in this area are
more likely to be institutional or political than technical. However, several
factors, in addition to the existence of legal agreements, lead to the judgment
that they will cooperate with SDU and perform adequately: CNDU, chaired by
the Minister of the Interior, should be institutionally more commanding than
CNPU was, and its secretariat institution better located in relation to BNH,
which has a critical role in the project; CEBRAE, SINE, SUDEPE, and COBAL will
be able to expand their programs through participation in the project; EBTU's
program is funded from FDTU/FNDU and, hence, the two agencies already work
closely together; and both EBTU and BNH are executing agencies for Bank-
financed projects and are in the process of preparing new projects. Overall,
it is expected that the FSA's will carry out their roles in a timely and
efficient manner.
SG/MINTER--SDU
4.03      The internal structure of CNPU with respect to the MSC Project
is essentially maintained in its tranfer to the Ministry of the Interior. The
Medium-Sized Cities (MSC) Unit that was created in CNPU is now located in the
Under-Secretariat of Urban Development in SG/MINTER. The Under-Secretary
reports to the Secretary-General and is also the Executive Secretary of CNDU.
The MSC Unit is responsible for MSC program action guidelines and investment
programs, their execution, and the provision of technical assistance to the
agencies responsible for execution. The MSC Unit will have prime responsibility
for the proposed project. A specialized staff of eight professionals has been
developed within this unit to work exclusively on the MSC project and arrange-
ments made to work with the federal sectoral agencies (BNH, EBTU, CEBRAE, COBAL,



- 23 -
SINE, and SUDEPE). These agencies assist the MSC Unit in the analysis of
subprojects and will participate in implementation. Progress in this area has
resulted in a significant improvement in program coordination and technical
analysis.
4.04      The MSC Unit (with assistance from Bank staff) developed a system
for reviewing proposed projects, starting with documentation provided by the
cities (a city profile giving quantitative and spatial information on problems,
a city strategy setting out options and priorities, and project profiles
giving basic information on proposed projects designed to ameliorate the
problems). For cities to be appraised by SDU, this documentation will be
examined to identify gaps, to check for internal consistency among projects,
and to ensure consistency with the programs of other agencies. Questions on
technological alternatives and phasing of project elements will also be
raised. The result will be agreement between SDU and the city on a package of
projects for evaluation. This system has been tried in four cities with
considerable success and is currently being adjusted. The technical/ economic
appraisal of three cities was carried out by Bank staff with the participation
of the MSC Unit and FSA's. Convenios with FSA's call for them to carry out
the required analysis for the remaining cities and report to SDU. This part
of the system has been partly tested through the participation of FSA staff in
the Bank appraisal mission and in the Campina Grande appraisal. SDU's role
will be to manage and coordinate project execution, involving two main tasks:
appraising the remaining cities and coordinating and supervising project
implementation.
4.05      Appraisal.  Since the technical and economic evaluations will be
performed by the FSA's, the role of the MSC Unit will be to manage and coor-
dinate the appraisal process. In addition, the Unit will have to evaluate the
technical appraisals, judge the degree to which the approved projects fit
within each city's development strategy, and where necessary negotiate cuts
with the local authorities. (Guidelines for project appraisal and eligibility
criteria for projects to be financed by the Bank will be included in supple-
mental letters to the loan agreement; a draft, agreed at negotiations, is
attached as Annex 4.) The MSC Unit includes an appraisal group made up of
three urban planners, one transport engineer, and one social scientist, to be
complemented with one municipal engineer, one employment creation specialist,
and one economist/financial analyst. It was confirmed at negotiations that
the last three will enter into service as a condition of loan effectiveness.
The SDU group will be complemented by staff from the FSA's, who will be
responsible for the appraisal of projects within their portfolio. The teams
will include at least two representatives from each FSA. SDU has assumed
responsibility for the appraisal of social service projects. The whole MSC
Unit appraisal group participated in the appraisal of Campina Grande in order
to gain experience. The appraisal report for Campina Grande presented to the
Bank at negotiations is clear and succinct and shows evidence of considerable
appraisal capacity (see a summary in Annex 2). While the report was judged
generally satisfactory, weaknesses were detected in the sections on impact on
local finances and local implementation arrangements. In addition, certain
technical questions have been raised concerning specific components. These
elements will be clarified in the next version. To ensure that changes
are made, it was agreed at negotiations that Bank acceptance of the Campina
Grande Appraisal Report would constitute a condition of effectiveness. The



- 24 -
Campina Grande test of SDU's appraisal capacity clearly demonstrates that SDU,
supported by the FSA's, is capable of appraising the remaining cities.
4.06      Supervision.  Projects will be executed and directly supervised
by local executing agencies (e.g., Municipal Secretaries of Public Works,
State Water Companies). The FSA's will be responsible for overseeing the
supervision of works (see para. 1.24). Thus, SDU will be responsible for
coordinating supervision activities and ensuring that each city's program is
being executed in an integrated manner, as well as for supervising social
service projects. A supervision group will be formed in the MSC Unit to
follow progress closely and maintain close contact with the FSA's to ensure
timely attention to actual or potential problems. This group would represent
SDU to the local project management units, interpret progress reports to
SDU from the local level and the FSA' s, and provide briefing data on each
city for meetings of the federal level coordinating committee. The group will
be headed by an existing unit member with experience in the development of
the MSC program. The objective is to recruit six full-time staff members for
the eight cities under supervision. However, to facilitate project implement-
ation and provide rapid training, two persons per city will be assigned each
of the first three cities (Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora, and Natal). As the
remaining cities are prepared, experienced staff will be reassigned to each.
It was confirmed at negotiations that the creation of this unit with adequate
staff will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.07      CNPU developed, together with mission staff, a set of managerial
entities (including, for each city, a project management unit, a technical
coordination committee, and a Deliberative Council), staffing plans for these
entities based on the requirements of project execution, and a series of
operating procedures (including flows of funds, design review, PERT (critical
path) charts, disbursements, and conflict resolution). Therefore, given
(a) SDU's role of managing and coordinating project execution, (b) the
experience of the FSA's, and (c) the level of detail at which local systems
and procedures have been prepared, SDU is capable of carrying out its super-
vision role.
4.08      Financial and Management Control.  A specialized element of super-
vision is the housekeeping associated with project execution. This work will
be handled by the Ministry of Interior's Secretariat of Budget and Finance
(SOF), which has the capacity to carry out this role. To maintain effective
control, the MSC Unit will be strengthened by the addition of financial
management and control staff, comprising a financial controller and an account-
ant. It was confirmed at negotiations that this staff will be designated as a
condition of effectiveness.
4.09      CNDU Project Evaluation Guidelines.  To strengthen CNDU's overall
ability to make budget allocation and project selection decisions on more
technical grounds than hitherto, it would be desirable for the rigorous
standards applied to the Bank project to be applied more widely by CNDU. It
was agreed at negotiations that SG/MINTER, through SDU, will, by December 31,
1980, review its experience with the project guidelines and propose guidelines
(revised if necessary) for application to other CNDU integrated urban develop-
ment projects for medium-sized cities, review with the Bank by March 31, 1981,



- 25 -
such guidelines, and by September 30, 1981, present to CNDU for its approval
project appraisal guidelines to be implemented commencing January 1, 1982. In
addition, it was agreed at negotiations that SG/MINTER, through SDU, will
inform the Bank of any major CNDU investments in the cities participating in
this project during the project implementation period, provide information on
the impact of the investment on the MSC project, and provide the Bank with
adequate opportunity to comment on the investment. (Implementing an investment
that, in the Bank's judgment, would have an adverse effect on this project
would constitute an event of default under the loan.) In addition, it was
agreed that SC/MINTER will, through SDU, in the first quarter of each year,
from 1980 to 1984 (inclusive), submit to the Bank a report on CNDU's activities
for the previous year, together with a specific report on CNDU's non-Project
integrated urban development projects for medium-sized cities.
4.10      Summary.  The tasks to be carried out by the MSC Unit con-
stitute a significant increase in both the quantity and the nature of its
current work program. On the other hand, none of the individual tasks
are particularly complex. What makes the system appear complicated is the
large number of tasks to be coordinated. In terms of the tasks themselves
the unit will receive support from a series of competent FSA's (see below).
Moreover, the MSC Unit has in recent months demonstrated a significant capac-
ity to coordinate and integrate program elements. Finally, the Unit's respon-
sibilities will build up gradually giving time to train new staff and absorb
and adjust new procedures. Entrusting SG/MINTER with this project is a risk
that is well justified by the potential benefits, both to individual benefi-
ciaries and in terms of improved coordination in urban development planning.
Federal Sectoral Agencies and their Responsibilities
(1)  Banco Nacional de Habitacao/National Housing Bank (BNH) 1/
4.11      The Carteira de Desenvolvimento Urbano (CDU), the directorate
which will be responsible for BNH's participation in this project, is of
growing importance in BNH's operations. It operates five urban and regional
development programs, including CURA (Comunidade Urbana para Recuperacao
Accelerada), which finances infrastructure components within targeted areas of
cities. 2/ FITURB (Programa de Financiamento para Transporte de Massa), a
mass transport program; FRDU (Fundos Regionais de Desenvolvimento Urbano),
three special programs for urban development in the northeast, the north, and
the central south regions; FIPLAN (Financiamento para o Planejamento Urbano),
which finances urban planning projects; and PRODEPO (Programa de Apoio ao
Desenvolvimento de Polos Economicos), which provides financing to economic
growth poles such as the Amazon Region.  The value of projects financed
through the CDU for the past five years (to November 1, 1978) is over US$1,650
million equivalent. CDU has a professional and administrative staff of 63,
divided between headquarters (39) and regional offices (24).
1/   Several Bank-financed projects are currently being executed by BNH,
which has demonstrated its capacity to execute projects.
2/   The CURA program is currently being examined by the Bank and may be
the vehicle for a future integrated urban development project.



- 26 -
4.12      The pattern of expenditures over the different programs does not
reflect the workload within CDU. The regional funds (FRDU) are managed by
regional banks with minimal technical input from CDU, which also has limited
technical involvement in the transport program (FITURB). The major program,
in terms of staff resources, is CURA, followed by FIPLAN and PRODEPO. CURA
and FIPLAN are expected to grow in 1979. In global terms, based on budget
forecasts, CDU expects its 1979 operations to increase by 20% to 25% over the
1978 level.
4.13      BNH/CDU Operations under the MSC Project.  BNH will have a series
of responsibilities with respect to infrastructure projects, broadly defined
as projects including civil works--earthmoving, infrastructure networks
(e.g., water supply, sewerage, drainage), construction, buildings, etc. (The
category specifically excludes transport works and equipment of all kinds.)
BNH will be responsible for appraising infrastructure components, supervising
and approving final designs, certifying to SDU that procurement and contract-
ing is correctly carried out, certifying to SDU that works have been executed
adequately, and producing monitoring and evaluation reports. BNH will also
be responsible for the financial management of FNDU funds destined for infra-
structure projects, including transferring funds received from FNDU to a
local project account, maintaining project records and accounts, and pro-
viding SDU with the information and documentation required to prepare with-
drawal requests for the Bank. BNH will pay interest at 6% plus monetary
correction on undisbursed FNDU funds. The components with which BNH will
be associated are estimated to constitute approximately 53% of total proj-
ect costs. In addition, BNH will assist local authorities to obtain local
counterpart funds by lending 20-35% of the costs of infrastructure projects
to the local authorities. BNH has allocated Cr$1.8 billion (US$91 million)
for loans for projects in the MSC project, based on 35% of an earlier esti-
mate of the cost of infrastructure in the project.
4.14      Overall responsibility for this project in BNH would rest with
the Director of CDU, who would establish a special team comprising a coor-
dinator, an economist, an architect, and an engineer, supplemented as necessary
by additional resources from within CDU and other BNH directorates. The
CDU team, plus specialized staff from other directorates and regional offices,
would work with SDU on project appraisal. The criteria for project selection
have been discussed with BNH.
4.15      To the extent possible, existing systems would be used.  The exist-
ing finance department of CDU would prepare authorizations for disbursements
and transmit these to the central finance department of BNH, which would
release the funds. The accounting for the program would be done by the BNH
central accounting department, where a special account would be established.
This will be maintained on the BNH computer, using a system designed to
produce quarterly reports to SDU, detailing, by contract, applications of
grant and loan funds, as well as those for which disbursement applications
should be sent to the Bank. CDU project staff would add technical reports
and transmit a quarterly report package to SDU. CDU has a computerized
monitoring system, which is an adaptation of the GRAAF monitoring system,
which INOR will use for the rest of the program.



- 27 -
(2) Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos/
Brazilian Urban Transport Company (EBTU)
4.16      The Empresa Brasileira dos Transportes Urbanos (EBTU) was estab-
lished in 1976 with responsibility for developing a national urban transport
policy and controlling federal investment in urban transport, including ad-
ministrating a special fund to finance urban development projects--Fundo
do Desenvolvimento dos Transportes Urbanos/Urban Transportation Development
Fund (FDTU). EBTU is already responsible for the execution of the Brazil Urban
Transport Project (Loan No. 1563-BR). Procedures for project appraisal have
been developed, tested by EBTU (which has produced two satisfactory appraisal
reports), and agreed with the Bank. Thus, there is no doubt that EBTU has
the capacity and the experience to carry out its role in the MSC project.
4.17      EBTU Operations Under the MSC Project.  All aspects of appraisal,
supervision, monitoring, and evaluation for transport components will be the
responsibility of EBTU. Transport projects are expected to constitute approx-
imately 13% of total project costs. From a financing point of view, FDTU
allocations to the MSC project will be treated as an integral part of the
FNDU; consequently, the systems established for that fund will apply to EBTU's
financial participation. The financial and technical participation of EBTU
represents a channelling of existing resources rather than an increase in
program size of the organization. As a result, no special internal adjust-
ments are needed for EBTU to be able to fulfill its responsibilities under the
MSC project.
(3) Centro Brasileiro para Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa/Brazilian
Center for Assistance to the Small and Medium Enterprise (CEBRAE)
4.18      CEBRAE.  CEBRAE, a non-profit civil corporation created in 1972,
is the federal institution responsible for providing nationwide technical
assistance and managerial training to small and medium sized enterprises.
Total resources expended between 1972 and 1977 were US$60 million). The
budget for 1978 is approximately US$38 million; the projected budget for
1979 is US$75 million. Sixty-five percent of CEBRAE's budget comes from the
Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico and SEPLAN. Thirty-five percent
comes from state and regional sources. CEBRAE operates through its state
agents, called Centros de Apoio Gerencial (CEAG's) and Nucleos de Assistencia
Industrial (NAI's), located in each of the 22 state capital cities and in
three or four interior cities. Current CEBRAE policy is to locate CEAG/NAI
offices in interior cities and to link industry with agricultural development.
All of the cities proposed for assistance under the Medium-Sized Cities
Project either now have or will have a CEAG office in operation by the
time the city becomes a viable candidate for inclusion into the MSC program.
CEBRAE has a headquarters staff of 50 full-time technicians, with 500 others
in the CEAG's. In addition, the CEAG's are complemented by over 250 consul-
tants contracted for providing technical and managerial assistance. CEBRAE's
experience with assisting micro-enterprises is significant: participating in
the UNO micro-enterprise program in Recife, Pernambuco (the UNO program is the
originator of micro-enterprise programs in Brazil), starting a microenterprise
program in Rio Grande do Sul, assisting with the development of the UNO
micro-enterprise program in Bahia, and starting a microenterprise program in
Piaui. In 1978, CEBRAE was successful in obtaining lines of credit for



- 28 -
micro-enterprises in nine states (Amazonas, Para, Acre, Goias, Mato Grosso,
Paraiba, Sergipe, Rio Grande do Sul, and Minas Gerais). In December of this
year, CEBRAE sponsored the first national evaluation of the microenterprise
program in Brazil. The objective of CEBRAE is to have a functioning micro-
enterprise program in every state.
4.19      CEBRAE Operations under the MSC Project.  CEBRAE will be SDU's
primary consultant for all medium, small, and micro-enterprise projects and
will coordinate on behalf of SDU all aspects of the employment generation
projects, as well as participating in the appraisal, supervision, monitoring
and evaluation of projects. In the case of projects related to food dis-
tribution, CEBRAE will work in conjunction with COBAL, for projects involv-
ing fisheries with SUDEPE, and for projects involving informal or very small
family businesses with SINE. (The division of responsibility between CEBRAE
and SINE is based on CEBRAE's experience with micro-enterprises and SINE's
interest in the very small, informal family business.) CEBRAE and SINE will
be responsible for projects that represent approximately 9% and 2%, respec-
tively, of total project costs.
4.20      CEBRAE has given highest priority to the MSC project requirements
in its program. It has assembled a team of six senior professionals from its
national and regional offices and engaged consultants specifically for the
project. This team reports to the director of special projects for CEBRAE
in Brasilia. The team includes a financial analyst, a former director of
CEBRAE, an economist from CEBRAE headquarters, and two specialists in the
management of micro-enterprises, recruited from CEBRAE local agencies in Piaui
and Rio Grande do Sul. In addition, a CEAG professional has been assigned to
assist in project preparation in each city.
4.21      CEBRAE has extensive relevant experience in all areas for which
it has responsibility, including the preparation of guidelines for project
appraisal. The only area in which its experience is limited is that of
economic analysis. It is currently modifying its guidelines, based on experi-
ence obtained through participation in the Bank appraisal mission. The new
guidelines will be applied in the remaining cities of the program. (CEBRAE
also plans to apply the revised guidelines to its own projects). Systems for
all of CEBRAE's other functions are established and will be used for its
operations within this program. CEBRAE's technical assistance will include
assisting micro-entrepreneurs to obtain credit from existing sources and
supervising the use of that credit.
(4) Sistema Nacional de Emprego/National Employment System (SINE)
4.22      SINE was established in October 1975 with responsibility for organ-
izing a system of information and research concerning the employment market,
supporting the implementation of employment policy establishing placement
offices, supplying relevant information to workers and to users of manpower,
providing support for educational and training systems, and promoting condi-
tions for improving the balance of supply and demand in employment markets.
SINE operates in four main areas: production and analysis of information



- 29 -
about the employment situation; intermediation between employers and the
unemployed; the creation of new jobs, and maintainenance of existing jobs; and
proposing guidelines, programs, projects, and policy measures to increase
employment opportunities. SINE is organized into a National Employment Policy
Council (CNPE), a National Headquarters, and headquarters in each state.
SINE's national headquarters develops guidelines for studies and research,
intermediation and employment promotion, financial and technical support to
programs, and supervision of their execution. The State Headquarters depend
administratively on the Secretary of Labor of the states and tehnically on
the national headquarters. Micro-regional centers exist with fixed or mobile
local offices distributed according to population size and economic activity.
4.23      SINE is a relatively new organization and is, therefore, still
defining its role in the overall institutional context. As a consequence, it
is attempting different means of intervening in the labor market in order to
promote employment. In the last two years, SINE's work has been concentrated
in three main areas: producing employment market indicators, intermediation
between job seekers and employing establishments, and employment promotion.
In intermediation, SINE has improved its results from 21% placement of regis-
tered workers in 1977 to 31.5% in 1978, and its employment promotion activi-
ties had 76 projects in operation in the informal sector employing 6,813
persons. In relation to CEBRAE's activities, SINE is defining its role as
one of concentrating on the smaller, informal, family enterprises, where
technical and managerial assistance can be combined with social assistance.
4.24      SINE Operations under the MSC Projet.  SINE will be involved with
employment generation projects that provide technical assistance and credit
supervision to very small enterprises, especially in the informal sector and
intermediation between these enterprises and formal sector institutions such
as banks and suppliers of raw materials. SINE will have a team of five
professionals with experience in social sciences, project preparation,
and evaluation devoted to the project. The National Office of SINE will be
involved in project appraisal and supervision, while its state level offices
will advise in project preparation and execution. Some projects, such as the
laundry cooperative in Florianopolis, will be executed by staff from the local
SINE office. Local SINE staff will also provide technical assistance and
background research for project preparation and evaluation. SINE will be
responsible only for parts of project components involving very small busi-
nesses. It is capable of carrying out its role.
(5) Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos/
Brazilian Foodstuffs Company (COBAL)
4.25      COBAL was established in 1962 as a national company to improve food
supply and distribution. In 1964, COBAL was linked to the Ministry of Agri-
culture. The primary objectives of COBAL are to execute the Government's
programs in the areas of food supply and distribution; to act as the regulator
of markets for essential products and to be responsible for supplies in areas
which are not adequately supplied by the private sector; and to promote the
modernization of the system of food supply and distribution. COBAL has broad
authority to be involved in any or all phases of food supply and distribution.



- 30 -
4.26      The major programs of COBAL are the regulation of critical stocks,
wholesaling/retailing, promoting small producers, operating self-service
stores, the National Program of Voluntary Chains, cooperative supermarkets,
SINAC--the national system of food distribution centers. It executes these
programs both directly through the national organization and indirectly
through its local agents--the Companhias Estaduais de Alimentos/State Food
Supply Companies (CEASA's). COBAL's June 30, 1977 published balance sheet
and income statement reveals assets of US$551.5 million, 1/ of which US$319.9
or 58% was in buffer stocks. Sales receipts for COBAL during the 1976/77
financial year were US$364.7 million, representing 95% of total income. Net
profits, after tax, were US$2.5 million or less than 1% of sales.
4.27      COBAL Operations under the MSC Project.  COBAL will be responsible
for all projects related to the distribution of food, representing approxi-
mately 6% of total project costs. The national organization will be respons-
ible for appraisal, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation, while its local
agents will provide technical assistance in project preparation and implemen-
tation. In some cases (e.g., Cadeias Voluntarias), projects fall entirely
within the orbit of COBAL normal operations and will be projects within that
program; and the Human Resources Department Center, which will be concerned
with training.
4.28      COBAL will examine project profiles presented by cities to determine
the steps needed to prepare the projects. During project preparation, COBAL
will comment on the adequacy of the documentation prepared (with technical
assistance from the CEASA's), but will not evaluate the projects until they
are completely prepared and presented to SDU. It will then appraise them
according to the agreed guidelines. During implementation, COBAL will carry
out all necessary reviews on projects which its local agents will execute,
including designs, procurement procedures, and contracts. Where its local
agents are not the executors, COBAL will examine and comment on the document-
ation for all stages, but the responsibility for revisions will rest with the
executing agency. When its local agencies are executing a project, COBAL may
also provide working capital, personnel, and training. COBAL will monitor and
evaluate projects.
4.29      The departments involved in the project are well-staffed with 94
professionals plus consultants. During the past three years, COBAL has
executed many projects similar to the ones it would be responsible for in
the MSC program. Its involvement was comprehensive, including feasibility
studies, engineering, implementation, operation, and evaluation. The MSC
projects represent less than 5% of the planned workload of these departments
over the project period, and will be managed initially by a team of five full-
time professionals, which will be increased if needed. The requirements of
MSC program are fully integrated into the normal operations of COBAL.
(6) Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento de Pesca/
Agency for Fisheries Development (SUDEPE)
4.30      SUDEPE was established in 1962. Its current responsibilities include
the preparation of the National Plan for the Development of Fisheries (PNDP)
1/   US$1.0 = Cr$14.2 (mean of 12/76 and 12/77).



- 31 -
and the promotion of its execution, fisheries protection, harvesting, processing,
and marketing, the provision of technical assistance to fishing enterprises,
the promotion of training, skill upgrading and cooperativization, the admin-
istration of a program of fiscal incentives, project evaluation and supervi-
sion, data collection, etc. To meet these objectives, SUDEPE has powers to
execute projects directly or through agreements or contracts, to complement
the actions of state institutions, to supervise compliance with federal and
local laws and procedures, to issue licenses for concessions under special
PNDP programs, to raise financial resources,to subscribe capital to companies,
to assume the administration of federal and state programs related to fisheries.
4.31      SUDEPE's organizational structure comprises a Deliberative Council
and an executive unit, the Superintendencia. The executive head of SUDEPE (the
Superintendent) is appointed by the President of the Republic and manages the
Superintendent's Office, which includes Planning and Budgeting, the Central
Management Offices (Admnistration, Finance, Personnel), Research and Technol-
ogy, Promotion, Fish Development and Monitoring, and the Regional Coordinators
and local units which directly execute specific projects for SUDEPE.
4.32    SUDEPE Operations under the MSC Project.  SUDEPE has assigned a team
of 12 professionals to work at the national level on appraisal and supervision
of fishing cooperative components representing approximately 6% of total
project costs. The team will be led by the director of the Department for
the Development and Supervision of Fishing (DEFOP) and will include economists,
agronomists, biologists, and oceanographers--all with considerable expertise
in fisheries. At the local level, SUDEPE will provide two persons in each
city to work with the authorities on project preparation. During execution,
SUDEPE will provide direct supervision at the local level, and will evaluate
the ultimate benefits of the projects. The local offices will also provide
progress reports on project implementation and would be involved in required
schedule and budget revisions. SUDEPE has already prepared guidelines for
project preparation and appraisal which have been used in evaluating over
100 projects during the past three years. No problems are anticipated in
relation to SUDEPE's capacity to carry out its role under the project.
Local Agencies and their Responsibilities
4.33      Local agencies, primarily in the municipalities, will bear front-
line responsibility for project execution and operation, including design,
contracting, construction, supervision of works, beneficiary selection, com-
plementary policies, cost recovery, etc. The mission reviewed the past
performance and capacity of all the agencies involved in the cities appraised
by the Bank. This project is made up of a series of components that, in
general, will be executed by a series of different agencies so that no single
agency is responsible for a major part of the project. Moreover, the imple-
mentation approach utilizes existing and generally effective systems with
organizations which have clearly defined responsibilities and experience in
particular areas of activities. Thus, the mission concluded that the local
capacity to execute the project is adequate. However, the same feature that
led to this conclusion leads to the parallel conclusion that the coordination
of these activities will be a difficult and complex task. Thus, the mission
concentrated on arrangements for project management, coordination, and control.



- 32 -
4.34      In each city, a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established
as a component of the project with the responsibility for management and
coordination. Each PMU will be an autonomous unit within the municipal or
state planning office. This unit will be responsible for management of the
project at the local level, including establishing and maintaining work pro-
grams, budgets, and accounts, supervising and monitoring work progress and
expenditures, authorizing disbursements, preparing progress reports, and
chairing the local coordinating committee. The PMU will prepare critical
path programs for each project with the agencies involved, and will use these
programs as a management tool for supervision, monitoring, and control. The
hiring of the core PMU staff--project coordinator, infrastructure manager,
employment creation manager, and financial manager--will be a condition of
disbursement for each city. A Deliberative Council, consisting of the head
of each agency involved in sub-project execution and chaired by the State
Secretary of Planning, shall be created to review the general execution of
the sub-project and to resolve any conflicts that may arise among the execut-
ing agencies.  A Local Coordinating Committee will be created, composed of
senior technical representatives of agencies involved in the project, which
will review progress reports and performance compared to the targets estab-
lished and agreed to in the critical path programs, and resolve problems
which may arise, including reprogramming of projects. A state-level bank will
be responsible for handling the funds for the project, including verifying
that all parties have deposited their contributions before making disbursements
and that disbursements to, or on behalf of, local executing agencies are
authorized by the local management unit. The state and municipal planning
agencies will provide support for the local management unit, and may also be
involved in executing or supervising municipal administration development
projects. Other state and municipal agencies execute projects, sub-projects,
or portions of projects which are within their responsibilities. 1/ To
facilitate the exposition of these systems, a detailed description is presented
for Florianopolis. The responsibilities of the different agencies are summar-
ized for each city in Table 4, Annex 3. The descriptions of the roles of each
PMU are presented in the text below.
4.35      Florianoplis.  Five municipal and 11 state agencies will be
involved in project execution. The Instituto do Planejamento de Florianopolis
(IPUF) will be responsible for executing the planning and municipal adminis-
tration components; COMCAP, an empresa publica, which is the major capital
project executing agency in Florianopolis, will be responsible for most of the
health posts, creches, child care centers, primary schools and the Central
Canteen, and will also execute the trash collection project; the Municipal
Secretariat at Transportation and Works will supervise drainage and road
improvements, construct hillside stairs, and stabilize slopes; the Municipal
Secretariat of Education, Health, and Social Services (SESAS) will be respon-
sible for the design of health posts, day-care centers, and creches, and for
their operation; the Municipal Secretariat of Administration will be respon-
sible for implementing of the results of the municipal administration study;
1/   The responsibilities of these entities will be set out in the project
agreements between the Government and the local authorities (see para.
4.44).



- 33 -
CASAN, the State Water and Sewage Company, will be responsible for the water
and sewage project; DASP, the State Department of Public Health, will be re-
sponsible for the septic tank project; COHAB/SC, the state housing company,
will be responsible for design and supervision of the sites and services
projects; CELESC, the State Electricity Company, will install the power
network in the Sites and Services project; the State Secretariat for Health
will supervise the health posts, child care centers, and creches project; the
State Secretariat for Education will design and supervise the primary schools
project; CITUR, the State Tourism Development Company, will be involved in the
design, implementation, and supervision of the Tourism Study; CODISC, the
State Industrial District Company, will be responsible for executing the
infrastructure works for the industrial park; ACARPESC, the State Association
for Credit and Assistance to Fishing Enterprises, will be responsible for the
fishing cooperative project; ACARESC, the State Association for Credit and
Assistance for Rural Enterprises, will design and give technical assistance to
the milk cooperative project; OCESC, the State Association of Cooperatives,
will oversee, give technical assistance to, and supervise the milk cooperative
project; COBAL/SC will be responsible for the food distribution project;
CEAG/SC will provide managerial and technical assistance to the microenter-
prises; SINE/SC will be responsible for the socioeconomic survey of artisans
and artisan production, as well as the launderers' association project.
4.36      Each agency was appraised to ensure that it is capable of carrying
out its role under the project. Given the high level of involvement of
COMCAP, it was appraised in detail. It is a dynamic, competent company with
considerable experience in civil works and a good record of executing a growing
number of projects on time and within budget. It also runs the Florianopolis
trash collection service. It is quite capable of carrying out its role under
this project. CASAN and DASP were also given special attention as they will
be responsible for important parts of the project. Both agencies have suffi-
cient experience and capacity to execute their project components. All the
other executing agencies have relatively small roles that are well within
their capacities.
4.37      To ensure that the above agencies execute their project components
in an integrated and coordinated manner, a Project Management Unit will
be established within IPUF with responsibility for managing and coordinating
project execution. IPUF was created in 1977 (a) to coordinate urban projects,
including a transport plan, a CURA project, and road works; (b) to prepare
an integrated set of development projects; and (c) to establish an adequate
data base for ongoing planning and administration purposes. IPUF has proved
to be a competent and dynamic organization, completing several projects, in-
cluding master and sectoral plans for sections of the metropolitan area,
preparing legislation to implement the master plan (as revised by IPUF),
coordinating the implementation of projects, preparing proposals for the MSC
program, including preparing the city and project profiles and, in conjunction
with the local executing agencies, the projects proposed for financing under
the Bank-supported MSC program. Excluding the Bank-supported MSC project,
IPUF's budget for 1979 is Cr$10 million and its staff complement of 17 profes-
sionals (including 7 architects, 4 engineers, and 3 economists) is scheduled
to be expanded by eight additional professionals next year.



- 34 -
4.38      PMU.  The project management unit will be headed by a Director of
IPUF, and will include 9 other professionals: 2 architects, 2 engineers, 1
urban planner, 1 sociologist, I economist, 1 accountant, and an administrator.
It is intended that the key staff will be existing IPUF personnel who worked
on project preparation. They will be transferred to work full-time in the
unit. The unit will report through the President of IPUF to a Deliberative
Committee chaired by the State Secretary of Planning, and will comprise the
heads of each local agency involved in the project. The unit will have
responsibility for all the functions outlined in para 5.34. A key management
tool will be the set of critical path charts prepared for each project. A
staff member will be assigned to each subproject and will monitor execution.
Unit staff will not be involved in detailed supervision of works, but will
concentrate on using the critical path charts to ensure the timely execution
of required tasks by different agencies. Having a detailed statement of
tasks, events, and their timing should enable unit staff to foresee problems
and delays, to take corrective action, and if necessary to reprogram other
tasks. In addition, the PMU will receive considerable assistance from both
SDU and the Bank, especially in the early stages of project execution. In
the light of IPUF's demonstrated capacity to manage and coordinate complex
operations, there is no doubt that IPUF is the right location for the PMU and
that, given adequate support, the IPUF management is capable of operating the
unit successfully.
4.39      Juiz de Fora.  The 12 projects in Juiz de Fora will be executed
by 10 municipal and five state agencies and four local agents of federal
sectoral agencies. The details of their involvements are in Table 4, Annex 3.
4.40      The PMU will be located within the municipal Insitute of Research
and Planning (IPPLAN). The Institute, which will become an autarchy in
January 1979, was established in January 1978 to replace an ineffectual
municipal Secretariat of Planning.  IPPLAN enjoys the support of the present
mayor and has been given the responsibility of coordinating the preparation
of the annual municipal budget and the management of the city CURA project, in
addition to the MSC program. The performance of the organization has been
impressive. In particular, the documentation prepared for the appraisal
mission in a short time was of a high standard, and although the staff is
still quite small and in some cases relatively inexperienced, they are en-
thusiastic and hard-working, with a core of experienced leadership centered
around the President. The management unit will be headed by the current
Director of Operations and will report to the President of IPPLAN. The
staff of the unit will include nine professionals (three architects, three
sociologists, two engineers, and an economist), who will exercise program
control functions. Financial accounting and reporting will be provided by the
Finance Department of IPPLAN. IPPLAN has been given full authority to estab-
lish the management unit, and through it, to manage the program in Juiz de
Fora.
4.41      Natal.  The projects in Natal will involve 11 state agencies, three
municipal agencies, and five local agents of FSA's as indicated in Table 4,
Annex 3.
4.42      The PMU will be created by assigning staff from the State Secre-
tariat of Planning (SEPLAN/RN) and the Municipal Secretariat of Planning



- 35 -
(SEMPLA) to an autonomous new entity dedicated to this program, reporting
to the State Secretary of Planning. The unit will include a coordinator
and 12 professionals (three economists, three engineers, three business
administrators, a sociologist, a social worker, and an accountant) plus
support staff. Although the unit will report to the State Secretary of
Planning it will not be an integrated part of SEPLAN/RN, but a special en-
tity which recognizes the joint participation of the State and the Munici-
pality. As a self-contained unit, it will perform all of the functions
required of a management unit. The higher level of state participation in
Natal reflects both the relative strengths of the state and municipal planning
agencies and the strong commitment of the state to promoting urban develop-
ment and strengthening planning and executing capacity at the municipal level.
The unit and the program will be overseen by a Deliberate Council chaired by
the State Secretary of Planning and including the heads of the entities in-
volved.
B. Legal Arrangements
4.43      The project's legal structure would comprise the following agree-
ments:
(a)  Loan Agreement (1)        - between the Bank and the Federal
Government;
(b)  Convenios (6)             - between the Federal Government and the
Federal Sectoral Agencies; and
(c)  Project Agreements (8)   - between the Federal Government, the
Municipalities, and the States.
Both the convenios and project agreements would be subject to Bank approval
to ensure that appropriate clauses on execution responsibility, accounting,
reporting, and complementary policies are included. Drafts of the federal
agency convenios were brought to negotiations and it was agreed that signing
of them would be a condition of Board presentation. A draft project agree-
ment was brought to negotiations and it was agreed that signing of the proj-
ect agreements will be a condition of disbursement for each city and signing
of one project agreement will be a condition of effectiveness. It was con-
firmed at negotiations that SG/MINTER will enter into project agreements with
Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora, and Natal by December 31, 1979, with Campina
Grande by March 31, 1980, and with the remaining four cities by December 31,
1980.
4.44      Although the Bank would not be a party to the project agreements,
they would have to be approved by the Bank. For cities appraised by the Bank,
special covenants that must be included in the project agreements have been
incorporated in the Loan Agreement. A draft (agreed at negotiations) is



- 36 -
included as Annex 5. For the remaining cities, the appraisal report presented
to the Bank by SDU would detail any special covenants required for project exe-
cution. Following Bank approval of the appraisal report, a project agreement
would be prepared, including the special covenants, and submitted to the Bank
for approval. Should either the appraisal report or the project agreement
prove to be inadequate, revisions and resubmissions would be requested. Thus,
all Bank rights will be adequately protected. This system will give the Bank
all necessary controls without the Bank being a party to a complex set of
agreements.
C. Implementation Schedule
4.45      Project implementation will take approximately 42 months, assuming
a starting date of July 1, 1979. Considerable care will be required in
the scheduling of implementation activities given the integrated nature of
the project.  Implementation-schedules for each city have been prepared on
the basis of detailed physical/financial chronograms for each sub-project.
Summary financial chronograms for each city are provided in Table 5, Annex 3.
Critical path charts are currently being prepared. To guard further against
possible delays and time overruns, the following steps will be taken: (a) all
chronograms will be reviewed by the executing agencies and any revisions
submitted before Board presentation; (b) project units, the FSA's, and SDU
will monitor all projects very closely during the first two quarters to
identify protential problems early and to permit rescheduling of works, if
necessary.
D. Monitoring
4.46      In a multi-component project such as this, efficient monitoring and
evaluation is crucial if implementation problems are to be discovered early
and corrective measures taken. In addition, evaluation can perform a larger
role by providing information on successful or unsuccessful project designs
to aid in the conception of similar projects in the future or in other cities.
To facilitate the monitoring process, SDU will use a computerized logical
framework monitoring system maintained by INOR (Instituto de Programacao e
Orcamento) in the Federal Secretary of Planning. It was confirmed at nego-
tiations that the Government will ensure INOR's participation. The INOR
system operates at two levels: first, information on the efficiency with
which the different subprojects are being executed and, second, their effec-
tiveness in meeting their goals.
4.47      Efficiency.  The key element is a project-by-project statement of
the physical progress and financial expenditures expected in each quarter
of project execution. On a quarterly basis, the executing agency reports
the percentage of execution completed and the percentage of budget spent.
The actual and target time paths of progress and expenditures are plotted
graphically to give an effective management tool that indicates projects



- 37 -
that are falling behind or that have cost overruns. The results can be
aggregated for subsets of projects in a given city or for similar projects
in different cities. The objective is a tool that requires minimal informa-
tion to flag problems for project management staff.
4.48      Effectiveness.  The key element is a statement for each subproject
of basic information on project objectives in terms of the global objective
(e.g., reduce the incidence of infant mortality and water-borne diseases),
the specific objecives (e.g., provide 70% of the population of an area with
sanitary facilities), the target or outputs (e.g., install 2,000 septic
tanks) and the inputs required. At this stage, it will be important to
design indicators that show specific features of project effectiveness,
such as the proportion of benefits received by, for example, the urban poor
or by women. This information is presented both in brief narrative form and
quantitatively in terms of verifiable indicators of success, together with
(a) indications of who will be reponsible for updating the indicators and
how often and (b) the critical assumptions that were made in specifying the
project (e.g., availability of materials). This information will be presented
to project managers and the responsible staff in the federal sectoral agencies
on a regular basis so that projects can be reviewed and, if necessary, modi-
fied in order to be more effective in meeting their objectives. In addition
to using the INOR data to monitor project progress, each federal sectoral
agency will be responsible for producing periodic evaluations of the pro-
grams under their responsibility. This would involve, for example, comparing
sanitation projects across cities and evaluating implementation procedures
and effectiveness with a view to identifying those factors that contribute
to good or bad experiences.
4.49      INOR will train members of the project management unit in each
city in the use and requirements of this system, which will become the major
reporting procedure from the cities to SG/MINTER and the federal agencies.
To review the information produced, SG/MINTER will use the supervision group
created in the MSC unit. In addition, federal sectoral agencies have dedi-
cated staff members to monitor project implementation for the specific proj-
ects falling under their responsibility. SG/MINTER will be the coordinating
agency for monitoring and evaluation information, will review the output of
the other federal agencies, and will transmit regular reports to the Bank.
V.  COST RECOVERY, AFFORDABILITY, AND REPLICABILITY
5.01      The main reasons for insisting on cost recovery are:
(a) to promote design modifications and cost reductions that
bring project benefits within reach of the target group; and
(b) to provide a source of funds to permit the project to be
replicated, thus extending benefits beyond the beneficiaries
of the initial project.



- 38 -
The following sections set out the cost recovery mechanisms that will be used
under this project, the extent to which project outputs are affordable to the
target group, and the system developed for channelling funds resulting from
cost recovery into future projects. The basic approach taken is that costs
should be recovered from the final beneficiaries. Given the objective of the
MSC program to promote faster than average development in selected cities,
costs will be recovered to the local government, which will use them to pro-
mote further development through the creation of a local Urban Development
Fund--FMDU (see below for the operation of the FMDU).
A. Cost Recovery
5.02       A variety of cost recovery mechanisms will be used depending on
the type of project and local circumstances. The following general principles
apply. For food distribution (A10), industrial infrastructure (A20), and
technical assistance and equipment for cooperatives, project costs will be
recovered from the executing agent to the FMDU. Technical assistance to small
firms components (A30) project costs will be recovered to the CEAG's; CEBRAE
experience is that about 40% of project costs will be recovered. Manpower
training (A50) project costs will not be recovered; beneficiaries will only
pay a small course fee. Costs of water supply and sanitation (B10/20) proj-
ects and sites and services projects (B60) will be directly recovered from
the beneficiaries. Drainage project (B30) costs will be recovered through
maintenance savings and increased property taxes. Transport projects (B40)
are financed with taxes collected from road users; no additional cost recovery
mechanisms are included. Trash project (B50) costs are recovered through
local trash collection taxes. Community facility (B70) costs are covered from
general revenues. Administrative improvement project costs are covered from
increased efficiency, higher tax revenues, and general revenues. (For details
of the cost recovery mechanisms and the percentages of costs recovered for
each type of project, see Annex 6.)
B. Affordability
5.03       Although several of the job and income creation projects will re-
sult in reduced costs of products consumed by the poor (e.g., fish, milk,
etc.), affordability considerations apply primarily to urban infrastructure
projects. Basic data on the affordability of basic services are presented
below.
5.04      Water Supply.  During appraisal, discussions with the water com-
panies led to significant reductions in connection fees, from Cr$680
(Florianopolis) and Cr$1,409 (Juiz de Fora) to Cr$100. In Natal, connec-
tion fees are Cr$20 for the poorest people. In addition, financing will
be provided by the companies to spread the payment over 12 months. This
should go a long way towards reducing the number of households that cannot



- 39 -
connect to the water system because they cannot afford the connection fee.
Moreover, the increase in the number of households connecting creates a
flow of revenue for the water company that more than offsets the reduced
revenue from connection fees.  Monthly Iinimum water tariffs are:  Cr$40.95
(under 3% of one minimum wage) for 15 m of water in Florianopolis and Cr$23
(1.5% of one minimum wage) for 15 m in Juiz de Fora; in Natal, a minimum
flat rate 3of Cr$28 (2.5% of one minimum wage) applies to lots with less
than 50 m of floor area. Under the guidelines of the Brazilian government
and the Pan American Health Organization, water supply systems are deemed
affordable if the payment is less than 5% of household income. Thus, the
water supply systems provided by this project will be affordable by families
with incomes under one minimum wage. The Bank urban poverty guideline is
three minimum wages in these cities.
5.05       Sanitation.  Septic tanks in Florianopolis will be repaid over 20
years and the maximum monthly payment (for families not contributing cement
bags) is Cr$10, so the combined water and sanitation fee is Cr$50.95 (3.3%
of one minimum wage). Brazilian guidelines set the affordability threshold at
7% of household income. Therefore, a septic tank plus water is affordable by
families with incomes of one minimum wage.
5.06       Sites and Services.  The financing plans for sites and services
subprojects make them affordable by families with incomes very close to one
minimum wage in Juiz de Fora, Natal, and Florianopolis.
5.07       Summary.  Overall, the major services to be provided under this
project are affordable to families with very low incomes. Water and sani-
tation, for example, are affordable to families below the fifth percentile
of the income distribution in Florianopolis. This situation reflects the
benefits that can be obtained from concentrating on design simplification and
cost reduction at an early stage in project preparation.
C. Replicability
5.08       As a means of channelling costs recovered from this project into
similar projects, a Municipal Urban Development Fund (FMDU) will be created
in every city included in the MSC project. The FMDU will be a revolving
fund receiving resources from cost recovery from beneficiaries of subproj-
ects financed under the MSC project. Cost recovery mechanisms feeding the
FMDU include direct user charges collected by municipal or state agencies,
property taxes, and repayments from productive enterprises assisted under
the project. The reason for the creation of a new mechanism for channelling
funds has two elements. First, the retention of cost recovery resources at
the local level emphasizes the objective of promoting urban development in
selected, strategic cities by providing a flow of resources for investment in
these cities. Second, the creation of a fund with specific rules for project
selection reduces the risk that the flow of funds created by this project
might be diverted to other uses. Thus, overall, the fund is designed as a
form of assurance that funds intended for replicability will be used for
that purpose.



- 40 -
5.09      It is not possible to finalize operational rules for each FMDU at
this stage, since they will differ from city to city. During project execu-
tion, a dialogue will be carried out with the cities to establish operating
rules and the cities and states will be encouraged to provide the fund with
"seed" money to test the rules and procedures. The following general prin-
ciples have been developed and discussed with the cities appraised by the
Bank:
(a) the FMDU will be segregated from the municipality's general
revenues and will be maintained in a special account in a
state-level bank, which will apply monetary correction to
maintain the real value of the fund;
(b) future projects to be financed by the FMDU will be selected
by a specially appointed decision-making body and upon re-
commendation of the project management unit, which will en-
sure that such projects: (i) recover costs; (ii) meet agreed
criteria concerning design and implementation; (iii) have a
high poverty impact; and (iv) include a minimum proportion of
employment generation projects (selected on the basis of addi-
tional criteria, e.g., low capital-labor ratio, low number
of employees per firm, and importance of proposed project to
the local economy); and
(c) In states where two or more municipalities are involved (e.g.,
Santa Catarina), the decision-making body will be composed of
representatives of the state and the municipalities. Each
municipality will be guaranteed a minimum proportion of funds
for qualified projects, and the state will control sufficient
votes to ensure that, while it may be outvoted by a unanimous
decision of all municipalities, no single municipality may be
barred from participation by a majority of others.
5.10      The FMDU's will start up slowly since cost recovery can only start
following project execution and even then is frequently a long process (e.g.,
when 20 years are allowed to pay for a septic tank). Preliminary cash flows
have been prepared for the FMDUs of Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora, and Natal.
They indicate that the following volumes of resources will be available:
Table 6.1: FMDU Resources (Cr$million)
At the end of
5 years    10 years    15 years
Florianopolis                         29            77         128
Juiz de Fora                           19           55          91
Natal                                 15            47          79
While it would be unreasonable to expect these funds to provide all the in-
vestment resources required in these cities, the system is expected to pro-
vide a flow of investment funds to begin to provide basic services to that



- 41 -
proportion of the urban poor that is made up of internal growth and migra-
tion. In the next five years, infusions of resources to the FMDU from state
and municipal budgets would accelerate the process of consolidating the fund.
The cities are committed to the idea, since it gives them a new source of
funds. SG/MINTPR will be responsible for following up on the FMDU's and
ensuring that adequate operating rules are developed and followed, so that the
potential of this new approach has a good chance of being realized.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Justification
6.01      For the three cities appraised by the Bank mission team (Florian-
opolis, Juiz de Fora, and Natal), the project components are all strongly
justified. Economic evaluations were performed on project components that
constitute 66% of total costs for the three cities. The overall internal
rate of return for the three cities is 29%, made up of 28% in Florianopolis,
31% in Juiz de Fora, and 31% in Natal. The overall rates of return for
employment and income generation and urban infrastructure projects are 53%
and 18%, respectively. Equally important, the project components are designed
to yield substantial direct benefits to the urban poor. The urban poverty
impact was estimated for project components constituting 84% of total costs
for the three cities. For these components, 83% of costs will yield direct
benefits to the urban poor, ranging from 74% in Florianopolis to 83% in Juiz
de Fora and 92% in Natal. These estimates reflect the strong project design
and appraisal orientation toward serving the urban poor.
6.02      Since the appraisal of sub-projects in five cities will be carried
out by SDU and the FSA's, every effort was made to incorporate the staff
of these agencies into the appraisal of the three cities appraised by the
Bank. In this way, Brazilian staff participated in the application (and
in some cases the development) of the procedures described below. In most
cases, the procedures used one similar to the norms and sectoral guidelines
already in use by the FSA's. Guidelines for appraisal and eligibility cri-
teria (see Annex 4) to be used for the remaining cities were prepared by the
mission. They were agreed at negotiations and will be the subject of supple-
mental letters to the Loan Agreement.
Approach to Evaluation
6.03      Because of the many different types of project components included
in this program, it was considered neither feasible nor desirable to adopt
a uniform approach to the evaluation of the different components. The evalu-
ation procedure adopted for this project consisted of two parts:
(a) general principles for eligibility for appraisal; and
(b) specific criteria for acceptance of appraised components.



- 42 -
The general principles used to screen components for eligibility were three-
fold:
(a) the component should be consistent with the city's urban
development strategy;
(b) the component should provide direct benefits to the urban
poor; and
(c) the costs of the component should be recoverable from the
final beneficiaries.
Any component that did not satisfy all of these general principles was elimi-
nated from further consideration unless strong reasons could be demonstrated
for its inclusion on the basis of a subset of the principles. For example,
a sewerage project and two drainage components in Natal were eliminated by the
mission from further consideration because they were located in upper-income
areas and did not have a strong poverty impact. On the other hand, small
community facilities such as health posts that would not fully recover costs
were included in the project because they were located in poverty areas and
would meet critical community needs.
6.04      Specific criteria were applied to decide whether components should
be included for funding and at what level. First, all projects were scru-
tinized on a technical basis to ensure that they would meet their objectives
at lowest cost. Alternative approaches were considered, technical design
standards were reviewed, and, where feasible, a priority ranking of components
was obtained. Second, in almost all cases, an economic and/or a financial
evaluation was performed. Where similar projects had already been funded by
the Bank in Brazil, consistent evaluation criteria were applied. Thus, water
supply components were evaluated according to the criteria used by the North-
east Brazil Water Supply and Sewerage Project, sites and services components
by the criteria for the Brazil Low-Cost Housing and Sites and Services Project,
and urban transport components by the criteria for the Brazil Urban Transport
Project. When evaluation criteria has not previously been established,
procedures were devised by the mission. In each city, integrated upgrading
packages were disaggregated so that the evaluation criteria established for
each subproject type could be established.
6.05      For infrastructure components, an economic evaluation was performed
when an adequate methodology existed for measuring a reasonable proportion
of project benefits: drainage, erosion control, transport, and sites and
services components were subject to economic evaluation. Others, such as
water supply, were evaluated on financial grounds to determine whether they
were financially viable by charges to direct project beneficiaries. In
general, income and employment generation components were subjected to both
financial and economic evaluation. The financial evaluation, generally
consisting of a cash flow projection and a profitability analysis, served to
determine appropriate pricing policies and to verify that the enterprise would
be financially viable and able to pay back the capital costs of the project to
the Urban Development Fund at a positive real interest rate. The economic



- 43 -
evaluation 1/ ensured that all income and employment projects would contribute
productively to the economy as a whole. For example, a fishing cooperative
had to be both financially viable and produce economic benefits through
increases in fish production or decreases in unit costs.
Results of Economic Evaluation
6.06      Table 6.1 presents the internal economic rates of return (internal
financial rates of return for water supply components) estimated according to
the procedures outlined above. The income and employment generation components
are all strongly justified on economic grounds. The high economic rates of
return reflect the large productivity gains that can be expected from inter-
vention in small-scale enterprises. The infrastructure components are also
well strongly justified economically. All components for which an economic
rate of return was estimated have a positive net present value at a discount
rate of 11%. The water supply components are all financially viable and yield
internal financial rates of return in excess of the average interest cost
that will be charged on project funds. This result is important because in
almost all cases the projects will be exclusively in poor areas where most
people will pay minimum tariffs.
B. Urban Poverty Impact
6.07      The urban relative income poverty threshold for Brazil is estimated
to be US$465 (1977) per capita per year. This is a national average and
does not reflect regional differences in prices and consumption patterns,
which can be large in Brazil. Therefore, the poverty income threshold was
recalculated on the basis of the official minimum regional wage which is
corrected for differences in the cost of living between regions. Assuming
an average urban family size of 4.9 persons, the Bank relative income thres-
hold corresponds closely on a national basis to an average family income of
three minimum salaries. This latter threshold is used to define the relative
urban poverty population in the project cities. An area-based definition was
also used to determine target upgrading areas. Poor neighborhoods are defined
to be those in which at least 70% of the families earned an income of three
minimum salaries or less. Poverty area maps then served as a basis for
locating infrastructure projects. Of the total loan amount of US$70 million,
70% (US$49 million) is estimated to be urban poverty lending. Table 6.2
summarizes by city and project the percentage of total benefits expected to go
directly to the urban poor.
1/   Estimating benefits for this type of project is very difficult.  The
best estimates used in this evaluation are based on the experience
of CEBRAE in several states.



- 44 -
Table 6.1: Economic Analysis: Internal Rates of Return
Code         Category                   Florianopolis  Juiz de Fora    Natal
A10  Food Distribution System               47%               85%           56%
A20  Industrial Infrastructure              41%               65%
A30  Technical Assistance to Small
Firms                               74%               -              63%
A40  Technical Assistance & Equip-
ment for Cooperatives               67%                -             28%
A50  Manpower Training                        -              100%           -
B10  Water Supply & Sewerage /a             11%                3%            9%
B20  Septic Systems                        N.E. /b            -             -
B30  Drainage                               12%               -             46%
B40  Transport                              26%               23%           26%
B50  Trash Collection/Disposal             N.E.              N.E.          N.E.
B60  Sites and Services /c                  20%               20%          N.E.
B70  Community Facilities                  N.E.              N.E.          N.E.
B80  Other                                 N.E.                            N.E.
/a   Water supply components are evaluated according to internal financial
rates of return, which represent a minimum estimate of the internal
economic rate of return.
/b   No economic/financial evaluation performed; component scrutinized to
ensure that costs had been minimized.
/c   Sites and services component in Natal only provides lots for poor families
relocated because of other projects, hence, no separate economic analysis
was made.
6.08      Because a large proportion of project costs are devoted to income
and employment generation projects, additional analysis of poverty impact
was devoted to this area. For projects emphasizing the creation of jobs,
the capital cost per job was calculated in accordance with Bank guidelines.
According to the most recent Bank estimates for Brazil, employment creation
is considered to be labor-intensive and, hence, urban poverty-oriented if the
capital cost per job is less than US$12,380. The employment creation compo-
nents in the three cities appraised by the Bank are expected to create 3,900
new jobs in enterprises receiving assistance under the project at an average
cost of US$1,075 per job--well below the urban poverty threshold.



- 45 -
Table 6.2: Poverty Impact, Percentage of Project Benefits Going to Urban Poor
Code          Category                  Florianopolis  Juiz de Fora    Natal
A10  Food Distribution System               85%             85%            85%
A20  Industrial Infrastructure              N.E.            N.E.            -
A30 Technical Assistance to Small
Firms                               83%                           100%
A40 Technical Assistance & Equip-
ment for Cooperatives              100%              -            100%
A50  Manpower Training                       -             100%            -
B10  Water Supply & Sewerage               72%              90%           100%
B20  Septic Systems                        100%              -             -
B30  Drainage                               26%             69%            48%
B40  Transport                             60%              73%            85%
B50  Trash Collection/Disposal             70%              70%           70%
B60  Sites and Services                    100%            100%           100%
B70  Community Facilities                  100%            100%           100%
B80  Other                                 100%              -            100%
Note:   N.E.  =  Not estimated; data insufficient to make meaningful quanti-
tative statements.
6.09      On the other hand, there are a number of components included in this
program that are not focused directly on creating jobs. This is particu-
larly the case with the cooperative enterprise components, which attempt to
strengthen the managerial, marketing, and raw materials supply procedures in
industries employing a large number of poor people. The underlying philosophy
is that additional income generation to poor people is as important as creating
new jobs. Therefore, for such components, which are expected to have their
most important impact by generating additional income for poor people, the
additional increase in value-added by the enterprise that is expected to be
distributed to poor workers was estimated. For the income generation compo-
nents included in the three cities appraised by the Bank, approximately 11,000
poor workers are expected to receive increases in income and fringe benefits
averaging US$450 per year. In addition, 7,700 poor part-time workers will
receive increases in income and fringe benefits averaging US$50 per year.
C. Risks
6.10      Two main risks exist that might reduce the project's effectiveness
in meeting its objectives: risks associated with the preparation and appraisal
of sub-projects in cities not appraised by the Bank and risks associated with
implementation of sub-project components.



- 46 -
6.11      Capacity to Prepare and Appraise Sub-Projects.  The first aspect of
this risk is that the remaining cities might prove incapable of adequately
preparing their sub-projects. Since the remaining cities are similar to those
that have already successfully prepared sub-projects and since the cities will
be supported by the combined resources of SDU and the federal sectoral
agencies, this risk is very small. The second, and more important, aspect is
that SDU, together with the federal sectoral agencies might not be able
to complete the remaining appraisals satisfactorily. The following steps have
been taken to minimize this risk. First, the principles for appraisal (see
Annex 4) were agreed at negotiations and included in a supplemental letter to
the Loan Agreement. Second, procedures have been developed to systematize the
presentation of sub-project packages to SDU in such a way as to formalize and
standardize data requirements and formats. Third, a project review form has
been designed to simplify and standardize the presentation of the results of
technical/economic evaluations carried out by the federal sectoral agencies.
Fourth, both SG/MINTER and federal sectoral agency staff participated in the
Bank appraisal of three cities and became familiar with Bank procedures and
requirements. Finally, the appraisal report for Campina Grande was presented
to the Bank at negotiations and found to be satisfactory except for some
technical details. In the light of these steps and given the considerable
technical expertise available in the federal sectoral agencies, the probability
that the appraisal system will fail is small.
6.12      Implementation Risks.  Since the sub-project package in each city
involves a number of different components to be executed by different agencies,
a risk exists that the sub-project might not be executed efficiently and, more
important, in a coordinated manner. The executing capacity of the local
agencies was appraised in three cities and the mission concluded that the risk
of any individual agency failing to carry out its responsibilities was very
small. However, there is a danger that the sub-project might be jeopardized
by a lack of coordination. The following steps were taken to minimize this
risk. First, a Project Management Unit will be established in each city with
adequate staff and full responsibility to manage sub-project execution.
Second, a series of procedures have been established (including critical path
charts, reporting systems, and conflict resolution procedures) to maximize the
flow of information about sub-project implementation, flag problems at an
early stage, and facilitate the finding and implementing of solutions. Third,
a Local Technical Committee will be formed to facilitate communication among
agencies. Fourth, execution will be supervised closely by the federal sectoral
agencies. Fifth, both SDU and the Bank will pay particular attention to
this area during the first year of supervision.
6.13      Overall, it must be realized that executing a multi-sector, multi-
city project involves a higher degree of risk than simpler projects involving
only one sector or city. The necessity to become involved in Brazil's urban
problems on a significant scale, the importance of assisting federal agencies,
and the relatively high technical and managerial capacities of federal and
local agencies in Brazil provide the justification for accepting the higher
level of risk.



- 47 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      As conditions of loan effectiveness, (a) SG/MINTER will establish,
within the MSC Unit in its Under-Secretariat of Urban Development, an appraisal
group, a supervision group, and a financial management and control group, with
staff acceptable to the Bank in terms of quantity and experience (para. 4.05),
(b) the Borrower will establish an FSA Coordinating Committee (para. 4.01),
(c) SG/MINTER shall have signed the project agreement for one of the project
cities (para. 4.44), (d) the appraisal report for Campina Grande shall have
been accepted by the Bank (para. 4.05).
7.02      At negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a)  SG/MINTER will review its experience with the guidelines
for project evaluation and propose guidelines (revised
if necessary) for application to other CNDU integrated urban
development projects in medium-sized cities by December 31,
1980, review the proposed guidelines with the Bank by March 31,
1981, and by September 30, 1981, present to CNDU for its
approval project appraisal guidelines to be implemented
commencing January 1, 1982 (para. 4.09);
(b)  SG/MINTER will inform the Bank of any major CNDU investments
in cities participating in this project during the project
implementation period, provide information on the impact
of the proposed investment on the Bank project, and offer
the Bank adequate opportunity to comment on the investment
(para. 4.09); 1/
(c)  SG/MINTER will, in the first quarter of each year from 1980
through 1984, inclusive, submit to the Bank for comment
(i) a report on CNPU's activities during the previous year
and (ii) a report on CNDU's non-project integrated urban
development projects for medium-sized cities for the pro-
ceeding year (para. 4.09);
(d)  SG/MINTER will, by July 31, 1980, appraise the four remaining
cities in accordance with the guidelines for appraisal and
eligibility criteria set out in Annex 4 (para. 2.03); and
enter into project agreements with Florianopolis, Juiz de
Fora, and Natal by December 31, 1979, with Campina Grande by
March 31, 1980, and with the remaining four cities by Decem-
ber 31, 1980;
1/   Implementing an investment that, in the Bank's judgment, would have an
adverse effect on the MSC Project would constitute a ground for sus-
pension of disbursements.



- 48 -
(e) SG/MINTER will, by September 30, 1979, establish a monitoring
program that is satisfactory to the Bank; the Government
will ensure the participation of INOR in the monitoring
program (paras. 4.47-4.50);
(f) SG/MINTER will maintain a consolidated project account and
will have all accounts concerning the project audited in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank and shall forward to
the Bank the reports of such audit no later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.14);
(g) SG/MINTER will include in the project agreements with the
states and municipalities such covenants as the Bank may
judge necessary. (Annex 5 contains a draft of a series
of general covenants that must be included for all eight
cities) (para. 4.45);
(h) Disbursement for Florianopolis, Juiz de Fora, and Natal
will be conditional upon (i) the signing of a project
agreement that is acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.44) and
(ii) the hiring of essential staff (project coordinator,
infrastructure manager, employment creation manager, and
financial manager) for the Project Management Units
(para. 4.35); and
(i) Disbursement for cities not appraised by the Bank will
be conditional upon (i) acceptance by the Bank of an appraisal
report prepared by SG/MINTER (para. 1.21), (ii) signing of a
project agreement that is acceptable to the Bank (para.
4.44), and (iii) the hiring of essential staff (project
coordinator, infrastructure manager, employment creation
manager, and financial manager) for the Project Management
Units (para. 4.35).
7.03      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$70 million to the Government of Brazil for a period of 15 years,
including a grace period of three years.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
City-Specific Characteristics
A. Juiz de Fora
1.        Juiz de Fora is situated in the Zona da Mata in the southeast
region of the State of Minas Gerais. Its immediate hinterland specializes
in dairy products and arable crops. The city has paved highway connections
with Brazil's major industrial centers, notably Belo Horizonte (266 km), Rio
de Janeiro (208 km) and Sao Paulo (530 km).  Although the tertiary sector
dominates the employment structure, the city has a long tradition of indus-
trial activity based on the pre-1914 expansion of cotton textiles production.
This expansion reflected the decline of the region's coffee plantations, the
influx of European immigrants, the availability of hydroelectric power,
and railroad links with the country's principal cities. However, Juiz de
Fora failed to diversify its industrial base in subsequent decades and the
local textile industry gradually lost ground to modern, large-scale com-
petitors located in other manufacturing centers. As a result, the tertiary
activities assocated with Juiz de Fora's position as a subregional commercial
center assumed their current prominence. In the 1970s, however, there
appeared indications of an industrial revival following the city's success in
attracting new manufacturing plants to its recently-established industrial
estate. The installation of the large Mendes Junior steel plant is likely to
reinforce the city's locational advantages for modern industry. This success
in generating a rapid and substantial expansion of manufacturing output and
employment distinguishes Juiz de Fora from the majority of cities in the MSC
Program.
2.        Population and Employment.  The population of Juiz de Fora in 1970
was 238,000. Population growth rose from an annual average rate of 3.9% in
the 1950s to 5.8% in the years 1960-70. In view of the marked expansion in
direct manufacturing employment in the medium-term, it is reasonable to assume
that the urban population will continue to grow at the high rate experienced
in the 1960s. On this basis, it is predicted that Juiz de Fora will have an
urban population of 385,000 by 1980 and 468,000 by 1985.
3.        The tertiary sector absorbed 64% of the municipal labor force in
1970, with services (22%) and commerce (10%) as the most important elements.
Secondary activities accounted for 29% of the economically active population,
although civil construction probably represents 40% of this total. Employ-
ment in the "formal" industrial sector (i.e., firms covered by the Industrial
Census) grew at the slow average annual rate of 2% in the period 1960-70.
This rate rose to 6% in 1970-75 and employment expansion will continue as the
new manufacturing establishments located in the city's Industrial District
enter production. These new plants, including the Mendes Junior steel plant,
are expected to increase direct employment by 12,000 jobs. The significance
of this employment creation can be seen from a comparison with the 12,100 jobs
that existed in the city's 677 industrial firms in 1970.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Informal industrial activities are also important in Juiz de Fora,
comprising small-scale units (micro-empresas) operating clandestinely, as
well as self-employed and household workers. These units are concentrated
in the clothing sector, particularly knitwear (malharia), and frequently
survive by subcontracting finishing work from legally-established firms.
These industrial activities, which in some cases involve the use of extremely
low-paid, "sweated labor," complement the more typical range of informal
sector employment found in personal services and petty commerce.
5.        Urban Poverty.  Census data on family incomes reveal that 69%
of all families--30,100 households--had incomes below three minimum wages in
1970. Families in this category are defined as being in urban poverty
according to Bank guidelines.
6.        Housing and Infrastructure Access.  The 1970 Census data suggest
that substandard housing is not an acute problem in Juiz de Fora. In terms
of the quality of construction and the building materials used, 92% of all
urban dwellings are defined as "permanent, durable units." A 1977 survey
of 35 poor neighborhoods (bairros) in Juiz de Fora with 24,000 families
indicated that serious problems have not yet arisen from the physical condi-
tions of housing. The phenomenon of favela housing is of very recent origin
in Juiz de Fora and the present municipal administration is anxious to re-
strict this incipient growth. On the other hand, the urban population faces
serious difficulties in terms of access to urban infrastructure: 60% of
all households lack main water supply and 30% lack main sewerage. The lack
of infrastructure is much more pronounced in the poor neighborhoods and the
1977 survey indicated that 12 of the 35 bairros were entirely outside the
main water supply system. These poor bairros are also characterized by low
levels of infrastructure provision in terms of primary education, health
clinics and hospital services, surface drainage and paving, communications,
and areas for leisure and recreation.
7.        Urban Development Problems and Proposed Strategy.  The urban de-
velopment issues identified by the present municipal administration arise
principally from the projected rapid growth of the city's population from
218,000 to 385,000 in the period 1970-85. The municipal government intends to
control this process in an attempt to avoid the urban development problems
commonly experienced in larger urban centers. Specifically, the general
objective is to avoid "disequilibria" which give rise to distorted patterns of
urban land use and severe socio-economic problems. The latter comprise
widespread low income employment, the proliferation of substandard, improvised
housing, inadequate infrastructure provision, and other characteristic fea-
tures of urban poverty. The principal economic objective is to consolidate
and reinforce the recent revival of the city's industrial sector associated
with the success of the Industrial District. Maintenance of a dynamic indus-
trial base and the concomitant expansion of productive employment opportuni-
ties, both direct and indirect, is regarded as a central aim of urban develop-
ment strategy in Juiz de Fora. The revival of the city's economic base also
is seen as an important source of resources, which will enhance local fiscal
autonomy in the medium-term. In addition to formal sector employment genera-
tion, the strategy also involves programs to support the activities of small
producers and micro-empresas, including technical assistance, credit, and
the creation of special industrial estates.



51 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Socio-economic objectives that will complement employment creation
comprise the elimination of "deficits" in infrastructure provision and urban
services. Apart from the extension of water, sewerage, and refuse collection
systems, current program proposals include primary school construction, pre-
school education, and public health clinics in low income areas. The present
municipal government gives great emphasis to the avoidance of improvised
favela settlements and is seeking to channel the low income population with
inadequate housing towards areas of urbanized lots.
9.        In terms of spatial development objectives, the current strategy
involves programs to reinforce the economic and social structure of the
city's main development axis, namely, the north-south "corridor" formed by
the Paraibuna River valley.  Settlement is strongly concentrated in this
valley and location of the Industrial District in Benfica in the northern
zone, roughly 20 km from the downtown area of Juiz de Fora, will accentuate
this linear pattern.  Complementary programs to encourage higher density
settlement in the river valleys formed by tributaries of the Paraibuna will
be introduced.
10.       Rationale for the Project.  The main thrust of the project package
emerges clearly in the emphasis given to infrastructure provision and small-
scale industrial development. The set of urban infrastructure project clearly
reflects the overall strategy to reduce deficits in urban service provision,
notably in lower income areas. The water supply project extends the mains
system to an additional 72,000 inhabitants, roughly 25% of the city's total
population. The refuse collection project also will extend coverage into the
poorer, peripheral areas of the city. Poor families are the target group for
the sites and services project. The initial site will involve 800-1,000
serviced lots in a central area; two subsequent projects are planned for areas
close to the new Industrial District. The Pre-School Project--food distribu-
tion via the construction of pre-school centers with classrooms and canteen
facilities--is intended to reach mothers and pre-school age children in low
income households in order to reduce malnutrition and disseminate information
concerning nutrition and hygiene. It is expected to have 6,000 direct bene-
ficiaries during the initial three-year period. The Community Health project
involves the construction of health posts, staffed by a doctor, a dentist, and
a nurse, in low income areas. This extended public health coverage will
benefit an estimated population of 47,000.
11.       The small-scale industrial development project will provide infra-
structural and institutional assistance in order to place these informal,
often clandestine activities on a more secure footing. In this respect,
the project is consistent with the strategy of permanent employment creation,
particularly insofar as it brings greater stability to these activities and
enhances their potential for future expansion. (It is estimated that the
informal manufacturing sector in Juiz de Fora currently employs roughly 7,000
workers, including family members, principally in the clothing and knitwear
branches.) Access to more stable, higher income employment opportunities
for currently unskilled workers is also the main objective of the manpower
training project. Finally, poorer households are the intended beneficiaries
of the project to improve retail distribution systems extending cost reduc-
tions due to bulk food purchasing to roughly 120 retail establishments, whose
owners are required to pass on these savings to consumers.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.       Finally, it is intended to improve the administrative and technical
capacity of the municipal planning agency, IPPLAN, by financing the formation
of a MSC Project Management Unit of 10 professional staff members during the
implementation phase of the CNPU/IBRD program. This unit subsequently will be
incorporated into the permanent structure of IPPLAN. In the medium-term, this
infusion of professional staff into IPPLAN is expected to raise the efficacy
of municipal planning systems, as well as general standards of local adminis-
tration. This project thus represents an explicit commitment to the improve-
ment of the capacity of local agencies to diagnose and resolve local urban
development programs.
B. Florianopolis
13.       Florianopolis is a subregional center, which performs the politico-
administrative functions associated with its role as capital of the state of
Santa Catarina. The city also exercises a wide range of commercial activities
and specialized service functions, including higher education. The vigorous
expansion of the macro-regional metropolitan center of Curitiba and Porto
Alegre, as well as the recent growth of interior towns such as Blumenau, Join-
ville, and Lajes, has restricted the influence exerted by Florianopolis over
economic activities within the state. This relative decline, within a tradi-
tional, predominantly small-scale industrial sector emphasizes the importance
attached to programs to diversify the economic base of this micro-region.
Florianopolis is situated on the Ilha de Santa Catarina and is connected by
bridge to the mainland municipality of Sao Jose, forming a single conurbation.
With the paving of the coastal highway (BR-101) and property speculation on
Santa Catarina Island, the physical expansion of the city has been concen-
trated in Sao Jose and has extended into the other mainland municipalities
of Biguacu and Palhoca.
14.       Population and Employment.  The 1970 population of the municipality
of Florianopolis was 138,000 and the urban agglomeration had 227,000 inhabi-
tants. Recent population growth has been relatively stable, with an average
annual rate for Florianopolis of about 3.5% in the 1950s and 1960s. The
urban agglomeration grew at 4.2% in the period 1960-70, reflecting the con-
straints on urban settlement in the capital municipality imposed by more
rigid land use legislation and rising property values. Tertiary activities
accounted for 74% of the Florianopolis labor force in 1970. This can be
attributed partly to formal or "modern" source of employment, such as the
creation of the Federal University of Santa Catarina, the proliferation of
state government agencies, and increased tourism, but a significant proportion
of tertiary employment growth has occurred in the informal sector due to the
decline or stagnation of primary and secondary activities. IPUF estimates for
the period 1960-77 indicate an absolute decline in secondary employment in the
capital municipality, whereas the size of the tertiary sector labor force more
than doubled.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
15.       Urban Poverty.  Census data on family incomes for 1970 indicate that
5% of all households had monetary income of up to one minimum wage and a
further 33% received between one and three minimum wages. A 1977 household
survey by GEIPOT estimated that 38% of all families in the agglomerated area
and 33% in the capital municipality had incomes of less than three minimum
wages. This category includes 19,000 and 11,000 families in these two areas,
respectively.
16.       Housing and Infrastructure Access.  Although concentrations of
substandard dwellings are found in the Florianopolis area, improvised,
favela-type housing is not a severe problem. Florianopolis does not suffer
from the situation in which substandard dwellings form immense favelas on
the periphery of the city. Both the 1970 Census and a 1977 GEIPOT survey
indicate that 84% of all urban dwellings are "permanent, durable units."
The position is far more serious in terms of infrastructure provision. In
1970, 32% of all households in the agglomerated area lacked mains water
supply and 82% lacked mains sewerage. The water supply situation has deter-
iorated since then. The lack of mains sewerage provision is particularly
acute as the present limited system serves only a small area in the city
center and is deteriorating rapidly. In the low income bairros, it is
estimated that roughly 40% of the area has access to mains water supply.
Nineteen percent of households use septic tanks and the remainder rely on
more primitive forms of sewage disposal. The poor bairros also have low
service in terms of surface drainage, street paving, pre-school education,
street lighting, and recreational facilities.
17.       Urban Development Strategy.  The Florianopolis agglomeration has
limited growth potential for its primary and secondary sectors. More dynamic
industrial centers, such as Blumenau and Joinville, are likely to consolidate
their position, restricting manufacturing activities in Florianopolis to
small-scale enterprises in food processing, clothing, furniture, construction
materials and wood products. With this perspective, the Development Plan
for Florianopolis identifies the tertiary sector, notably commerce and politico-
administrative services, as the principal source of new employment generation.
The objective is to consolidate Florianopolis as the specialized tertiary
center of the Santa Catarina coastal region, minimizing its dependence in
terms of commerce and service on the regional metropolitan centers, by pur-
suing the exploitation of the region's potential for tourism and the installa-
tion of federal and macro-regional organizations. Further measures comprise
more vigorous industrial promotion policies, including consolidation of the
present industrial estate in Sao Jose, and the reorganization of small-
scale firms supplying inputs for the building and construction sector.
These programs are intended to create 5,000 new jobs annually until 1983.
The plan's social objectives involve providing better access to the supply
of basic services, notably through extension of the main water system and
sewerage facilities to the urban poor.
18.       Rationale for the Project.  The project set shows a strong emphasis
on urban infrastructure with surface drainage, water supply, transport, and
sites and services as the main subprograms. The surface drainage project



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
forms an initial phase of a Drainage Master Plan for the agglomerated area
of Florianopolis. The water supply project involves the extension of the
mains system and household connections in low income areas. This project will
be undertaken in conjunction with parallel programs to install septic tanks.
The target population for these projects is estimated at 50,000 beneficiaries.
A lagoon sewerage project forms part of the strategy to promote tourism, aims
to prevent pollution of a major tourist attraction and shrimp fishing area.
The refuse collection project seeks to overcome the deficiencies of this
service by extending and integrating individual municipal collection and
disposal systems. Low income households constitute the target group of the
sites and services project, which will utilize labor organized in community
self-help schemes following the initial infrastructure works. The transport
subprogram is focused on upgrading roads that have heavy public transport
usage.
19.       The strategy in the industrial sector is (a) to consolidate the
existing industrial estate through infrastructural improvements, and (b) to
improve the efficiency activities of small enterprises and micro-empresas.
An important segment of the industrial sector in Florianopolis comprises
small establishments supply inputs for civil construction, such as bricks,
metal and cement structures, wood products. The micro-empresa project will
strengthen these firms by technical assistance and training schemes for
owners and workers. An estimated 4,000 will benefit directly from this
project. Other projects to reinforce productive activities in the Floriano-
polis micro-region include the formation of cooperatives for small-scale
fishing enterprises, independent fishernen and milk producers. These proj-
ects will increase earnings for small, poor producers and increase production
and distribution of products that are staple items in the diet of low-income
families. Finally, two smaller projects involve the promotion and reorganiza-
tion of handicraft activities and the formation of an association of self-
employed laundry workers. The aims of the latter project include the exten-
sion of social welfare programs to these "informal" workers, training courses
and schemes to facilitate access to the use and acquisition of equipment.
20.       The various subprograms which form the IPUF strategy in the social
services sector are directed explicitly towards the low income population in
order to achieve higher levels of access. Urban expansion has not been
accompanied by concomitant school building programs and in certain poor
bairros schools are overcrowded and inadequate. The project involves the
construction of new schools with a combined capacity of 4,680 pupils in
the 7-14 years age group. This program will be complemented by a pre-school
program of education, health care, and nutrition for about 2,250 children
from low-income families, a project to establish creches in low-income areas,
and the establishment of a refectory serving simple, nutritionally-balanced
meals at cost to about 2,000 low income workers in the central area.
21.       To improve municipal administration and finance, the project would
include a project management unit and a cadastral survey, the latter being
expected to result in a substantial increase in property tax revenue.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
C. Natal
22.       Natal, the capital of the state of Rio Grande do Norte, is a
coastal subregional center, which exercises politico-administrative functions
and commercial, financial, and distributive activities for its rural hinter-
land. These teritary activities dominate the local economic base as the
industrial sector comprises mainly traditional branches, notably textiles
and food processing. In addition to improvements in the provision of social
infrastructure, measures to diversify the local economy and generate employ-
ment growth will be needed if the city is to meet MSC program objectives to
absorb migrants productively and reduce on-migration to regional metropolitan
centers, such as Recife and Salvador.
23.       Population and Employment.  The city of Natal had 264,000 inhabi-
tants in 1970, and 344,000 in 1975, according to intercensal estimates. Popu-
lation growth in the city has accelerated since 1950, increasing at annual
rates of 4.7% in the 1950s, 5.0% in 1960s and 5.4% from 1970 to 1975. In
1970, 40% of the population was 14 years old or under. Migration studies
based on the 1960 and 1970 Census returns classify Natal as a micro-region
of "moderate urban in-migration." In 1970, migrants represented 17% of the
total population of Natal. Primary activities represent 4% of Natal's
employment in 1970. Secondary activities employed 18% of the labor force
(of which civil construction was 9%) and the tertiary sector absorbed 78%
of the active population in 1970, with commerce (16%), services (24%),
transport and communications (7%), social services (11%) and public adminis-
tration (14%). These data emphasize the lack of diversification of Natal's
urban economy and the marked reliance on tertiary sources for employment
growth.
24.       Urban Poverty.  On the basis of 1970 census data, a situation of
severe and endemic poverty clearly emerges for Natal. An estimated 21% of
all urban families in Natal subsisted on less than Cr$100 per month in 1970,
which is below the individual poverty level. A further 34% of all urban
households have monthly incomes of one-half or less than the family poverty
income level, emphasizing that severe deprivation is widespread in Natal.
Finally, the Bank guideline definition of "low income families" as those
with incomes below three minimum wages embraces 70% of all households in
Natal.
25.       Housing and infrastructure data indicate that 84% of all dwellings
can be defined as permanent, durable structures. However, this ratio had
fallen sharply to 62% by 1977 and the incidence of improvised, substandard
dwellings is much greater in low income bairros. A survey conducted in
1977 in the poor areas of Natal, defined as those with average family
incomes under three minimum wages, identified over 9,000 shacks in 17 bairros,
concentrated in 26 favelas. In short, Natal faces an acute housing problem.
Urban infrastructure shows similar patterns. According to 1970 Census data,
63% of all urban households have access to mains water supply and only 12%
have mains sewerage connection. Water supply systems in the 17 poor bairros



- 56 -                        ANNEX I
Page 8
are described as "precarious" and six of these areas lack mains systems com-
pletely. The situation is even more serious in terms of sewerage services
since only one poor bairro (Rocas) of those surveyed had access to the mains
system. This evidence of restricted infrastructure provision, combined with
improvised housing and low family incomes, emphasizes the generalized, endemic
character of urban poverty in Natal. A similar picture of inadequate provi-
sion also emerges for public health care, primary education, refuse collection
and street paving in low-income neighborhoods.
26.       Urban Development Problems and Proposed Strategy.  The major urban
problems in Natal can be summarized as widespread, low-income employment and
pronounced deficits in the provision of basic urban infrastructure and ade-
quate housing. The Development Strategy presented for the CNPU/IBRD/MSC
program identifies three basic objectives: (a) the creation of conditions
that permit the absorption of the labor force available in Natal and the
consequent increase of levels of family income, (b) the provision of basic
services, and (c) the upgrading of the capacities of state and municipal
governments to undertake actions required to promote the development of the
city. Emphasis is given to measures to strengthen informal sector activities
(micro-empresas) in a wide range of sectors.
27.       The Development Strategy proposes to improve living standards
through the supply of service areas where the greatest concentrations of
low-income populations occur, specifically the extension of water and sewer-
age systems and improvements in transport, health, education, and recreational
facilities. A more efficient and hygienic distribution system for foodstuffs
in Natal is also a goal.
28.       The strategy also notes the necessity of improving the administra-
tive capacity of state and municipal agencies.
29.       Rationale for the Project.  The strategy presented in the Develop-
ment Plan for Natal suffers from an excessively general approach, which is
evident in weaknesses in the relations between program objectives and projects
instruments. The main strategic deficiency is the absence of a coherent,
detailed program to diversify the urban economy of Natal in order to acceler-
ate income and employment generation in the modern secondary and tertiary
sectors. While the programs to reorganize and promote handicrafts, small-
scale firms, and fishing activities will undoubtedly have positive income
and employment effects, complementary programs are needed in the modern and
"informal" sectors simultaneously if the city is to achieve significant suc-
cess in reducing low-income employment. A preliminary project proposal
to establish an industrial estate was not accepted in the absence of a program
of careful management and vigorous promotion. Such a program would be needed
for this initiative to have a substantial impact on the employment situation.
This deficiency was discussed with local planning agencies and will form the
basis for continued dialogue during project implementation. In the area of
infrastructure and urban services, the project includes components to extend
water and sanitation facilities to the poor population in an attempt to reduce
one of Natal's major deficiencies. The urban administration will be strength-
ened through training programs and improved equipment, as well as through the
operation of the project management unit.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Appraisal of Campina Grande Subproject
Background
1.        Campina Grande is located 120 km from the coast in the transitional
zone between the humid coastal area and the arid sertao, and is the educa-
tional and cultural center of the interior of the Northeast. The city also
serves as a commercial center and distribution point for raw materials not
only for the state of Paraiba but also for the neighboring states of Piaui,
Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco, and Bahia as well. The tertiary sector, espe-
cially education, health, and mechanical services, dominates the employment
structure of Campina Grande--in 1976, the value of tertiary sector produc-
tion was three times that of the secondary sector. In the secondary sector,
rapid growth is occurring in the food processing industry. The metal-working,
mineral, and chemical industries are also expanding. Although Campina
Grande is one of the six major textile producing areas of Brazil, textile
production declined by 35% between 1970 and 1976. Campina Grande's hinter-
land produces sisal, manioc, corn, beans, cotton, beef, and dairy products.
2.        Population and Employment.  The population of Campina Grande in
1977 was 205,000. Population growth has slowed in relative terms from 4.8%
in the 1950s to 3.4% in the 1960s. In 1977, over 41% of the population was
under 15 years of age. In 1978, migrants, mostly from other urban centers,
made up approximately 14% of the city's population. The migrants work
primarily in civil construction (30%), services (26%), and agricul-
ture (18%).
3.        Tertiary sector activities provided employment for 78% of the
economically active population in 1977; of this group, approximately 60% were
involved in commerce. The secondary sector provided employment for 21% of
the economically active population, principally in metal industries, textile
production and food processing. Unemployment in 1978 was estimated at 5.2%
while underemployment reached 55%. The situation is much worse among the
population of the favelas, where unemployment is estimated at over 45%.
4.        Urban Poverty.  Income data for Campina Grande suggest that urban
poverty is a pervasive phenomenon--56% of the population has a monthly family
income of less than three minimum wages. Two categories were identified
within this group: those with family incomes of between one and three min-
imum wages (living in "poor areas"), who accounted for 41% of the population
and those with family incomes of less than one minimum wage (living in favela
areas), who make up 15% of the population.
5.        Housing and Infrastructure Access.  For Campina Grande as a whole,
nine percent of all housing in 1978 was classified as low standard and 11%
was substandard. In the "poor areas" 29% was low standard and eight percent



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
subnormal; in the favelas, all the housing is classified as substandard.
Almost 60% of all housing is owner-occupied; about 30% is rented.
6.        Infrastructure provision is seriously deficient in the "poor
areas" and favelas of Campina Grande. Thirty one percent of the households
in "poor areas" and 73% of favela dwellers have no mains water supply.
Only 6% of the households of "poor areas" have mains sewer connections; no
sewer service is offered to favela dwellers. This situation has been partly
remedied by the use of pit latrines, used by 59% of the residents of "poor
areas" and 27% of favela dwellers; the remaining households rely on more
primitive forms of sewage disposal. Surface drainage serves only 19% of
the families in poor areas and less than 1% in the favelas. In the "poor
areas" and favelas together, there is a shortage of 32 classrooms and less
than 1% of children are served by creches. There are no hospitals or
health posts.
7.        Urban Development Strategy.  The informal sector is of great im-
portance to the economy of Campina Grande not only because of the historic
role it has played but because it is the most rapidly growing sector. An
estimated 56% of the economically active population was employed in the in-
formal sector in 1978. A striking feature is the rapid growth of informal
industrial activities, which grew over twice as fast as formal industrial
activities from 1960 to 1978.
8.        The urban development strategy of Campina Grande, therefore, is
to develop the potential of the informal sector and thus meet the basic
needs of the population through employment and income generation. The close
relationship between the formal and informal sectors is taken into account and
the urban development strategy calls for intervention in both sectors. Those
informal industrial sector activities with greater potential, such as the
processing of leather, wood, and food products, would be stressed, not only
because they rely on local raw material inputs but also because the finished
products are used by low-income people. To further the growth of the in-
formal sector, a special effort would be made to eliminate bottlenecks
between the two sectors and ensure that formal sector projects act as a
catalyst for activities in the informal sector.
9.        In addition to the development of the city itself, the strategy for
Campina Grande has a regional emphasis; proposed projects should, as far as
possible, have linkages to the hinterland (through the supply of materials
or the demand for products) so that they generate urban-regional multiplier
effects.
10.       The proposed physical and social interventions are complementary
to those that will support productive activities. The latter aim to in-
crease incomes both directly and indirectly; the former should increase
the indirect transfer of income through the provision of facilities for
health, education, recreation, sanitary infrastructure, transport, and
housing.



- 59 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.       The economic and  social infrastructure projects include
activity centers, through which a link can be established between services
to informal productive activities (e.g., raw materials, machines, technical
assistance) and social services, such as food supply, education, recreation,
and health.
Main Features of the Project
12.       The subproject stresses income and employment generation as well as
urban and community infrastructure provision. The basic concept of the strategy
is reflected in the sub-project components in which both aspects are given
equal importance. Intervention in the informal economic sector would re-
inforce the importance of the sector for the generation of employment and
income, investing in both industrial and artisan activities. This assistance
would take the form of providing adequate working space, technical and mana-
gerial assistance, and manpower training. Physical infrastructure invest--
ments would provide low-income people with water supply, sewerage, drainage,
electricity, transportation, and community facilities. All of these invest-
ments will be located in "poor areas" or favelas and are compatible with the
Campina Grande Urban Development Plan. Municipal administration projects
to assist in the management of the project facilitate the collection of
municipal taxes, and improve the information system necessary for planning
include the creation of a project management unit, an aero-photogrammetrical
survey,and a corresponding base map to be used for property valuation
and taxation purposes.
Detailed Features
13.       Food Distribution System (A10).  This component comprises the adop-
tion of the national Cadeias Voluntarias (Voluntary Chain) scheme for the
centralized purchasing and distribution to retailers of basic foodstuffs in
poor areas. The component includes the central warehouse, transport, plus
managerial assistance to the small retailers. Over six hundred retailers
in Campina Grande and its hinterland will be involved, serving about 24,000
poor families. In addition, this component will include the introduction of
open-air markets in three poor neighborhoods and a study of the operation of
the existing central market.
14.       Mechanical Services District (A20).  This component includes the
construction of a small industrial district to house about 150 small mecha-
nical firms that are being driven out of the central area by rising land
prices. The site will provide better facilities to the firms while maintain-
ing the current synergistic relationships between them. The district would
serve a regional function since nearly 50% of the vehicles serviced come
from outside Campina Grande. The district would also include spare parts
shops, a mechanics' training center, and a towing service. By relocating
this activities, this component will also relieve traffic congestion and
facilitate urban renewal in the center of Campina Grande.



- 60-                          ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.       Assistance to Small Firms (A30).  Through the creation of activity
centers, this component would provide a range of services and assistance to
small firms, concentrating on the clothing, woodworking, leatherworking,
laundry, and carting sectors. The activity centers would offer work-space,
machines rented by the hour, centralized purchasing of raw materials,
training, technical and managerial assistance, and merchandising of
products.
16.       Water Supply and Sewage (B10).  The city's water distribution
network will be extended into the four "poor areas" of the city, the three
favelas, and to the sites and services project. Standpipes will be provided
in the favelas and the sites and services project for those who cannot afford
a house connection. About 34,000 people will be served. The existing sewer
network will be extended in one of the "poor areas" and financing for sewer
connections will be provided there and in two other poor areas , where the
sewer network already exists. Over 40,000 people will be provided with
sanitary facilities.
17.       Drainage (B30).  Macro-drainage systems will be installed in two
lipoor areas" to complement the existing surface drainage. This subproject
complements the roadworks under the transport subproject and is required
for one of the activity centers. A micro-drainage system will be constructed
in the Jeremias favela to complement the transport project. Over 5,000
people will benefit from improved drainage.
18.       Transport (B40).  This component includes paving of bus routes,
signs, and bus shelters in the "poor areas" and favelas.  Over 90,000 bus
passengers will benefit.
19.       Sites and Services/Septic Systems (B60).  This subproject includes
the improvement of housing in the favela areas (Pedregal, Jeremias and
Cachoeira), legalization of tenure (1,432 lots), construction of 1,479
sanitary units with pit latrines or bathrooms with water connections. The
subproject also includes the relocation of 305 families from the favelas
to serviced sites in Nova Area. They will be offered the choice of six
alternatives for sanitation and housing to be selected according to income.
20.       Community Facilities (B70).  This component includes community
centers (to be integrated with the activity centers providing assistance to
small firms), six primary schools providing 2,400 new places, five health
posts serving 30,000 people,I/ two creches, and headquarters for three
neighborhood associations.
21.       Electricity (B80).  About 16,060 meters of new electricity network
will be installed, together with improvements where necessary to the existing
netowrk. This will make possible the extension of service to about 53,000
people.
1/ Where appropriate, the health posts are included in the community centers.



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Cost Estimates
22.       Cost estimates have been produced using the same approach and tech-
niques as for the projects in the other cities (see Section III).  The cost
estimates of individual project components for the Campina Grande subproject
are set out in Table 1. Procurement, disbursement, and the proposed financing
plan will follow the procedures set out in Section 3 of the appraisal report.
Financial Impact on the City's Finances
23.       This section was inadequately dealt with in the Appraisal Report.
It will be re-done in the next version.
Implementation Arrangements
24.       Seven municipal agencies, one state agency, and one private community
agency will be involved in the execution of sub-project components. Overall
responsibility for project coordination and execution will be the responsi-
bility of the Campina Grande Urban Development Company (COMDECA)--an agency
of the Prefeitura. The specific responsibilities of the other agencies are
shown in Table 1. These agencies have relatively little experience of
working together. To overcome this problem a regular seminar has been estab-
lished to bring together the heads of the executing agencies to review prob-
lems and resolve difficulties, especially of coordination. A project manage-
ment unit will also be established. (The appraisal report did not contain
sufficient details on the project management unit or the mechanisms for co-
ordination (e.g., local coordinating committee). Clarification has been
requested.
Cost Recovery
25.       Direct cost recovery from project beneficiaries was instituted in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Full cost recovery to the Municipal Urban
Development Fund (FMDU) will be attained for the food distribution system,
industrial infrastructure, water supply and sewerage, sites and services,
and electricity distribution subprojects. In addition, costs of the tech-
nical assistance project will be recovered on the basis of CEBRAE national
standards. No direct cost recovery is possible for transport and community
facility projects (with the exception of creches). Further indirect cost
recovery through property taxes will be possible due to the cadastral survey
subproject, which will significantly increase the revenue base of the city.
Affordability
26.       Affordability for project components was assessed according to
various Brazilian government standards. Monthly charges for water and
sewer will equal 5.7% of one minimum salary, less than the 7% maximum charge
established by Brazilian law. Monthly charges for electricity will equal
3% of one minimum salary. Both these projects are affordable to families
earning less than one minimum salary. For the sites and services and slum
upgrading sub-projects, special efforts were made to increase the afford-
ability of the project for very low income groups. Five different alter-
natives for sanitation and basic housing were designed, including water



BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 1: CAMPINA GRANDE SUBPROJECT COSTS (Cr$'OOO)
Construction &                     Technical                          Physical
Design      Land     Supervision        Equipment      Assistance        Subtotal        Contingency          Total
A10  Food Distribution System       4,480.4      -         15,502.5           6,630.2          500.0          27,113.1        2,368.9             29,482.0
A20  Industrial Infrastructure         -       7,720.0    61,950.0            1,349.0          -              71,019.0       10,652.9             81,671.9.
A31 Technical Assistance and Equip-
ment for Small Firms (NAI)   -            -          6,625.0          1,567.0        8,183.1           16,375.1        2,456.3             18,831.4
A32 Technical Assistance and Equip-
ment for Small Firms (SINE)  -            -          1,692.8             891.3        5,271.4           7,855.5          -                  7,855.5
B10  Water Supply & Sewerage           -         -         64,308.0             -              -              64,308.0        6,430.8             70,738.8
B30  Drainage                          275.7     -         13,498.0             -              -              13,773.7        2,066.1             15,839.8
B40  Transport                         -         -         31,064.3             -              -              31,064.3        4,660.0             35,724.3
B60  Sites & Services/Septic                                                                                                                                                N
Systems                        542.0  13,858.3    15,301.3              -            1,407.0           31,108.6        4,666.3             35,774.9
B71  Health Posts                       38.9     240.0      2,383.2             923.6          -               3,585.7           358.6             3,944.3
B72  Primary Schools                   141.8   1,080.0      4,578.6             972.7          -               6,773.1           677.3             7,450.4
B73  Child Care Centers                44.3      -            867.8             280.5          -               1,192.7           119.3             1,311.9
B77  Activity Centers/Squares       1,195.9   5,760.0       3,542.0             -              -              10,497.9        1,049.8             11,547.7
B78  Neighborhood Societies           -          -            269.9             -              -                 269.9            13.5               283.4
B90  Electricity                       -         -         14,681.7             -              -              14,681.7        2,202.2             16,883.9
CIO  Project Management Unit          -          -            -               1,536.0       19,088.0          20,624.0          -                 20,624.0
C30  Cadastral Survey                 -          -            -               1.540.0        9.646.0          11.186.0           -                11.186.0
Subtotal                     6,719.1  30,065.2   236,265.1           15,690.3       42,688.5          331,428.2       37,721.9           369,150.0
Price Contingency                                                                                                                          73.830.0
TOTAL                                                                                                                                    442,980.0
a'
N



63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
standpipes and pit latrines for the very poorest families. Using BNH rules
that total housing costs should not exceed 9% of total family income, the
lowest alternatives for land tenure and upgrading are affordable by fami-
lies earning less than one minimum salary.
Replicability
27.       Eighty percent of total costs will be recovered over fifteen
years to the FMDU established by this project in Campina Grande. This will
allow the municipality to fund similar development projects in future years
as these funds increase.
Project Justification
28.       The project in Campina Grande was evaluated according to the
Guidelines for Appraisal and Eligibility Criteria (see Annex 4). As with
the previous cities included in the project, an economic and/or financial
evaluation of each major subproject was performed to determine its eligi-
bility for inclusion according to Bank criteria. Least cost solutions were
determined, appropriate cost recovery mechanisms identified, and the urban
poverty lending component of each subproject estimated. Internal rates of
return and poverty impact were estimated for project components totaling 83%
of project costs in Campina Grande. The overall internal rate of return
is estimated to be 27%. Eighty one percent of these project costs
will generate benefits directly to the urban poor.
Results of Economic Evaluation
29.       The approach to economic evaluation of project subcomponents in
Campina Grande is similar to that used in the cities appraised by the Bank.
Table     presents the internal economic rates of return (internal financial
rates of return for water supply and sewer components) for Campina Grande.
The projects are all justified according   to the eligibility criteria
established by the Bank. All components for which an economic rate of
return was estimated have a positive net present value at a discount rate of
11%, which is estimated to represent the opportunity cost of capital in Bra-
zil. The water supply and sewer component is financially viable and yields
an internal financial rate of return in excess of the average interest cost
that will be charged on project funds.
Table 2:   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS:  INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN FOR
CAMPINA GRANDE SUB-PROJECT
A10  Food Distribution Systems                          78%
A20  Industrial Infrastructure                          20%
A30  Technical Assistance to Small Firms                86%
B1O  Water Supply and Sewerage                           4%
B30  Drainage                                           30%
B40  Transport                                          36%
B60  Sites and Services                                 16%
B90  Electricity Distribution                           12%



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8
Urban Poverty Impact
30.       The estimated proportion of project benefits going directly to
the urban poor is given in Table 3.   Following guidelines established by
CNPU and the Bank, the majority of projects in Campina Grande were tar-
geted explicitly into poor areas.  Because of this, the proportion of
project benefits going to the urban poor is very high in almost all cases.
In addition the technical assistance to small informal sector firms pro-
vided in the project is expected to create 700 new jobs at an average
capital cost per job (including technical assistance and credit) of
US$ 700.
Table  3:    POVERTY IMPACT:  PERCENTAGE OF PROJECT BENEFITS
GOING TO URBAN POOR
A10  Food Distribution Systems                          75%
A20  Industrial Infrastructure                          85%
A30  Technical Assistance for Small Firms              100%
B10  Water Supply and Sewerage                         100%
B30  Drainage                                          100%
B40  Transport                                          70%
B60  Sites and Services                                100%
B80  Community Facilities                              100%
B90  Electricity Distribution                          100%



- 65 -
BRAZIL                                     MRI~~~~~~~~ANEX 3
BRAZIL                                                    Pave 1
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS
(CR $ '000)
Construction
and                   Technical                 Physical
Code              Category                  Design    Land    Supervision   Equipment  Assistance  Subtotal   Contingency             Total
FLORIANOPOLIS
A10  Food Distribution System                  850      1,500      10,500         6,500       -          19,350        1,050         20,400
A20  Industrial Infrastructure                 -          -        25,555           -         -          25,555        3,833         29,388
A30  TA to Small Firms                         -          -           -             -      7,594          7,594           -           7,594
A41  TA & Equip. for Fish Cooperative          794        -         2,400         5,543    2,020         10,757           360        11,117
A42  TA & Equip. for Milk Cooperative          672        300       3,232         8,616    3,113         15,933          485         16,418
A43  Survey of Artisans                        -          -           -             -      3,000          3,000           -           3,000
A44  TA & Equip. for Launderers' Assn          276        950       2,500           385      864          4,975          375          5,350
B10  Water Supply (and Sewerage)             1,300      2,240     46,779            -        -           50,319        4,678         54,997
B20  Septic Systems                             40        -        17,289           -        -           17,329        1,729         19,058
B30  Drainage                                  -        8,700     53,300            -      5,000         67,000        2,665         69,665
B40  Transport                               2,489      5,140     28,241         2,172       -           38,042        2,824         40,866
B50  Garbage Collection/Disposal               150      3,000       2,500        8,800    1,550          16,000          375         16,375
B60  Sites & Services                        1,231      6,720     18,620         4,896       -           31,467        2,793         34,200
B71  Health Posts                              314      1,080      3,136          1,270      -            5,800          314          6,114
B72  Primary Schools                           972    11,860       11,020         1,942      -           25,795          551         26,345
B73  Child Care Centers                        600      1,500      6,600          1,800      -           10,500          660         11,160
B74  Nurseries                                 200        500      2,388            273    3,839          7,200          239          7,439
B75  Workers' Lunchroom                        -          -         2,170        3,030       -            5,200          326          5,526
B80  Hillsides                                 350        -        3,550            -        -            3,900          533          4,433
C10  Project Management Unit                   -          -           -             -     26,735         26,735          -           26,735
C20  Administrative Improvements               -          -           -             -      6,000          6,000          -            6,000
C30  Cadastral Surveys                         -          -           -             -     10,000         10,000        2,000         12,000
C40  Special Studies                         6 800                    -             -        -            68006 -6800
Total                         I7t!          47     239,780        3     9,378   69,715    415,250       25,788        441,039
Price Contingency                                                                                                      60,537
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                           301,576
JUIZ DE FORA
A10  Food Distribution System                1,000      1,575     12,226         8,101       500         23,402        1,223         24,625
A20  Industrial Infrastructure                 -       12,500      16,313         1,857   10,704         41,271        2,447         43,718
A50  Manpower Training                         118      2,468       7,893           721      -           11,200        1,184         12,384
B1   Water Supply                              -          -       76,746            -        -           76,746        7,675         84,421
B30  Drainage                                  -       12,675     44,097            -        -           56,771        2,205         58,976
B40  Transport                                 -          -       25,139         35,678      -           60,816        2,514         63,330
B50  Garbage Collection/Disposal               -          -         7,000        18,560      -           25,560        1,050         26,610
B60  Sites & Services                          130      8,770      10,039        4,997       -           23,936        2,256         26,192
B71  Health Posts                               82        952       6,078        4,988       -           12,100          912         13,012
B73  Child Care Centers                         13      4,018      12,961         1,508       -          18,500        1,944         20,444
C10  Project Management Unit                   -          -           -             -     24,000         24,000          -           24,000
C30  Cadastral Surveys                                    -           -             -      5,610          5,610          561          6.171
Total                          1,343    42,958    218,493         76,410   40,814         380,018       23,969        403,980
Price Contingency                                                                                                      48,518
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                           452,505
NATAL
A10  Food Distribution System                1,000                 12,286         8,987      500         22,773        1,229         24,002
A30  TA to Small Firms                         -          -           -             -      6,743          6,743           -           6,743
A41  TA & Equip. for Fish Cooperative        1,020      2,900      19,381        17,200   12,900         53,400        1,938         55,338
A43  TA & Equip. for Artisans' Co-op           185        890       3,505         2,960   22,891         30,436          351         30,787
All  Water Supply                                         -       33,228            -        -           33,228        6,646         39 873
B12  Sewer System                                                 40,493                     -           40,493        4,049         44,542
B20  Septic Systems                                                  -              -      5,000          S 000
B30  Drainage                                  925        -        24,369           -        -           25,294        4,874         30,161
B40  Transport                               2,029      3,007     36,315          1,267      -           42,617        5,447         48,064
B50  Garbage Collection/Disposal                12        -           300        17,800        68        18,180            30        18,210
B60  Sites & Services                           43        -         2,252.          -        -            2,295          225          2,520
B71  Health Posts                                8        150         786           154       -           1,097            79         1,176
B76  Police Station                              2         90         203            10       -              305           20           325
B80  Land Tenure Legalization                  -          -           -             -      6,082          6,082          -            6,082
C10  Project Management Unit                   -          -           -             -     29,156         29,156          -           29,156
C20  Administrative Improvements               -          -           -             -     10,800         10,800          -10,800
Total                          5,224      7,032    173,114         48,378   94,140        327,897       24,887        352,784
Price Contingency                                                                                                      37,052
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                           389,836



BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 2: STATE OF DESIGN AND PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES
Code           Category                        Florianopolis           Juiz de Fora              Natal
State of    Physical   State of   Physical    State of   Physical
Design   Contingency   Design  Contingency    Design  Contingency
A10   Food Distribution System                           10%                    10%           *         10%
A20   Industrial Infrastructure              *           15%          *           15%         -          -
A30   Technical Assistance to Small
Firms                               NA          NA           -           -           NA        NA
A40   Technical Assistance and
Equipment for Cooperatives           *          15%          _           -            *        10%
A50   Manpower Training                      -            -           *         15%           -          -
B10  Water Supply (and Sewerage)            **           10%         **         10%          **/***    20%/10%      a
B20   Septic Systems                        **           10%          -          -
B30   Drainage                              ***           5%                     5%         None        20%
B40   Transport                              *           10%         **         10%           *         15%
B50   Garbage Collection/Disposal            *           15%          *         15%           *         10%
B60   Sites and Services                     *           15%          *         15%           *         10%
B70   Community Facilities                  **         5-15%          *         15%          ***        10%
B80   Other                                  *           15%          -          -           NA         NA
C10   Project Management Unit                *           NA          *          NA           ***        NA
C20   Administrative Improvements            *           NA           -           -          ***        NA
C30   Cadastral Surveys                      *           20%         ***        10%           -
C40   Special Studies                        *           NA           -           -           -          -
Note: *      preliminary
**   = final design partially completed
final design completed



_ 67 -
BRAZIL                                  ANNEX 3
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT                        Page 3
Table 3: ESTIMATED FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENTS
Code           Category                 Florianopolis   Juiz de Fora    Natal
A10  Food Distribution System                 21%             21%           23%
A20  Industrial Infrastructure                34%             14%           -
A30  Technical Assistance to Small Firms   15%                 -            15%
A40 Technical Assistance and Equipment
for Cooperatives                      28%              -            22%
A50  Manpower Training                         -              16%            -
B10  Water Supply and Sewerage                31%             33%           33%
B20  Septic Systems                           23%              -            23%
B30  Drainage                                 24%             24%           29%
B40  Transport                                29%             40%           35%
B50  Trash Collection/Disposal                30%             42%           45%
B60  Sites and Services                       21%             17%           26%
B70  Community Facilities                     14%             19%           17%
B80  Other                                    32%              -             0%
C10  Project Management Unit                   0%              0%            0%
C20  Administrative Improvements               5%              -            30%
C30  Cadastral Surveys                        25%             25%            -
C40  Special Studies                           5%              -             -
City average F.E.C.                     22%              26%          24%
Project Average F.E.C. = 24%



BRAZiL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 4:  INVOLVEMENT OF STATE AND LOCAL AGENCIES
OverlI                                                                                                    Technical
Code        Category                        Responsibility                  Design                 Iplpe.estation               Superviston               A-aistance
FLOR LANOPOLIS
A10  Food Distribution Syst..a           COBAL                      CObAL                     Contractor                     COBAL/UT
A20  I.d.strial Infrastructore           CODISC                     CODISC                    CODISC                         CODISC
A30  TA to S.as  Firmri                  CEAG                                  -                        -                    CEAG/UT
A41  TA & Equip. for Fish Coopers,tLv   SUDEPE                      ACARPES                   Contractor                     ACARPES                 ACARPES
A42  TA & Equip. for Milk Cooperative  IPUF/OCESC                   OCESC/ACARPESC            Contractor                     OCESC                   OCESC/ACARESC/Co-op
Central Vale
A43  Sorvey of Arti.an.                  SINE                                  -                        -                    SINE/UT
A44  TA & Equip. for Launderers  Assn  SINE                                    -                        -                    SINE
BIO  Water Supply                        CASAN                      CASAN/CETESB              Contractor                     CASAN
820  S..erage                            IPUF                       DSP/CASAN                 DSP/SeIf Help                  DSP/CASAN
B30  Drainage                            PREF                       Private Fir              -COMCAP/C.ntractor              COMCAP/SEC. OBRAS               -
B40  Transport                           PREF                       SEC. OBRAS                Contractor                     SEC. OBRAS
B50  Garbage Collection/Disposal         PREF                       COHCAP                    COMCAP                         CDNCAP
B60  Sites & Services                   COhAB                       IPUF/CO11AB               COHCAP/CASAN/CELESE            COEAB/IPUF
B71  Health Pacts                        PREF/SESAS                 PREF                      Contraccor                     SEC. SAUDE/IPUF
B72  PrisAry Schools                     PREF/SEC. EDUC             State Bldg Dept           COHAB/Contr-ctor               IPUF/SEC. EDUC                  -
B73  Child Care Centers                  PREF/SEC. SAUDE            PREF                      PREF                           IPUP/SEC. SAUDE
B74  Nurseries                           PREF/SEC. SAUDE            PREF                      PREF                           IPUF/SEC. SAUDE
B75  Workecs  L.nchroou,                 PREF                       COMCAP                    COMCAP/Contract-r              COQCAP
BBO  Hilloides                           PREF                       SEC. OBRAS                SEC. OBRAS/Self Help           SEC. OBRAS
CIO  Project Mana.agost Unit             IPUF/SSPG                             -              IPUF                           IPUF/CNPU 
C20  Admini.trative laproveaents         IPUF                                  -              SEC. ADMINISTRAGAO             IPUF
C30  Cada.tral Surveys                   IPUF                                  -               IPUF/Cantrac-or               IPUF
C40  Special Studies                     IPUF/CITUR                            -              PREP/CITUR/C.ss1ltants         IPUF/CITUR
JUIJZ DE FORA
AIO  Food Distribution System            COBAL                      COBAL                     Contractor                     COBAL/UT                         -
A20  Industrial Infrastructure           IPPLAN                     IPPLAN/CEAG               CEAC/SOCURB or EHPAV           IPPLAN                  CEAG/SIKE
A30  TA to Small Ficms
A40  TA & Equip. fr Cooperatives
A50  Man-po.er Traising                  SEC. EDUC/SETAS/LBA/
PIPHIO/UT               IPPLAN/Contract.r         SOCURB                         SEC.EDUC/UT
B10  Water Supply                        DAE                        DAE                       DAE/Contractor                 DAE/IPPLAN
B20  Se.erage
B30  Draisage                            PREF                       DN0S                      SOCURB/Contrsctor              SOCURB/IPPIAN
B40  Transport                          IPPLAN                      IPPLAN                    EHPAV                          IPPLAN/iHPAV            SSH
B50  Garbage Col.lctioo/Vi.possl         UT/1PPLAN                  IPPLAN                    DEMLURB/SOCURB/Contrsctor    IPPLAN/DEKLURB
B60  Sites & Services                    UT/IPPLAN                  IPPLAN/COIIAB/SOCURB/CME  EMPAV/Costractor/CME/SOCURB  IPPLAN/SOCURB/CME
B71  Health Posts                        SEBES                      IPPLAN                    SOCURB/EMPAV/Castractor        SEBES/IPPLAN
B73  Child Care Centers                  SEC. EDUC                  IPPLAN                    SOCURB/EMPAV/Cantractor        SEC. EDUC/IPPLAN 
CIO  Peaject Manageaent Unit             IPPLAN                                                IPPLAN                        IPPLAN/CNPU
C20  Ad.inisceatine Ipro-esento
C30  Cadastral Surveys                   IPPLAN                                -               IPPLAN/Contr.ctor             IPPLAN/CNPU
C40  Spec-il Stodi-                                       
NASAL
AIO  Food Dlstrlbution Syate.            COBAL                      CORAL                     CEASA/Coutractor               CARAL/CEASA
A20  Industrial Infrasitru -tor-
A30  TA tr Sr,all Fit-e                  CEAG/SINE/UT                          -                        -                    CEAC                    CEA(
A41  TA & Equip. for Fish Cooperative  SUDEPI/IDEC                  IfT/CEAI T                SEC. ONRAS/Contractor          SEC. ObRAS/UI /CvART    IfT/etATER/CCAS/SINE
A43  TA !. Equip. for Arrisoss  Co-op   IDEC/CEART                  IT/ICEARI                 SEC, OIAS                      SlEC  O_RAS/IIT/CFART    IIT/CFART/CEAG/SINE/EMATER
1110 Water Supply                        PREF                       CAERN/SUDENE              CAERN/iontr-ct labor           ('AERU/SIIDENE
E20  Sew-rage                            PREI/SUMOV                 COIIAh                   C(PiAB/SFE;P/Schl II,1p         CIVlAR/SEC. SAIIME      CIIIAN
e30  brain.gie                           PREF/SIIM)V                Private Fi-nc             ConCractor                     SUMOV
h40  Transport                           PREF/SIMOV                 StI1OV                    SUMRV/Costractor               SIINiV
h50  Carbicg  Colleccion/Diapcval        PEE/SEUISU                 SImOV                     SJN4OV/Contractr               SUlMOV/SFlPM)i          SPA,;,I
S60  Sites & Services                    PREF                       COHAB/COSERN              COAIIA/COSERN/Scif Ilelp       COlAR                  SolhI
67i  H-eath Posts                        SEC. SAUDIE/UT             S ES                      SlIP. OBRAS                    SES                     IT
876  Polie StatIon                       SSP                        :11                       Contr-ctor                     SOF                     PREF
BRO  land Tanure Ltlj,ativa              PREFiPMOC(IRARIIIIIA       n.n                                n,a.                         55.
CID  Project Management IlnIt            SEPLAN                                -              SEPLAN/SEMPIA                  SEC. PLANE.IAMENI-  
C20  Adnilnistrstine In.prov-e-st.       PREF                                  -              SEMPIA                        lIT                                              J.
C30  Cd.astral Sur-ryn                          --.
C4-) Sp-1.1 St.die.                                                                    



BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 5: FINANCIAL CHRONOGRAMS
(Cr $ '000)
Ouarter   Florianopolis   Juiz de Fora      Natal    Campina Grande Vitoria    Number 6   Number 7   Number 8   All Cities
1         37,443             63,097       27,605         39,886         -          _           _          _             168,031
2         60,367             81,561       68,477         39,538      37,349        -                      _             287,291
3         75,540             84,832       58,799         40,232      55,357      7,800         -           -            322,560
4         82,304             58,929       59,546         40,927      56,314     40,895        7,939        -            346,856
5         67,691             38,389       30,636         41,622      57,270     41,590       41,617      8,080          326,894
6         38,982             43,965       32,566         42,317      58,226     42,284       42,312     42,346          342,999
7         31,245             25,507       26,761         43,049      59,233     43,015       43,043     43,078          314,931
8         30,683             22,324       24,259         43,780      60,239     43,746       43,775     43,810          312,616
9         27,803             11,432       19,213         44,512      61,246     44,477       44,506     44,542          297,730
10         22,968              8,206       15,785         45,280      62,302     45,244       45,274     45,311          290,371
11         15,829              8,345       13,553         46,048      63,359     46,012       46,042     46,079          285,263
12         10,726              5,918       12,636         46,853      64,466     46,816       46,847     46,885          281,146
13           -                  -            -              -         65,523     61,905       61,937     56,346          245,711
14           -                  -                           -         22,227     48,424       48,456     48,495          167,601
Total   501,516            452,505      389,836        514,044    723,111    512,208       471,749    424,972          399,000
501_57  452505 389836



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 6: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements           Cumulative       % Cumulative
for Each Quarter       Disbursements    Disbursement
at end of Quarter
(US$m)                (US$m)
March 31, 1980                1.5                    1.5                  2
June 30, 1980                 4.6                    6.1                  9
September 30, 1980            5.8                   11.9                 17
December 31, 1980             6.2                   18.1                 26
March 31, 1981                6.0                   24.1                 34
June 30, 1981                 6.6                   30.7                 44
September 30, 1981            6.0                   36.7                52
December 31, 1981             5.7                   42.4                 61
March 31, 1982                5.4                   47.8                 68
June 30, 1982                 5.2                   53.0                 76
September 30, 1982            5.0                   58.0                83
December 31, 1982             4.8                   62.8                 90
March 31, 1982                4.3                   67.1                 96
June 30, 1982                 2.9                   70.0               100



BRAZI L
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
CHART 1: STRUCTURE OF MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
CONSELHO NACIONAL
DE DESENVOLVIMENTO                                        MINISTER
UR BANO
SECRETARY GENERAL
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
l                  PLANNING AND                                                         ORGANIZATION
OPERATIONS                     FINANCE AND BUDGETAND MANAGEMENT
COORDINATION
URBAN              RURAL
DEVELOPMENT        DEVELOPMENT        OF ExTERNAL
ASSISTANCE
The Executive Secretary of CNDU is the Under Secretary of Urban Development
World Bank - 20398
14
L4



-72 -                                                         AleX 3
Page 8
FLOW OF FUNDS                                                                                       AUTHORIZATION
IBRD
-    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   - IBRD
INTERNATIONAL
LOANS
FUNDS
FNDUFFDTU                                                  FNPU/EBTU
l NDUUND         -_                   _              FDTUFUNDSCNPU
INFRASTRUCTURE                          OTHE                               TRANSPORT
PROJECTIS                           PROJECTS                            PROJECTS
FEDERAL
&                        CNPU/BNH
\  BNH LOAN     /
\  FUNDS      /
STATES AND
MUNICIPALITIES
STATES AND
MUNICIPALITIES
LOCAL
LOCAL                 COUNTERPART
PROJECT BANK
ACCOUNTS
(STATE LE VE L)I ___________           E ULO A
PMUI/LOCAL
- -     -   -   - -   -   -   - -   -   -     - -   -   -   - EXECUTING
AGENCIES
CONTRACTORS
World Bank - 20272



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Guidelines for Sub-Project Appraisal and Eligibility Criteria
1.        All Sub-project components that are proposed for financing under the
Project will be subjected to a preliminary screening (a) by SG/MINTER to
ensure that they will contribute to the objectives of the Project and that
they are compatible with the urban development strategy of the Municipality in
question and (b) by the Bank to ensure that they are consistent with Bank
policies. Sub-project components that are acceptable on these grounds will be
appraised by SG/MINTER and the Federal Sectoral Agencies in accordance with
the following guidelines. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, only
Sub-project components that have been appraised in accordance with these
guidelines and that meet the eligibility criteria set out below will be
accepted for financing under the Project.
A. Guidelines: Infrastructure Sub-project Components
2.        General Principles.  The general principle for appraising infra-
structure Sub-project components is to achieve Sub-project objectives at
lowest cost and to extend the provision of urban infrastructure services to
the urban poor. For the purposes of this Annex, the term "urban poor" means
that part of the urban population within low-income areas having a monthly
family income not more than three times the regional minimum wage. Such
components should be technically justified, viable in economic and/or financ-
ial terms, and achieve maximum cost recovery from the direct component bene-
ficiaries.
3.        Urban Poverty Impact.  Infrastructure Sub-project components should
channel as many benefits as possible to the urban poor. The most direct way
to do this is to identify on a map the urban poverty areas (i.e., where at
least 70% of inhabitants have a family income below three regional minimum
salaries) and put the components in these areas. This should be done partic-
ularly for water supply, septic tank, electricity, community facility, and
paving programs. Such components would have to be specially justified if they
do not fall within urban poverty areas. Some components, like transport
corridors, drainage, and trash collection, are not so easily focused. The
poverty impact of transport components is maximized by concentrating on
public transport; for trash components, extensions of service should emphasize
poor areas, and steps should be taken to maintain incomes of people making a
living based on trash collection; and for drainage components, priority should
be given to poor areas. For urbanized lot components, the poverty impact is
assured through the eligibility criteria. The basic principle is that, while
not all components will benefit the urban poor directly or exclusively, it
should be demonstrated that the primary focus of the total project package is
to channel benefits to the urban poor. Special attention should be devoted to
the relationship between low-cost solutions for providing service to the poor,
cost recovery mechanisms, and affordability. Not all packages of low-cost
solutions will be affordable to the urban poor, especially families earning
less than one minimum salary. Having identified the lowest-cost solutions,



- 74 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
special attention should be paid to developing innovative cost recovery
mechanisms and an appropriate mix of project components and standards in order
to extend service to the largest possible number of urban poor. Care should
be taken to minimize disruption of existing land tenure arrangements because
of increases in land prices due to project implementation. Procedures that
may be used to lessen this problem include legalization of land tenure and
the provision of urban infrastructure services on a wide basis in poor areas
to avoid undue pressures on land prices caused by uneven upgrading in a few
poor areas.
4.        Sub-project Component Design Considerations.  It is important to
examine several design proposals in order to explore alternative standards,
levels of service, materials, construction methods, and costs to find the most
appropriate low-cost solution. In very poor areas this may be determined by
what the beneficiaries can afford (see para. 10), e.g., water standpipes
rather than house connections or fossas seccas (constructed through self help)
rather than septic systems. Alternatively it may be appropriate and finan-
cially viable to offer a range of solutions to beneficiaries in one area. In
all cases, designs should be assessed for compatibility with the needs and
financial resources of the target population. Project designs should be
checked for use of low-cost materials, such as locally produced instead of
imported materials, and for simplicity of construction techniques to exploit
self-help operations or local unskilled or semi-skilled labor. In addition,
design assumptions concerning capacity and standards should be examined (e.g.,
water supply systems should be sized for realistic consumption levels in poor
areas instead of using national or international norms). In general, the size
of infrastructure should be kept to a minimum (e.g., two-lane instead of
four-lane roads in poor areas). Where they do not already exist, special
regulations should be introduced to allow the use of lower standards in poor
areas. Physical designs should be checked for efficiency of layout both for
infrastructure and building components   For example, an urbanized lot compon-
ent should maximize the number of lots and useable area and minimize the
length of roads and utility networks; buildings should minimize circulation
space and aim at a compact efficient plan. Higher standards and costs may in
some cases be justified as a means of reducing future operating and maintenance
expenditures. Such cases should be documented as to the cost trade-off and
the availability of local resources and finance for maintenance.
5.        Design Progress.  Delays in obtaining final engineering designs
for infrastructure are a primary cause of delays in project execution. A
timetable should be established for completing final engineering designs.
Design work on components that will be executed first should be initiated as
soon as possible subsequent to approval of the project by SG/MINTER.
6.        Land.  The appraisal should ensure that adequate appropriate land
is available, that the required primary infrastructure (e.g., for electricity,
drainage, and water supply for urbanized lot components) is available, that
the land is accessible (e.g., public transport to areas of employment for
housing components), that the estimated cost of the land is reasonable, and
that adequate arrangements have been made to compensate and re-house families
that will be displaced by the component.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        Cost Estimates.  All cost estimates should be checked for realism
and whenever possible, compared with recent experience. Units costs should
be calculated and compared with similar components in other ci-;es.  Cost of
design and supervision should be kept at reasonable levels that accord with
normal practice. The status of design should be examined and physical contin-
gency allowances checked to ensure that they reflect a realistic estimate of
the potential for cost overruns.
8.        Procurement Procedures.  Any procurement procedures that do not
correspond to standard Project procedures should be noted and justified.
9.        Cost Recovery.  In general, Sub-project components should recover as
large a proportion of investment and operating costs as possible from the
ultimate direct beneficiaries. For water supply, sewerage, electricity,
septic tanks and sites and services components, full cost recovery should be
achieved by direct tariffs and charges on the beneficiaries. Drainage compo-
nents should maximize cost recovery through increases in property taxes on
land improved under the component. Community facility components, such as
health posts and child-care centers, should attempt to recover a porportion of
operating and maintenance costs through direct charges and self-help labor
input. Transport components, schools, and special studies generally will not
recover any costs directly.
10.       Affordability.  Successful Sub-project component design must consider
both the needs of the target population and the financial resources available
to them. In almost all cases, a mix of physical standards and components will
be required to provide services to the broadest possible range of the urban
poor. Water components may combine house connections in neighborhoods where
the residents can afford them with standpipes, shared connections, or taps
with restricted water flow in the poorest areas. For the very poorest pop-
ulation, it may be necessary to use lower standards than are usually considered
acceptable in order to produce services in line with the residents ability to
pay. Rather than total upgrading of favelas, Sub-projects may concentrate on
highest priority items, such as water, land tenure, or a health post. Innovat-
ive solutions, both technical and financial, and mixes of project components
are essential if the Sub-project is to reach the largest possible proportion
of the urban poor.
11.       Economic and Financial Evaluation.  The evaluation procedures to
be used vary from component to component. For water supply, sewerage, and
electricity components, a financial analysis should be carried out to ensure
that the component will not constitute a financial burden to the utility
taking into account the financial implementation and operating costs of the
component and the revenue to the company from connection fees and monthly
payments from beneficiaries. For septic tank components, a financial analysis
should determine monthly tariffs that will recover the full cost of the septic
tank over a reasonable time period. For trash collection components, a
financial analysis should determine collection taxes for trash collection that
will cover the operating and maintenance costs of the component including an
allowance for capital depreciation. For transport components, a benefit/cost
analysis should be carried out including the implementation and maintenance



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
costs of the component and, as estimates of benefits, savings in vehicle
operating costs, road maintenance costs (where applicable), and travel time.
Where possible, benefits should be broken down by vehicle type and income
group. For drainage components, a benefit/cost analysis should be carried
out, including the implementation and maintenance costs of the component and,
as estimates of benefits, reductions in maintenance costs and increases in
land and property values due to flood and erosion control. For sites and
services components, both an economic and a financial analysis should be
carried out. The economic analysis should compare the costs of the component
with the benefits in terms of the imputed rental values of the lots produced
by the component. The financial analysis should ensure the financial viability
of the component from the point of view of the local housing company. For
other infrastructure components for which measurement and valuation of benefits
is not feasible (e.g., health posts, schools, etc), it should be demonstrated
that the solution is least-cost and that recurrent operating and maintenance
costs have been assured.
12.       Poverty Evaluation.  For each Sub-project component, estimates
should be prepared of the number and relative proportion of the urban poor
currently lacking the infrastructure service (e.g., water) who will be served
by the component. Estimates should be provided of the proportion of direct
benefits to be received by the urban poor and of the proportion of component
costs that generate benefits to the urban poor, particularly when different
standards of service are being provided to different income groups.
B. Guidelines: Employment and Income Creation Sub-Project Components
13.       General Principles.  The general guidelines for the appraisal
of employment and income creation components are that each component should
create jobs and/or incomes through a productive process, i.e., by increasing
productivity or reducing costs. It is not enough to transfer the profits of
an existing operation from one group to another (e.g., by displacing existing
intermediaries) without generating real cost reductions or productivity
increases. Components should be technically, economically, and financially
viable. Component costs should be recoverable from the operation at positive
real interest rates. It is preferable that a significant proportion of jobs
or increases in incomes created should be received by the urban poor.
14.       Relationship with Market Demand.  Market demand should be analyzed
to ensure that increased production can be sold and to identify any potential
changes in sales prices. Relevant data sources should be examined and the
validity of the data verified. Care should be taken to avoid the frequently
encountered error of using simple averages either to represent skewed distri-
butions or as inputs to non-linear relationships. Increases in both produc-
tivity and production should be critically compared with the capacity of
the producers. All streams, whether for sales, production, trainees, etc.,
should be checked for reasonableness.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
15.       Managerial Capacity.  Managerial capacity is one of the most critical
factors to component success. Competent management is important in all
employment generation components, and it is especially important in organiz-
ations that are typically susceptible to managerial problems such as co-
operatives and associations. If the enterprises to be assisted are currently
operating, the record of their management should be analyzed and adequate
technical assistance provided to overcome any problems. If a new enterprise
is to be created, procedures for identifying and hiring competent managers
should be established. Consideration may be given to programs for managerial
development and to professional managerial assistance. To identify problems
at an early stage, a rigorous managerial and financial monitoring system
should be set up, with performance criteria agreed to in advance and with the
responsibility for receiving the monitoring output given to the Sub-project
Management Unit.
16.       Sub-Project Component Design Considerations.  Every effort should be
made to find least-cost solutions. This involves reviewing estimates of costs
for land, buildings, personnel, credit, etc. to verify that (a) standards are
not excessive, (b) the quantities required have been kept to a minimum, and
(c) that the unit costs represent the cheapest prices available. Every effort
should be made to use existing buildings or rented accomodations before
building new ones, to use standardized designs, to reduce wall and open space
areas, to use local materials and construction methods, and to check for
excessive staffing proposals. The use of unit costs that can be checked
against unit costs for similar projects usually proves highly valuable. Every
effort should be made to minimize initial investment costs and to re-invest
profits from the venture to acquire additional assets. Component execution
activities should be phased to avoid overlapping of sequential activities.
General requirements concerning design progress, land, cost estimates, and
procurement procedures are similar for income and employment creation projects
and infrastructure Sub-project components and are reviewed in paragraphs 5, 6,
7, and 8.
17.       Financial Evaluation.  The objective of financial analysis is to
ensure that the investment will produce an enterprise or entity that can
function within the market system. All costs (in current prices) of imple-
mentation and operation should be included (i.e., design, land, construction,
equipment, credit, initial stocks, personnel and other operating costs,
technical assistance, studies and reserve funds). For components that consti-
tute expansions of existing operations, only the incremental costs of the
expansion should be included; sunk costs should be excluded. Net cash flows
should be projected for all periods in the life of the component and the
financial viability of the project, particularly in the initial years of
operation, should be verified. The internal financial rate of return should
be calculated and used as a diagnostic tool to identify problems and invest-
igate ways of improving the component. A range of reasonable assumptions
about sales, prices, cost changes, and start-up periods should be examined.
Adequate reserve funds for risk, growth, and capital replacement should be
determined and a schedule established for building them up from contributions
from net revenues. Care should be taken that the objectives of increasing



- 78 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
prices paid to producers (especially in cooperatives) and reducing prices to
final consumers do not conflict and jeopardize financial viability. Any
significant risks that might compromise the financial viability of the enter-
prise should be identified and steps taken to minimize them.
18.       Cost Recovery.  For each component, a cost recovery mechanism
is expected to return project funds plus a real positive rate of interest to
a local development fund for use in new projects. The details of the mechanism
(pay-back period, grace period, etc.) should be tailored to the specific
component, but it is desirable that the component start to pay back its costs
within the execution period of the Sub-project.
19.       Economic Evaluation.  Economic analysis attempts to quantify expected
increases in production and reductions in costs due to the component. Produc-
tion that would take place in the absence of the enterprise should be elim-
inated from estimates of total benefits. For example, the economic benefits
of fishing cooperatives should not include current fish production that would
be channeled through the cooperative but only increases in fish production
or real decreases in distribution costs attributable to the component. For
technical assistance components, benefits should include the expected increases
in sales or reductions in costs that result from the technical assistance.
Estimates should be based on CEAG/NAI experience in similar situations.
For manpower training components, benefits should include estimates of five-
year increases in earnings due to the program, based on actual earnings of
potential trainees and workers with the skills in which training is offered.
Financial transfers (such as taxes) should be eliminated from economic costs.
Economic indicators including net present value, internal rate of return, and
the benefit/cost ratio should be calculated.
20.       Poverty Evaluation.  For components that are acceptable in economic
and financial terms, the poverty impact should be calculated. The key measures
are (a) for employment creation components, the number of jobs created and the
capital cost (including credit) per job created; and (b) for income creation
components, the value-added distributed as income and fringe benefits to
the target group. The basis for estimating job creation should be documented
(i.e., CEAG experience in similar sectors, etc).
C. Guidelines: Urban Administration Sub-Project Components
21.       Urban administration components are more difficult to appraise but
the same general principles noted above apply. The objectives of the component
should be achieved at least cost. Programs to identify problems and implement
solutions in the urban administration should emphasize the local context,
especially avoiding sophisticated technology that exceeds local capacity to
absorb and operate it. Components should be kept simple. As much as possible,
potential benefits should be identified and quantified. This is especially
important in components to improve municipal revenues. Projects should focus
on administration and finance rather than on construction (e.g., of adminis-
trative centers).



-79 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7
D. General Considerations
22.       Complementary Measures.  All complementary measures or actions
required for Sub-project component execution should be listed and assurances
obtained that they will be carried out. These measures include financing for
operation and maintenance of facilities, traffic regulations, zoning changes,
provision of land by other agencies or the municipality, availability of
credit lines, etc.
23.       Agencies.  The appraisal should examine all agencies that will
be involved in each component's execution. The objective of the appraisal is
to determine whether the organizations have the authority, mandate, and
capacity to carry out their responsibilities, and whether the relationships
between them facilitate effective and efficient working relationships.
Deficiencies in any of these areas must be remedied if the component is to
succeed; proposals for such remedies must be agreed to when necessary. In
appraising agencies, it is important to consider the following points: (a)
the formal character of the institution, usually described in its Estatutos
Sociais or Regimentos Internos; (b) the capacity of the organization as
indicated by the size and qualifications of upper- and middle-level staff; (c)
the performance, planned and actual, of the organization during the past three
years and an assessment of future potential; (d) the agency's position in the
institutional context in which it operates; and (e) its internal and external
relationships. The appraisal of implementation arrangements, particularly
involving inter-institutional coordination, should also consider the available
structures and instruments of coordination and control and the mechanisms for
reducing conflict.
24.       Coordination.  During appraisal, it will also be necessary to
examine arrangements being made for overall coordination, final author-
itization of Sub-project expenditures, amalgamation of Sub-project accounts,
monitoring of Sub-project progress, preparation of management reports, super-
vision of implementing agencies, resolution of inter-agency technical conflicts
(at the local level), preparation of any additional Sub-project elements or
budget allocations that may be needed. To fulfill these functions, a Sub-
project Management Unit will normally be created. The unit must be appro-
priately placed within the organizational structucture, the head of the unit
must be sufficiently senior in the organization to command respect (partic-
ularly as he/she should chair the local Coordinating Committee) and there must
be a sufficient number of appropriately qualified staff for the particular
array of Sub-project components for that city. In addition the operating
system devised must allow the Unit to intervene in a timely and effective
manner by giving or withholding necessary approvals.
25.       Impact of Local Finances.  This element of the appraisal should
examine the financial capacity of the local authorities to execute the Sub-
project, both in terms of capital expenditures, debt capacity (where appro-
priate), the availability and source of counterpart funds, and their capacity
to fund recurrent operating and maintenance expenditures.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8
E. Eligibility Criteria
26.       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sub-project components
will be accepted for Bank funding only if they meet the following eligibility
criteria.
27.       Each Sub-project component shall be demonstrated to:
(a) be technically justified in terms of efficiency of design
and operation;
(b) be least-cost solutions;
(c) maximize the proportion of benefits channelled directly to
residents of low-income areas;
(d) be scheduled for execution by competent agencies; and
(e) have had adequate arrangements made for the provision
of resources to cover operating and maintenance costs.
28.       Food Distribution (A10), Industrial Infrastructure (A20), and
Technical Assistance and Equipment for Cooperatives (A40) Sub-project Components
Such components shall:
(a) be economically justified with a positive net present value
(at a discount rate of 11%);
(b) have a positive internal financial rate of return; and
(c) ensure that the sum of gross revenues from all sources and
net non-operating income shall be at least sufficient to
cover the sum of all expenses of operation, including
maintenance and administration, depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges, working capital
requirements, payments of interest and other charges on
debt, repayment of principal (to the extent not covered
by depreciation), all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes,
all cash dividends and other cash distributions of
surplus, and any capital expenditures against which no
financing has been secured.
(d) ensure that component expenditures are covered by way of loan
bearing an interest rate of no less than 2% and no more than
6% on principal indexed in accordance with the ORTN index.



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9
29.       Technical Assistance to Small Firms and Cooperatives Sub-Project
Components (A30) shall:
(a) be economically justified with a positive net present value
(at a discount rate of 11%); and
(b) recover costs at least in accordance with the CEBRAE national
average for firms of the same size.
30.       Manpower Training Sub-project Components (A50) shall:
(a) be economically justified with a positive net present value
(at a discount rate of 11%); and
(b) charge at least a nominal fee for the course.
31.       Water Supply and Sewerage Sub-project Components (Bio) shall:
(a) either have a positive internal financial rate of return
over 25 years computed on investment costs, including grant
funds, marginal supply and operating costs, and revenue from
connection fees and tariffs or cover operating and mainten-
ance costs, use low-cost technology, and be executed by a
company that will earn 5% on its capital base after project
implementation; and
(b) charge connection fees (paid over time, if necessary) that are
sufficient to achieve at least 65% connection rates in poor
areas and tariffs that are in accordance with the appropriate
legislation.
32.       Septic Tank Sub-project Components (B20) shall recover all costs
through monthly payments from beneficiaries at a zero interest rate on principal
indexed in accordance with the ORTN index over a period not to exceed 25
years.
33.       Drainage Sub-Project Components (B30) shall:
(a)  be economically justified with a positive net present value
(at a discount rate of 11%); and
(b) be followed by increases in assessed property values to
reflect the increase in value due to the project in accordance
with applicable legislation.
34.       Transport Sub-project Components (B40) shall:
(a) emphasize low-cost public transport improvements; and
(b) be economically justified with a positive net present value
(at a discount rate of 11%).



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 10
35.       Trash Collection/Disposal Sub-project Components (B50) shall fully
recover operating and maintenance costs from beneficiaries through the municipal
trash collection tax, including an allowance for capital depreciation based on
the expected life of the equipment and facilities.
36.       Site and Services Sub-project Components (B60) shall:
(a) be economically justified with a positive net present value
(at a discount rate of 11%);
(b) be financially viable and recover costs from beneficiaries
at least to the extent required by the relevant parts of
the PLANHAP Regulations as applicable to projects executed
by COHAB's under PROFILURB;
(c) restrict beneficiaries to families with monthly incomes below
three regional minimum salaries, except in cases of relocation
resulting from other Sub-project components; and
(d) maximize the proportion of beneficiaries from the poorest
families.
37.       Community Facility Sub-project Components (B70) shall:
(a) recover as high a proportion of operating and maintenance
costs as possible through contributions in labor and kind
from and direct charges on project beneficiaries.
38.       Electricity Distribution Projects (B90) shall achieve a 12% internal
financial rate of return on the incremental project net of eventual contrib-
utions fromi the Global Guarantee Fund.
39.       For all other Sub-project components, the basic criteria shall
be economic and/or financial viability and cost recovery according to definit-
ions acceptable to the Bank.



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Covenants to be Included in Project Agreements
1.        Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall otherwise
require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement (Medium-Sized Cities
Project) between Federative Republic of Brazil and International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development ("the Bank") have the meanings therein set
forth.
2.        The Executing Entities shall, jointly and severally, execute the
Sub-project described in Schedule 1 to this Sub-project Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency, ir conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering and financial practices and substantially in accordance with the
Sub-project component critical path charts set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Sub-project Agreement.
3.        The Executing Entities shall jointly establish a Sub-project Manage-
ment Unit with authority - on behalf of the Executing Entities - to supervise
the technical, administrative and financial aspects of the Sub-project and to
coordinate with SG/MINTER and the Federal Sectoral Agencies the execution of
the Sub-project.
4.        The Executing Entities shall cause the Sub-project Management Unit
to be staffed by experts whose numbers, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to SG/MINTER and the Bank.
One of such experts shall be a coordinator of all Sub-project execution
activities (the Sub-project Coordinator) who shall, inter alia, work closely
with the Project Coordinator appointed pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement.
5.        Not more than 30 days after the execution of this Agreement, the
Executing Entities shall jointly establish an Executive Committee in order to
review the general execution of the Sub-project and resolve any conflicts
which may arise between agencies of the Executing Entities involved in execut-
ing any Sub-project component or part thereof.
6.        The Executive Committee shall:
(a) consist of the head of each agency of either Executing
Entity responsible for the execution of any Sub-project
component or part thereof;
(b) be chaired by the State Secretary responsible for
urban development or his representative;
(c) meet not less than twice per year at the request
of its chairman or any two members thereof; and
(d) provide SG/MINTER within one month of the comple-
tion of any of its meetings, a report of the issues
discussed and the decisions taken thereat.



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
7.        The Executing Entities shall jointly establish a Local Coordinating
Committee to ensure interagency coordination of all activities required for
the timely, efficient and effective execution of each Sub-project component.
8.        The Local Coordinating Committee shall:
(a) consist of at least one senior "technical" representative
of each agency of either Executing Entity responsible for
the execution of any Sub-project component or part thereof;
(b) be chaired by the Sub-project Coordinator;
(c) meet not less than once per month at the request of its
chairman or any two members thereof; and
(d) provide SG/MINTER within one month of the completion
of any of its meetings, a report of the issues discussed
and the decisions taken thereat.
9.        On the commencement of the accrual of benefits to the ultimate
beneficiaries of any Sub-project component or part thereof the Executing
Entities shall take all necessary measures promptly to implement a program to
recover the cost of such component or part thereof from such beneficiaries,
such program to be recommended by SG/MINTER and approved by the Bank.
10.  (a)  One or more of the Executing Entities shall establish
a Municipal Development Fund not more than 120 days
after the execution of this Sub-project Agreement.
(b) The Executing Entities shall:
(i) cause all funds resulting from cost recovery
mechanisms pursuant to (9) above returning
to the treasury of an Executing Entity to be
placed in such Fund according to a plan
approved by SG/MINTER and the Bank; and
(ii)  ensure that all disbursements from such
Fund are made for urban development projects
benefiting residents of low income areas in
accordance with regulations and procedures
acceptable to SG/MINTER and the Bank.
11.       The Executing Entities shall cause:
(a) their respective agencies to furnish to the Sub-
Project Management Unit, promptly upon their pre-
paration, plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules
for each Sub-project component, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
details as the Sub-project Management Unit and
SG/MINTER shall reasonably request; and



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
(b) the Sub-project Management Unit to make available
to SG/MINTER and to any relevant Federal Sectoral
Agency all or any portion of the above-mentioned
documentation as SG/MINTER, the Federal Sectoral
Agency or the Bank may reasonably request.
12.       The Executing Entities shall cause their agencies:
(a) to maintain, within the Sub-project Management
Unit, records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of each Sub-project
component (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the works, goods
and services financed pursuant to this Sub-project
Agreement and to disclose their use in the Sub-
project;
(b) to enable the accredited representatives of
SG/MINTER, the Federal Sectoral Agencies and the
Bank to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Sub-project and to examine the
goods financed pursuant to this Sub-project Agree-
ment and any relevant records or documents; and
(c)  through the Sub-project Management Unit, to furnish
to SG/MINTER such information as SG/MINTER and the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Sub-
project.
13.       Not more than 120 days after the execution of this Sub-Project
Agreement, the Executing Entities shall cause the Sub-project Management Unit
(with the cooperation of the agencies of the Executing Entities involved in
Sub-project component implementation) to implement a program satisfactory to
SG/MINTER and the Bank to collect, analyze and evaluate information concerning
each Sub-project component. Thereafter the Executing Entities shall cause the
Sub-project Management Unit to furnish to SG/MINTER and the relevant Federal
Sectoral Agency or Agencies such information and any studies and reports as a
result thereof.
14.       The Executing Entities shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carrying out of the
Sub-project and shall, through the Sub-project Management Unit, furnish to
SG/MINTER, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to SG/MINTER
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Sub-project.
15.       Prior to carrying out any Sub-project civil works, the Executing
Entities, through the Sub-project Management Unit, shall furnish to the
relevant Federal Sectoral Agency detailed engineering plans and designs for
the civil works in question. The written approval of such Federal Sectoral



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Agency with respect to such plans and designs shall constitute a condition
precedent to the commencement of the civil works in question, which commence-
ment shall be authorized by SG/MINTER.
16.       The Executing Entities shall cause:
(a) their agencies responsible for carrying out any Sub-
project component or part thereof to maintain records
and procedures (including separate Sub-project compo-
nent accounts) adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained generally accepted accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures
of each such agency in respect of the Sub-project
carried out; and
(b)  the Sub-project Management Unit to maintain a con-
solidated account for the Sub-project.
17.       The Executing Entities shall cause:
(a) all Sub-project component accounts and the con-
solidated account for the Sub-project to be made
available to SG/MINTER for purposes of audit not
more than 45 days after SG/MINTER has requested
same from the Sub-project Management Unit; and
(b) the Sub-project Management Unit to furnish to
SG/MINTER such other information concerning the
accounts with respect to the Sub-project as
SG/MINTER may from time to time reasonably request.
18.       Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and
civil works for the Sub-project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to the Loan Agreement.
19.       The Executing Entities shall operate and maintain or cause to be
operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate relevant practices all
Sub-project component facilities within their jurisdictions.
20.       The Executing Entities shall:  (a) cause the Sub-project Management
Unit, on a quarterly basis, to provide SG/MINTER evidence of the financial
condition of each Sub-project assisted cooperative and association; and
(b) take such measures, if any, as they may deem appropriate on the basis
of such evidence to ensure the financial viability of each such cooperative
and association.
21.       The Executing Entities shall cause:
(a) all reasonable efforts to be made to sell Sub-
project urbanized lots to qualified applicants
having lowest incomes; and



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
(b) priority to be given in the allocation of Sub-
project urbanized lots to families relocated
as a result of the implementation of any Sub-
project component.
22.       The Municipality shall provide on a timely basis all funds required
to cover the operating costs, including depreciation, of the trash collection
Sub-project components and shall, if necessary, adjust the trash collection
fee for such purpose.
23.  (a)  The Executing Entities shall cause the Sub-project
Management Unit to establish, and thereafter main-
tain throughout the execution of the Sub-project,
a Sub-project Account in accordance with terms and
conditions satisfactory to SG/MINTER and the Bank.
(b) Promptly after the execution of this Sub-project
Agreement and on a quarterly basis thereafter
throughout the execution of the Sub-project:
(i) the Borrower, through SG/MINTER and EBTU
shall deposit in the Sub-project Account an
amount equivalent to seventy percent (70%)
of the total of Sub-project expenditures for
the ensuing quarter in question as shall be
reasonably estimated in advance by SG/MINTER
and the Sub-project Management Unit, excluding
from such amount to be deposited such funds
as are to be made available to the Executing
Entities pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) (ii) of
the Loan Agreement; and
(ii) the Executing Entities shall deposit in the
Sub-project Account such amounts in excess of
those referred to in paragraphs (b) (i), (c)
(ii) (A) and (c) (ii) (B) of this Section as
shall be required from each of them for
Sub-project execution.
(c) The Executing Entities shall, through the Sub-
project Management Unit, ensure that, with the
exception of salary payments for the Sub-project
Coordinator, no payment is made from the Sub-
project Account in any quarter unless and until:
(i) all of the amounts referred to in paragraph
(b) (i) of this Section are deposited therein;
(ii) arrangements satisfactory to SG/MINTER have
been made for the provision of (A) such funds



- 88 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
as are to be made available to the Executing
Entities pursuant to Section 3.02 (b) (ii)
of the Loan Agreement, and (B) such funds as
may be lent by BNH to the Executing Entities
for purposes of Sub-project execution; and
(iii) the payment in question has been approved by
the Sub-project Management Unit.
24.  (a)  Provided the provisions of Section (23) (c) hereof
are complied with, the funds deposited in the
Sub-project Account shall only be paid out of such
Account for purposes of the execution of the
Sub-project or a component thereof.
(b) In all cases other than those referred to in
paragraph (c) of this Section, the payment
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section shall
be made on a grant basis.
(c) In the event that the execution referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section results in any sale
or lease of any premises, goods or services in an
open market, the payment referred to in such
paragraph (a) shall be made by way of loan bearing
a positive interest rate on principal indexed in
accordance with the Borrower's index for Obrigacoes
Reajustaveis do Tesouro Nacional.
25.       This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms and the
Borrower, through SG/MINTER, shall promptly notify the
Executing Entities thereof.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Cost Recovery Mechanisms
(Cities Appraised by the Bank)
1.        For Food Distribution (A10) projects, all the direct costs involved
in setting up and operating the system will be recovered by the wholesaler
(COBAL) through the wholesale price. Funds will be passed as loans to the
executing agents and returned to the FMDU plus a real rate of interest (equal
to the applicable BNH loan rates 1/ for this project). The Feiras Livres
(Markets) project costs will be recovered through a daily stall rental fee
(Cr$19 in Juiz de Fora and Cr$20 in Natal). A depreciation fund will enable
the replacement of stalls, tools, and trucks. Costs recovered from stall-
holders will be kept by COBAL for use in expanding their operations.
2.        The costs of Industrial Infrastructure (A20) projects will be
recovered through the sales prices of industrial sites. The Juiz de Fora
subproject includes nonphysical components; of these, managerial assistance
and start-up costs are fully recovered, but only 40% of technical assistance
costs is recovered. Project funds will be passed as loans to executing agen-
cies and recovered plus a real positive interest rate to the FMDU.
3.        For Technical Assistance to Small Firms (A30) projects, the charges
for technical assistance provided by CEBRAE/CEAG to the beneficiary run from
symbolic fees for microenterprises to full cost fees to medium-size enter-
prises. On a national scale, CEBRAE/CEAG recovers about 40% of their costs.
The costs recovered under this project will be kept by the local CEAG's to
enable them to build up and expand this type of activity.
4.        The direct costs of Technical Assistance and Equipment for Coopera-
tives (A40) will be repaid, since all cooperatives are expected to become
financially viable. In addition, the cooperatives will establish education,
marketing, and technological reserve funds of 25-35% of net revenues to ensure
the sustained growth of their operations. Project funds will be passed to
the cooperatives as loans and fully recovered (plus interest) to the FMDU.
5.        For Manpower Training A(50), enforceability and affordability
considerations make cost recovery administratively difficult. Thus only a
symbolic fee (Cr$50) will be paid by each trainee at the beginning of the
course.
6.        For Water Supply and Sewerage (B10) projects, connection fees and
monthly water and sewerage charges will cover all direct costs 2/. Agreements
1/   These interest rates, that vary from state to state, apply to all job
and income creation projects.
2/   Since the Brazilian economy has an extensive inflation indexation system,
normal monetary correction procedures will ensure that costs are recovered
in real terms.



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
have been reached with water companies in Florianopolis and Juiz de Fora on a
substantial reduction of connection fees to Cr$100 for the low-income benefi-
ciaries of this project. In Florianopolis, the water supply project also
includes sewerage for the Lagoa de Conceicao which will be cost recovered
using a system by which the largest polluters will pay a higher share of the
costs. Funds recovered will be retained by the water companies.
7.        For Sanitation (B20) projects, cost recovery is attained through
monthly payments by direct beneficiaries. 1/ In Florianopolis, cost recovery
includes contributions in labor and in kind (cement); a system is already
in use by the executing agency, whereby every family contributes on the aver-
age five bags of cement (Cr$70 each) amounting to 18% of costs. Under these
projects, costs will be recovered to the municipalities and transferred to
the FMDU.
8.        For Drainage (B30) projects, maintenance savings by the munici-
palities over the project lifetime will more than recover project costs in
Florianopolis and Natal, and will achieve 13% cost recovery in Juiz de Fora.
Additional municipal revenues will also be generated by higher assessed prop-
erty values resulting in increased property tax revenues. All costs will be
recovered in both Florianopolis and Natal and 40% of costs in Juiz de Fora.
The maintenance cost savings will be retained by the municipalities. In-
creases in tax revenues will be transferred by the municipalities to the FMDU.
Transport (B40) sub-projects are financed with federal transport tax revenues
collected from road users and, in this sense, are pre-cost recovered. No
additional mechanisms are envisaged under this project.
9.        Trash Collection/Disposal (B50) projects will achieve cost recovery
through the tax levied on direct beneficiaries. Assurances have been received
from the municipalities that, if necessary, tax rates will be raised to cover
all operating costs, including depreciation of capital.
10.       Sites and Services (B60) project costs will be recovered through
monthly payments by the direct beneficiaries according to standard BNH pro-
cedures; these include a 4% administration fee, a repayment period of 20-25
years at a real interest rate of 1% p.a. Eligibility criteria will limit
access to the subproject to families with incomes of up to three minimum
salaries. To reduce costs further, the Juiz de Fora project includes cross-
subsidization between commercial and residential lots. In addition, a risk
protection fund will be created (5% extra per month) which will protect
against potential defaults by individuals without standard employment identi-
fication who will be accepted under the program.
1/   Since the Brazilian economy has an extensive indexation system, normal
monetary correction procedures will ensure that costs are recovered in
real terms.



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
11.       For Community Facility projects, cost recovery ranges from 0% for
primary school projects through 15-22% for day-care centers and nurseries up
to 100% for the workers' lunchroom in Florianopolis. While mechanisms have
been developed to achieve partial cost recovery when mothers will be free to
work or to promote payment in labor through mothers working as aides, these
social programs are typically financed from general revenues and direct cost
recovery is not a priority.
12.       Given the difficulties of allocating the costs of Project Manage-
ment Units to the beneficiaries of the different projects, there will be no
direct cost recovery for these components. The costs of Administrative
Improvement projects will be indirectly recovered through increased efficiency
and Cadastral Survey costs will be recovered through increased property tax
revenues. No recovery mechanisms were devised for Special Study components.
13.       A summary of these mechanisms and the percentages recovered for each
city appraised by the Bank are presented in Table 1.



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Table 1: COST RECOVERY FOR EACH CITY
Code           Category               Florianopolis       Juiz de Fora       Natal
A10  Food Distribution System         D = 100%            D = 100%         D = 100%
A20  Industrial Infrastructure        D = 100%            D = 100% /a
A30  Technical Assistance to
Small Firms                    D = 40%              -              D =40%
A40  Technical Assistance and
Equipment for Cooperatives   D = 100%               -              D = 100%
A50  Manpower Training                                    D = 1%
B10  Water Supply and Sewerage        D = 100%            D = 100%         D = 100%
B20  Septic Systems                   D= 100%               -              D = 100%
B30  Drainage                         I = 100%            I = 40%          I = 100%
B40  Transport                        RS = 100%           RS = 100%        RS = 100%
B50  Garbage Collection/Disposal    D = 100%              D = 100%         D = 100%
B60  Sites and Services               D = 100%            D = 100%         D = 100%
B70  Community Facilities             D = 28% /b          D = 14% /c       D = 20% /d
B80  Other                              NA
C10  Project Management Unit            NA                   NA              NA
C20  Administrative Improvements        NA                                   NA
C30  Cadastral Surveys                I = 100%            I = 100%
C40  Special Studies                    NA
Notes: D = Direct
I = Indirect
RS = Revenue Sharing
/a   Refers to infrastructure; the figure for technical assistance is 40%.
/b   Includes health posts, child-care centers, nursery and workers' lunchroom.
/c   Includes health posts and pre-school centers.
7T   For the health post; for police station--I = 100%.



- 93 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.    Background Documents
Al.   Recent National Urban Development Policies in Brazil, David E. Goodman
(Consultant to IBRD), February 23, 1977.
A2.   The Medium-Sized City Program in Brazil:  Rationale, Regionalization,
and Recent Developments, David E. Goodman (Consultant to IBRD),
September 1977.
A3.   BNH Report on the functions and structure of the CDU.
A4.   CEBRAE Laws and Internal Regulations, 1978 Program and Budget, Annual
Reports for 1976 and 1977, Statement of CEBRAE's role in the MSC
project, Report oll SSE Technical Assistance in Brazil (August 1978).
A5.   COBAL Laws and Internal Regulations, 1975/76, 1976/77 Financial
Statements, 15th Anniversary Report (1977), Brochures and Reports
describing programs.
A6.   SINE Laws and Internal Regulations, National Development Plan
(1975-1979) for Employment, Reports on SINE activities.
A7.   SUDEPE Laws and Regulations, 1978 Work Program, 1976 and 1977 Reports.
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl.   City Profile, Subproject Component Feasibility Studies, and Imple-
mentation Plans for Florian6polis (4 Volumes), Instituto de Planeja-
mento Urbano de Florian6polis, Florian6polis, October 1978.
B2.   City Profile, Subproject Component Feasibility Studies, and Imple-
mentation Plans for Juiz de Fora (14 Volumes), Instituto de Pesquisas
e Planejamento, Juiz de Fora, October 1978.
B3.   City Profile, Subproject Component Feasibility Studies,and Imple-
mentation Plans for Natal (10 Volumes), Secretaria Municipal de Pla-
nejamento/Secretaria Estadual de Planejamento, Natal/Rio Grande do
Norte, November 1978.
B4.   City Profile, Subproject Component Feasibility Studies,and Imple-
mentation Plans for Campina Grande (6 Volumes), Companhia de Desen-
volvimento Campinagrandense, November 1978.



- 94 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
C.    Selected Working Papers
Cl.   Supplementary Supervision Volume:  No. 1 Florian6polis (containing
details of all project components and the physical/financial chrono-
grams).
C2.   Supplementary Supervision Volume:  No. 2 Juiz de Fora.
C3.   Supplementary Supervision Volume:  No. 3 Natal
C4.   Detailed Project Cost Tables.
C5.   Selected Data on Municipal Finances (city budget, etc).



IEEED14272
I ~~~~QE0RE)RYE)WN 55 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APR  YY9N
~~ -EAEAP/ARINO
Ax                 lxF~~RENCH-
'kUtANA)-
~~-OLOME*A  )  j*~~~~~~~~~~~~*~~~-'             $5      /                          At/an~~~~~~~~~~tic          c  e  on
"a~~~~~~~~~~~~II A                                                              isLJ 
N    ~~~~-,.LA-~~~~~A-s          ct4>~~~~~~~~.~~-  jY- ~~~~~~ ~~     fEE EM           -FOTAEZ
E                                
-~~  iS4rfr~~~~S~~~  ,X7--  K4~~~~0Xt>"j4/                         is                     A7  Li 127~~~~R"'
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
-   t%   /                     4,                 /    /4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~T
-cc)  ~~~~~~  / ~~~~I<  /  v- i  k2    ,.i                    ?DSPJIED        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
1"  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~~~~~~~-  <5  /~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C"MCI
R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                          N                                           0IBANC              /               5
UIAB4         BRASiLl    I                                                    AATA
A,)                                                            N~~~~~~~O   A
N-      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        "  ~~~~~~~~~ECIFE~~~~~~~~~A 
YE) PRANCE)  4                                                            '4~~~~                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _*  JAZEIE)EIRON
DUM ZE CIIE  PRJC
N' L C-'     -. iW  "
5  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t>                                                   K\~~~~~~~6LRAN)O              I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             I'A A % fL
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TO LEE)HRZNTERE
-5A/                                                                  1V1)I






* i ;          A     s                                                                                                Af B:To2eito /,r,ontew
.0                                                ~~~~~~~BRAZ L                                          5
SSMOEEDIICTSJE MEDIUM   SIZE CITIES PROJECT
BR A Z I L                                          JUIZ  DE  FORA
A"BRASLIA*T_j
dJ~  e koe,
SlB--  ._  J' 2F  2 -L  g     t)W 4i --r 
Th0 dojo,eoo                                                                                                                JBP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Ja
) I        PI,  r ,o,riottnpoIis                           /N Yel Horro--
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /o, ~ '
PROJECT                            ~~~~~~~~EXISTING
NEW  NDUSTR AL ZONE                     K       INDUSTRIAL ZONES
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT AREA                      COMMERCAL ZONES & SERVICES
ElURBANIZED LOTS                                  PREDOMINANTLY POOR AREAS
WATER SUPPLY PROGRAM                            BLJILT UP AREAS
HEALTH POSTS /COMMUNITY CENTER             -    MAIN ACCESS ROADS & STREETS
CH LD CARE CENTERS                 ~~~RAILROAD
F OOD DISTRIBL]I ON CENTER                        RIVER
~J MANPOWER TRAINING CENTER               ---STATE BOUNDAR ESCDu
AS , 1't .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- -X ----.i 
    INDUSTRIAL SUPPORT CENTER -                  -  INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES
X                                      7         ,,                                                                                \''\''S              'r,T',)~~~KI~METRS 
DRAINAGE
0 DO
> W 1       >                                                        >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
)~~~~7 te.\ Idm






+)%  4S'45'                                                                                                                                            40'3C
BRAZIL
MEDIUM  SIZE CITIES PROJECT
FLORIANOPOLIS
4~~~~~~~~~82
PROJECT                                     EXISTING::i
LZZNEW  INDUSTRIAL ZONE                         INDUSTRIAL ZONES
TRANSPORT IMPROVEMENT AREAS                 COMAMERCIAL ZONE & SERVICES                                       SC   IT-
URBANIZED LOTS                           BPREDOMNANTLY POOR AREASME/AoI
WATER SUPPLY & SEPTIC TANKS                 BUILT UP AREAS                                                                                CoRmA Z I
PROGRAM                                                                                                             BBAZIL                God
-MAIN ACCESS ROADS & STREETS
POOD DISTRIBUTION CENTER                                                                                                                BRAS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                         ~~~~~~~~HEALTH POSTS 
KILOMETERS                              CHLIAECNES---NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DRAINAGE                                                                                                                     > T          /         '
4lr45'                D~~~AUNRY  ASOCIEATIONS1~   s
|~~~~~~~~~~~~AR                                                                    CO PE A IV7                                                                                                              10         01   /   - t2nU,r E ;36 0   { 237 






IBRD 13950
X   o0 t                  6RAZIL                       / 0P '                          JANUARY 1979
BRAZIL                      /x-
<; SDMEDIUM  SIZE CITIES PROJECT                                                   B
N ATA L                    /(                    B R A ZIL        N'
C                                                                                   \/;"X,X=A "'S ,J' T  J
Grande/
.~~~~~~~~~~f It i/a:=
, 0 ^ =OPE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAStlVE
S, PORT IMEYRC     ' AREAS
/           W iX Xf -' ACTE ES RO EC   STA ES
<s )/ X l. 0 0 T---AINAnE A _                             RlEA
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c  ct n)
T -LURBAN'IZED LOTS
F00tOO DISTRIBTION CENTERS
(    Ii  ARTISAN COOPERATIVE
A  ftSH-ING~ COOPE-RATIVE
E-XiSTING:
El]INDUSTRIAL ZONES
El]COMMERCIAL ZONES & SERVICES
ffl     RED  NNTUY POOR AREAS
K>           I      [ii] R~~~~~UILT UP AREAS
-MAIN ACCESS ROADS & STREETS
RAILROADS
i=RIVERS
STATE BOUNDARIES
-      NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOAMETES



