Document of                        FIL    COPI
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3212-BEN
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 9, 1981
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =     CFAF 220
CFAF 1 million    =      US$4,546
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
Metric                           British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)        0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)            2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                  2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)               1,308 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOAD       Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAA        Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Ministry of Finance)
CARDER     Centre d'Action Regionale pour le Developpement Rural
CERFER     Centre Regional de Formation pour l'Entretien Routier, Togo
CNERTP     Centre National d'Essais et de Recherches des Travaux Publics
DAMB       Direction des Affaires Monetaires et Bancaires
DRDR       Division des Routes de Desserte Rurale (Feeder Roads Division)
DRP        Direction des Routes et Ponts (Directorate of Roads and Bridges)
DTT        Direction des Transports Terrestres
EDF        European Development Fund
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, France
FR         Fonds Routier (Road Fund)
GNP        Gross National Product
ITC        Inter-ministerial Technical Committee
MTPCH      Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la Construction et de l'Habitat
(Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing)
MTC        Ministere des Transports et des Communications
OCBN       Organisation Commune Benin-Niger des Chemins de Fer et des Transports
SONACOTRAP Societe Nationale de Construction et des Travaux Publics
STI        Subdivision des Techniques Industrielles
(Equipment Maintenance Division)
UNCDF      United Nations Capital Development Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..........................................             1
A.  The Land, Population and Economy .....................                 1
B.  The Transport System .. ...........           ....................     1
C.  Transport Policy and Sector Management ....            ...........    2
D.  Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector             ........    3
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR.                        ...            .......       4
A. The Network...    4
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffiic..                         4
C.  Road Transport Industry                  .... ....                    5
D.  Road Safety and Vehicle Regulation ...................  .             5
E.  Road Administration ...................    ...   .. ...........       6
F. Staffing and Training                      . . .                       7
G. Road Planning                          . ..    8
H.  Road Engineering, Construction and Procurement                        8
I.  Road Maintenance ......................................               9
J. Financing                           ...  10
K. Previous Highway Projects                     . . .    12
III. THE PROJECT                       ....14
A.  Objectives...                          ................. . .         14
B. Description                     ....14
C. Cost Estimates                    ....18
D.  Procurement ......................................... .              19
E.  Implementation .        .................. ....................      20
F.  Financing, Disbursements and Reporting.                              20
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION                      ....27
A. Laterite Road Rehabilitation Program .28
B.  Paved Road Rehabilitation and Resurfacing .30
C. Sensitivity and Risks .30
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .                  .31
This report was prepared by F. Johansen (Sr. Economist) and
C.J.D. Lane (Highway Engineer) on the basis of an appraisal
mission in Benin in July 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1.   Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance for Road
Rehabilitation, Training and Road Safety.
2.   Documents available in the Project File.
MAP
IBRD-15423
CHART
World Bank-22135



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Land, Population and Economy
1.01      The People&s Republic of Benin covers 112,600 km2.  It lies
between Nigeria to the east, Togo to the west and Upper Volta and Niger to
the north; it has a southern seaboard of some 150 km. The terrain is mostly
flat or rolling except for the Atacora mountains in the northwest, and
changes from sandy soils in the south to clayey soils of various types in
the north. The south has two rainy seasons with an annual average rainfall
of 1,300 mm; in the north a single rainy season averages 1,000 mm.
1.02      According to the results of the 1979 census, Benin has about 3.3
million inhabitants of whom 1.8 million are concentrated in the three
coastal provinces (about 11,700 km2) where about 800,000 live in urban
areas, especially Cotonou and Porto Novo, and 1 million live in rural areas
with a density of 154 persons/km2. Population densities decrease consider-
ably northwards, to about 30 persons/km2 in the center (Zou) and 12, persons/
km2 in the north (Borgou and Atacora). The populaLtion growth rate is
about 2.6% p.a. While the rural population has been increasing at only 1.3%
on average and has even decreased in Zou and Mono provinces, the urban popula-
tion has been increasing at 8%.
1.03      The mainstay of Benin's economy is agriculture.  In the south, the
land is intensely cultivated, but even so, food production is not enough to
meet local consumption. In the north only about 4k% of cultivable land is
actually under cultivation but it produces enough for an exportable surplus;
livestock is also reared there.  Agricultural production stagnated during
the 1970s; fishery output, traditionally an important food item in the
south, has declined because of a rise in the salinity of Lake Nokoue.
The value of production per rural inhabitant varies widely: the highest,
about $110, occurs in the center, about $90 in Borgou, and as low as $50 in
Oueme. Productivity in agriculture can be greatl, improved and is one of
Government's objectives, the more so as the income increase essentially
depends on improving agriculture, as Benin has feew other exploitable natural
resources.
1.04      The one-third of the population engaged in other than agricultural
activities produces two-thirds of the GNP. The transport and trade sectors
are especially important as Benin handles most of Niger's import-export
traffic, and in recent years has also handled part of Nigeria's traffic.
Secondary and tertiary sector incomes show even greater disparities than in
agriculture but are in general higher and increase the average income per
capita to an estimated $250 (1979). This is one of the lowest in the world.
B.   The Transport System
1.05      Transport is particularly important in Berlin, as it serves both
domestic needs and the transit needs of neighbors; it contributes about
one-fourth of the GNP and absorbs about one-fourth of public investment -
$250 million of the $1,110 million 1977-80 investment program.



- 2 -
1.06      The port of Cotonou is the focal point of the system; it was
built in 1965, and has four general cargo berths, a jetty for bulk cargo, a
transit area and a fishing quay. An expansion is in progress, involving an
additional 610 m of general cargo berths with transit sheds, hardstandings,
road and railway services, and a new cut-off breakwater. Its total cost is
estimated at $50 million, financed by IDA and seven other agencies. The
port handled about 1.4 million tons in 1979, almost half destined for
Nigeria via the coastal paved road (38 km), and about 25% for Niger, via the
OCBN 1/ railway to Parakou (440 km) and from there via the Parakou-Malanville
paved road (320 km). This rail/road combination is known as "the Benin route".
1.07      The OCBN railway is jointly owned by Niger and Benin.  It operates
the main line from Cotonou to Parakou and charters trucks to carry goods
from Parakou to Niger; two-thirds of general cargo and all fuel oil products
are apportioned to truckers from Niger. OCBN also operates the Cotonou-
Segboroue and Cotonou-Pobe railway lines, which carry mainly passengers. In
all, the railway carries about 80 million ton-km per year and after the
Government, is the second largest employer in Benin. To protect the railway,
Government discouraged upgrading the road parallel to the rail line and only
allowed cars and light trucks, and occasionally heavy trucks after paying a
fee, to use the two railroad bridges adapted to accommodate road traffic and
which were the sole means of crossing the Zou and Oueme rivers, thus keeping
road traffic to a minimum. However, a road bridge over the Zou was opened in
1980 and one on the Oueme will be built as part of the Dassa - Parakou road,
probably in 1982-84.
1.08      The country's only international airport at Cotonou handles some
4,000 flights annually; in 1978, these carried about 39,000 passengers and
3,900 tons of freight. Benin has also five small airfields, but domestic
air transport is not important. Benin is a shareholder in Air Afrique and
UTA and runs the domestic carrier Air Benin.
1.09      Road transport is the most important means of moving goods and
passengers. The paved network comprises only about 900 km, recently built
or being resurfaced or rehabilitated. There are about 2,700 km of gravel
roads and about 3,700 km of feeder roads, most of which are in poor condi-
tion. Details of the road sector are given in Chapter II.
C.   Transport Policy and Sector Management
1.10      Responsibility for transport policy is shared between the Minis-
tries of Transport, Public Works and Planning but there is only ad-hoc
cooperation between them. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for the
collection and analysis of transport statistics, the review of tariffs, and
preparation of investment proposals. The Ministry of Planning has identi-
fied lists of improvements and study needs, but no "plan" as such has been
prepared, as the priority needs are expected to absorb most of the available
financing. The Government's main objectives in the transport sector are
upgrading of low standard roads, following priorities set by traffic growth
and developments in agriculture; improving road maintenance capacity; and
1/   Organisation Commune Benin - Niger des Chemins de Fer et des Transports.



increasing the comparative advantage of the "Benin route" vis a vis competing
routes by completing the paved road to parallel the railway and also extend
the railway to the Niger border Niger is studying its further extension
to Niamey.
1.11      Several actions are already underway to make the North-South or
Benin route more attractive. The port is being expianded and should have
sufficient capacity to meet foreseeable needs. The European Development Fund
(EDF) is assisting in financing the paving of the Bohicon-Dassa Zoume road
section paralleling the railway, and has already financed a feasibility study
for paving the remaining gravel section, from Dassa Zoume to Parakou (210 km).
The study concluded that paving would yield a rate of return of about 14%; the
detailed engineering is being prepared and is expected to be completed in
1981. The construction cost is estimated at about $50 million, and EDF is
prepared to finance about half that amount. The paving of the Dassa-Parakou
road will probably take place in 1982-84 and will certainly cause a diversion
of some Niger traffic from rail to road. On the railway side, the Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) financed a feasibility study on extending it
to Niamey; the study concluded that such an extension would yield a return
of about 13%. As a result, FAC is considering helping to finance the works,
expected to cost $750 million, and both the Benin and Niger governments are
seeking additional sources of financing. However, support has not been
encouraging. The consultant's report is thought to be overly optimistic and
there are many risks involved, as for instance the instability of the uranium
market, and traffic diversion to the road; a more realistic rate of return
would be as low as 4%. To ensure the continued use of an improved "Benin
route", the Governments of Benin and Niger have signed an agreement by which
90% of Niger-s import-export traffic will travel via that route.
1.12      The Government also intends to improve the access to landlocked
Upper Volta, for which it has recently cofinanced the international bridge
at Porga and has commissioned a study financed by BOAD 1/ to determine which
alignment south of Djougou should be adopted and improved: via Parakou or via
Savalou. Efforts are also underway to improve about 700 km of feeder roads
through IDA, EDF and the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) assistance, and
some 470 km of main roads under the Third Highway Project. Further, IDA has
approved an additional feeder road project, while EDF is prepared to finance
some gravel road rehabilitation, and the proposed project would assist in
further institution building and road maintenance and upgrading.
D.   Bank Group Assistance to the Transport Sector
1.13      The Bank Group has supported the transport sector in Benin with
five projects: four road projects and one port project. The total cost of
these five projects is $108.7 million with an IDA contribution of about
$50.8 million. The first project (Credit 215-DA, $3.5 million 1970), was
for highway maintenance; the second (Credit 415-DA, $20.8 million, 1973),
for the reconstruction of the Parakou-Malanville road and 2 sections of the
Bohicon-Godomey road; the third (Credit 746-BEN, US$10 million, 1977) for
1/   Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement.



- 4 -
reconstruction of the remaining section of the Bohicon-Godomey road and
maintenance and rehabilitation of main roads; the fourth (Credit 717-BEN,
$5.5 million, 1977) for construction of feeder roads; and the fifth (Credit
826-BEN, $11 million, 1978) to expand the Cotonou Port. The Bank has thus
supported the transit corridor role, upgrading of most of the important
roads, and institution building, including training. Experience under
previous highway projects is discussed in Chapter II.
1.14      The Bank strategy is to continue past efforts:  feeder road up-
grading under the second feeder road project; institution building, training
and upgrading of gravel roads under the proposed Fourth Highway Project; while
a fifth highway project would assist in paving the last gravel section of the
main north-south road. The Bank does not, however, support the railway
extension (para 1.11).
II. HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network
2.01      Benin has a road network of reasonably adequate extent, about
7,270 km. Some 900 km are paved, some 2,700 km are laterite-surfaced and
the remainder are earth roads, many impassable during the rainy season. The
road density follows population density: around 130 m/km2 in the coastal
areas, 70 m/km2 in the center and 55 m/km2 in the north, with an average
of 65 m/km2. Paved roads are mostly 6m wide and most are in satisfactory
structural condition, though the 6m width is already inadequate for the main
interstate routes. Engineered gravel roads have been poorly maintained in the
past; some 270 km are being regravelled under the Third Highway Project, and
the proposed project will improve another 500 km, with a further 200 km being
improved though not completely regravelled under routine maintenance each
year. Few feeder roads are all-weather roads, but almost 1,400 km should be
by the end of the various feeder road projects (para. 1.12).
Road Network by Classification and Surface Type - 1980
Primary
International  National   Secondary  Tertiary
Roads        Roads        Roads      Roads    Total    %
----------------------(km)---------------------------
Paved                   782           112           -           -      894    12
Gravel                1,162          992          539           -    2,693    37
Earth                   179             -           -       3,500    3,679    51
Total            2,123         1,104          539      3,500    7,266
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.02      According to available but inadequate data, the vehicle fleet was
about 11,000 in 1970; 12,000 new plates were issued when registration pro-
cedures were unified in 1975. The 1980 fleet estimate based on registration



- 5 -
data to 1978 and a growth rate of 4.5% p.a. is 15,000 vehicles, of which about
50% are passenger cars, 30% small trucks and 20% iare heavy vehicles (Table
below). Fuel consumption decreased in 1973 and 1974 but recovered in 1975 and
since then has increased about 3.5% p.a.
Vehicle Registrations - 1970-78
Vehicle Type
Passenger  Pick  Trucks  Trucks  Trucks (over 13t)            Special
Year        Cars    Ups   1.5-7t  7-13t         & Trailers      Buses  Purpose    TOTAL
1970        384       75      83      168           66            -        5        781
1971        354       58     182      115           81            3        3        796
1972        380        -     214      135           97            -        4        830
1973        320      113     131       80           92            1       10        747
1974        244       37     183       88           90            1       10        653
1975        557      385     162       97          104            2        5      1,312
1976      1,019      160     187      105          152           71       23      1,717
1977      1,525       77     970      107          366            5       47      3,097
1978      1,980       98   1,205      100          479           12       60      3,934
1978 fleet  6,763   1,003   3,317       995        1,527           95      167    13,867
(estimate)
Source: Directorate of Land Transport, March 1980.
C.   The Road Transport Industry
2.03      There is no restriction on the setting up of trucking companies, and
the road transport industry consists of a number of semi-public and private
enterprises. The most organized is the Nigerien-Beninese TRANS-BENIN which
complements the OCBN for international freight. Six transport companies, one
in each province, operate to satisfy social needs rather than to make profits.
These companies, however, break even and are self-sufficient, charging a flat
rate CFAF 22 per ton-km. Private truckers, mostly small operators with four
vehicles or less provide mostly local, short distance services, and most of
the interstate and national transport. In addition, some enterprises have
their own fleets to meet their transport needs. While the Ministry of Trans-
port establishes fares for the private transport services, they are not
enforced and truckers charge what the market will bear and cross-subsidize
customers in a competitive environment.
D.   Road Safety and Vehicle Regulation
2.04      The Land Transport Directorate (DTT) of the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC) is responsible for road regulations in Benin.
Increased awareness of the problem of traffic accidents prompted MTC to create
a National Committee for Road Safety in 1978, which under the Ministry's



- 6 -
direction, started working in 1979. The committee's program, though stili
rudimentary, consists of improving road traffie regulations, an educational
campaign, regular vehicle inspection, and better road signs. The traffic
regulations will be reviewed by a regional committee under the Conseil de
l'Entente 1/, to achieve uniformity among the member countries. Vehicle
inspection is done by each Public Works subdivision--taxis every three months,
trucks every six months and others once a year--but is limited by lack of
installations and equipment. Those who comply do so mostly because the insur-
ance company requires a vehicle inspection certificate. Road signing and
marking, if any, is done as part of the initial road construction. The pro-
posed project would aid the Government in improving road safety (para. 3.10).
2.05      Although the official axle-load limit is 13 tons, a regional study
under the Conseil de l'Entente will be launched in 1981 to determine whether
another limit would be more appropriate; the Association has been involved
with the terms of reference for the study. The Government wants to enforce
the axle limit in order to prevent road deterioration, especially on the
interstate routes. To this effect, two weighbridges have been installed,
one at Parakou (but which is out-of-order after being damaged by an over-
weight truck), and another at Malanville; both control mostly traffic to
Niger. In the past, DRP personnel merely weighed vehicles, lacking any means
of enforcing legal limits. Enforcement at the Parakou weighbridge is now
assured by the presence of police; while the weighbridge is out of order,
the bill of lading is inspected and overloaded trucks are sent back to the
railway depot to unload as required. Still, violations seem quite common.
The DRP plans to repair the weighbridge at Parakou, and to install two other
weighbridges on the coastal road to check traffie in the south. As there
are no penalties for violations, appropriate regulations should be issued
and enforced. The proposed project would assist in improving regulations
governing axle load limits and enforcement, and would provide two new
weighbridges (paras. 3.10, 3.11).
E.   Road Administration
2.06      The Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing (MTPCI),
through its Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRP), is responsible for con-
struction and maintenance of the primary and secondary roads, and some 1,200
km of feeder roads. Responsibility for the remainder of the roads (mostly
unclassified) nominally lies with the Ministry of Interior and local authori-
ties, but will be taken over gradually by DRP. DRP has five divisions:
Road Maintenance, Equipment Maintenance, Feeder Roads, Studies, and Super-
vision of New Works (these are described under subsequent headings). The
Directorate operates through four district offices which in turn have three
to five subdivisions. The organization is shown in Chart 22135. The national
laboratory (CNERTP) operates as an autonomous state owned firm, but under the
supervision of MTPCH. The laboratory which is adequately equipped and staffed,
does materials testing for Government and contractors.
1/   The Conseil de l'Entente is an organization of Benin, Ivory Coast,
Niger, Upper Volta and Togo to promote and coordinate political,
social, and economic policies.



- 7 -
2.07      The structure and quality of senior technical management of DRP
are adequate. DRP's main problem is poor administration: cumbersome proce-
dures, insufficient staff and high turnover considerably delay works and
result in unnecessarily higher costs. For example, recently, two years have
elapsed between a call for tenders and delivery of the equipment. To overcome
this deficiency, an Administrative Division is being set up to improve anci
accelerate DRP's processing of contracts, purchases, payments, analytical
accounting and other routine matters. So that this division can become
operational quickly, the Ministry is prefinancing the construction of office
space, under an extension to a contract for the construction of a building
for the Feeder Road Division, financed under the First Feeder Road Project.
The Ministry has already assigned some staff to the division, trained under
the First Feeder Road Project or under the Third Highway Project, and the
proposed Project would further assist in establishing the Administrative
Division (para. 3.03).
F.   Staffing and Training
2.08      DRP currently employs about 1,000 people of whom about 700 are
permanent employees and 300 (mainly laborers) are employed on an annual
basis with financing from the Road Fund. This nuiber is too large compared
to the equipment available; however, there are shortages of competent admini-
strative and workshop staff and middle-level managers. Like similar institu-
tions elsewhere, DRP and particularly its mechanical branch, suffer the usual
competition from the private sector. The creation of a limited number of new
posts for qualified personnel will not be difficult, but recruitment of
experienced people will be.
2.09      Until recently, Beninese engineers and technicians were trained
mostly in France or Bamako, Mali, but in 1980, the first three-year course at
the new College Polytechnique Universitaire du Benin was completed with 16
graduates in civil engineering of whom at least five are expected to join
MTPCH.  Training at "Adjoint Technique" level for civil engineering techni-
cians is given at the Complexe Polytechnique Coulibaly during a special
one year course financed under the Third Highway Project, which graduated
12 students last year, all of whom have entered DRP. At DRP's request, the
course is being repeated this year. The quality of the graduates is encourag-
ing and they are gaining experience fast within the various branches of DRP.
Mechanical technicians receive a sound training at the Regional Training
Center for Road Maintenance (Centre Regional de Formation en Entretien Routier
CERFER), in Lome, Togo. Benin has a quota of 15 places a year, as deter-
mined by its subscription to CERFER's running costs. MTPCH has requested an
increase in its quota but at present all that CERFER is able to offer beyond
the quota are special courses for field repairmen and equipment operators, to
be run during the center's vacations; the proposed project would finance the
Beninese participation (para. 3.06). Various colleges and trade schools
provide (very) basic training for lower level mechanics and tradesmen. The
IDA-financed skills upgrading center is nearing ecimpletion in Cotonou, but
will mainly benefit private companies.



-8-
2.10      The major needs at present are:  (i) for the new graduates to gain
on-the-job experience; opportunities for this are created by the various
expatriate-supervised feeder roads and regravelling brigades now operating
and to be continued in the proposed projects; and (ii) upgrading the skills
of the existing work force. Meeting this last need will be the main thrust
of the proposed project's training effort (para. 3.05).
G.   Road Planning
2.11      Road planning is done on an ad-hoc basis as a result of a rather
informal association between the MTC's Directorate of Studies and Planning
(which received three man years of expert assistance under the Third Highway
Project), DRP which does minor feasibility studies and traffic counts; and
the Ministry of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis. There is a
reasonable data base of transport statistics but there is little or no formal
planning at the road network level; the list of road projects which emerges
from this process is usually subject to close scrutiny by prospective lenders
by whom projects are subsequently fully appraised. At the feeder road level,
a capacity to appraise projects based on a proper data base and methodology
has been established in the Division of Rural Roads, created under IDA's
First Feeder Roads Project, and which has become the focus of the hitherto
uncoordinated rural road activities.
H.   Engineering, Construction and Procurement
2.12      The Divisions of Studies and Supervision of New Works reviews all
engineering studies, supervises new construction works with the assistance
of consultants as needed, and occasionally executes minor engineering work
and field surveying. Soil and materials testing for new works is done by
CNERTP. In the southern half of the country good materials are scarce and the
proposed project will support a small research by CNERTP into this problem.
Engineering and supervision for major road construction works is done by
consultants, and works are executed mainly by foreign contractors. In 1976,
the Government established a National Construction Company (Societe Nationale
de Construction et des Travaux Publics, SONACOTRAP), which in a joint venture
with a foreign firm, is executing resurfacing works under the Third Highway
Project. Other local, private contractors are mainly engaged in housing and
can only do small projects. Rather than develop private domestic contractors,
the Government intends to increase its own force account capacity for minor
road works and SONACOTRAP for major ones. However, small local firms would
build the drainage structures involved in the laterite roads rehabilitation
program (para 3.18).
2.13      With foreign donor assistance, DRP has developed its force account
capacity to carry out both periodic maintenance and rehabilitation/upgrading
of the laterite main roads and for feeder road construction. Two equipment-
intensive brigades are satisfactorily executing a regravelling program on
selected main roads with assistance provided under the Third Highway Project.
Each brigade has an output of about 80 km a year of 9-8m platform width and



gravelling on 7m, at an average cost of $13,000/km including technical
assistance. Five brigades are 'building feeder roads, one brigade financed
by EDF, and four under the First Feeder Road Project; two more are foreseen
under UNCDF financing. Four of these brigades are labor intensive with
minimum equipment back-up; each has recently achieved an output of about 45 km
a year, of 6-5m platform width, and gravelling over 4m, at an average cost of
$11,200/km, including technical assistance. The intermediate and the equip-
ment intensive brigades build about 75 km and 100 km a year, respectively, at
a similar cost.
2.14      Equipment-intensive brigades are used on main roads because labor-
intensive brigades are not economical for this kind of work. For the long
sections of the main network to be upgraded, an equipment-intensive brigade
can advance almost three times faster than a labor-intensive brigade, while
achieving better and more lasting quality and realizing benefits earlier.
Labor-intensive brigades, on the other hand, seem well-suited and economical
for building feeder roads, at least in the densely populated south where
labor is readily available and the prevailing monthly wage is CFAF 9,900;
soils and terrain conditions are also favorable inL this area. Already about
700 persons are employed in feeder road construction and many more for mainte-
nance. Laborers are recruited to work within commuting distance of their
homes, thereby avoiding transport and feeding on the site problems. A labor-
intensive brigade will be tried in the north under the Second Feeder Road
project.
2.15      Contracts for major highway projects are awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding. The Studies and New Works Division calls
for and evaluates bids; a representative of the President of the Republic must
by law participate in the evaluation. The Minister of Public Works signs the
contracts and the Minister of Finance countersigns. Government procurement
procedures provide adequate safeguards but their weakness lies in the long
delays they impose for even small contracts. DRP intends to investigate ways
to open accounts to be settled monthly with its major suppliers, including the
national oil supplier SONACOP.
I.   Road Maintenance
2.16      Routine maintenance is carried out at sub-division and sector
level (see Chart) by permanent DRP staff paid by the state budget. The
geographical coverage of sub-divisions is generally adequate; a new unit is
to be created at Pehunko when the existing sub-division at Natitingou is
upgraded to an "arrondissement".  Routine maintenance of paved roads is done
by DRP teams which have been re-equipped under the Third Highway Project.
Grading and ditch clearing are executed by machine, while the clearing of
pipes and culverts and patching are done by hand. Staffing levels are at
present "generous" but will hopefully become "adequate" with the increased
tempo of activity anticipated. Funds for wages, operations, and equipment
maintenance are not in balance, with equipment available resulting in an
under-utilization of labor. As a result DRP is mioving to more labor-intensive
methods of routine maintenance, and is devising umeans to finance equipment
purchases (para. 2.22). Special brigades for feeder road maintenance are



- 10 -
attached to each "arrondissement", but there is a proposal to redistribute
responsibility for feeder roads geographically among the subdivisions, and to
finance it by a small levy to be included in the official prices (baremes) of
cash crops.
2.17      Periodic maintenance of paved roads is done by contract.  111 km
are being resealed under the Third Highway Project, and there are no plans to
create any force account capability for this type of work. Periodic mainte-
nance of laterite roads is done by force account, according to annual programs
of works which are budgetted on a job-by-job basis. At present two brigades
are working, under the Third Highway Project, one in the north and one in the
south, manned by the staffs of the appropriate arrondissement and mostly with
equipment that was previously assigned to routine maintenance. Under the
proposed project, the teams would remain intact but be completely re-equipped.
Their existing equipment will be re-assigned to routine maintenance.
2.18      Mechanical repair and maintenance services are provided by the
Equipment Division (STI) which, although belonging to DRP also provides
services for Government cars in Cotonou and to private companies. Its main
workshops, stores and offices in Cotonou are more than adequate in extent, but
are ill-equipped for their task, under-financed and lack the administrative
means to obtain and pay for parts and materials quickly. Outside Cotonou
are an "annex" at Parakou, which was never really established physically or
financially, and the "garages" at each subdivision which handle only oil
changes and minor adjustments and replacements. The proposed project would
train workshop staff, establish two repair centers outside Cotonou, and supply
some additional equipment to the Cotonou workshops, (para. 3.04).
J.   Financing
2.19      DRP activities and road construction and maintenance are financed
from four principal sources.  New construction is financed mainly by multi-
lateral or bilateral agencies with the Government contributions of about 30%
of the cost of projects under its development budget through the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA). Periodic and routine road maintenance are
financed by the Road Fund (FR), set up for road maintenance and road related
studies in 1970, and which receives money from two principal sources: a
portion of the tax levied on sales of gasoline and diesel fuel; and contri-
butions from the state budget. In addition MTPCH has its own budget for
salaries of permanent staff, office and administrative expenses. Total
expenditures for road construction and maintenance are shown in Table 1.
2.20      The Road Fund is administered by a board chaired by the Minister
of Finance. An annual budget is established; the Director of DRP is res-
ponsible for the funds, and expenditure is administered by an accountant
proposed by the Ministry of Finance, which also audits the accounts.
Maintenance total funding although much improved is still not adequate.
Under the Third Highway Project, the Government agreed to increase alloca-
tions from all sources of maintenance from CFAF 400 million in 1976 to CFAF
900 million in 1980. 'While these levels have been observed, the mission



- il -
estimates that the minimum level required for FY 1982 will be CFAF 1300
million. The contribution from gasoline taxes, CFAF 4 per liter, represented
about 8% of the pump price in 1970, but is now only about 3-4% at present
fuel prices to consumers: CFAF 130, 127 and 104 per liter of super, reâular
gasoline and diesel oil respectively, including taxes of CFAF 30.85, 30.30 and
18.65, thus between 30% and 20% of the pump price. The contribution from
taxes is transfered from SONACOP directly to the FR and therefore although of
an amount which varies with fuel sales, is not subject to delays in availabil-
ity as are contributions from the state budget. The latter represent two-
thirds of total road fund revenues and the delays frequently cause liquidity
problems.
2.21      To give a greater autonomy to the FR and improve utilization of
its funds (i) the Ministry of Finance has now accepted in principle to make
quarterly transfers of its contribution to the FR, to be disbursed by it - a
shorter and quicker procedure; and (ii) about CFAF 1,300 million at 1980
prices are required for maintenance. A contribution at this level would
represent less than half the tax "bite", but two thirds of Road Fund revenue,
rising from the present CFAF 260 million to about 650 million. The Government
agreed at negotiations to the quarterly transfers, and to the road maintenance
budget levels.  It also agreed to raise periodically the contribution from
taxes, as required, rather than convert the tax to an ad-valorem basis.
Budget Format
2.22      At present the budget is divided into three major categories:
(i)  salaries of state employees and general administration
expenses;
(ii)  specific construction or maintenance jobs, tools and spare
parts; and
(iii) purchase of equipment.
The budget voted is always a reduction of that proposed by MTPCH and the major
cut is always the equipment item. Funds inscribed under category (ii) above
assume that salaries and equipment for any particular job will be provided
under categories (i) and (iii) but since funds under category (iii) have been
consistently denied, there is frequently insufficient equipment to make use of
operating funds. The Investment Budget, which theoretically should provide
for equipment, has not done so. This situation should change if a balanced
and efficient use of funds is to be achieved. The appraisal mission examined
the decree establishing the FR and put forward the suggestion, well received
by MTPCH officials, that in estimating the funds required for jobs in category
(ii) an amount for equipment amortization also bs estimated and included under
a separate heading to form the equipment renewal budget. It is clear that
other efforts to improve road maintenance would be of marginal value unless
this reform is introduced. This procedure has been adopted, already for the
1981 budget.



- 12 -
K.   Previous Highway Projects
2.23      PCRs have been prepared for two previous projects.  The Highway
Maintenance and Engineering Project was designed to prevent further deterio-
ration of roads due to inefficient administration and inadequate maintenance.
It included the purchase of maintenance and shop equipment; strengthening
the organization of the Directorate of Public Works; and detailed engineering
for reconstruction of the Parakou-Malanville road and two sections of the
Cotonou-Bohicon road. Completed in April 1974, it was in general judged a
success in the PCR dated June 1976, though important training and institution-
building aspects had to be dropped because of a lack of suitable trainees
or counterparts. The most notable success was the soils laboratory, re-
equipped and strengthened under the project, which today, as the Centre
National d'Essais et Recherches des Travaux Publics (CNERTP), is a strong
and respected organization. The reorganization of highway maintenance was
successful when viewed in 1976, but since then maintenance performance has
been poor, with the equipment fleet dwindling away.
2.24      The Second Highway Project had its success and its failures.  It
called for the rehabilitation of the Parakou-Malanville road (320 km) and
two sections (totalling 20 km) of the Cotonou-Bohicon road, and extension of
the Highway Maintenance and Engineering Project by providing additional
technical assistance and materials. The Parakou-Malanville road was com-
pleted in 1977 after delays caused by various administrative problems;
nevertheless the re-estimated rate of return was 30% rather than the 19%
estimated at appraisal. However, it is already evident that the 6 m wide
pavement is too narrow for the number of semi-trailers using it. The
Godomey-Bohicon road reconstruction (short sections only) was bedevilled by
a serious geotechnical problem at Godomey Dike, which could have been better
handled by the consultants both during the design and the construction
phases. A component designed to strengthen the management of road mainte-
nance had to be abandoned because of political instability in the country at
large, and an unusual rapid turn over of senior staff in the then Ministry of
Equipment.
2.25      The main components of the Third Highway Project consisted of
rehabilitation of the remaining sections of the Godomey-Bohicon-Abomey road;
resurfacing of 195 km of bituminous and 273 km of laterite roads; purchase
of maintenance equipment and spare parts; technical assistance to two direc-
torates--Roads and Bridges, and Planning and Studies--and a preinvestment
study of the Ouidah-Allada road. Implementation of the project has been
difficult. Many of the problems have stemmed from the lack of effective
administration within DRP and from slow and cumbersome administrative
procedures both within and outside MTPCH. These factors and misassumptions
about equipment for the brigades being available from DRP's existing fleet
have caused slow disbursement and poor equipment availability and field
progress. Although completion will be delayed, all components of the project
are now proceeding satisfactorily and within budget, except for the bituminous
resurfacing program. This program will run out of funds in about March 1981,
leaving work to the value of about $6.0 million uncompleted. Because of the
importance of these works, lengths of road, originally scheduled for resealing
only but which have now sections completely broken up, they are included in
the proposed project.



- 13 -
2.26      This picture may not appear optimistic" but recent events are
encouraging. Firstly, the new Minister and the niew Director of Roads and
Bridges have identified administration and financial control as crucial; the
restructuring of the budget (para 2.22) for example will certainly have a
greater impact on equipment availability than the mechanics training program.
There is a real awareness in ministerial circles at large of the strangling
effects of bureaucracy and a strong determination to do something about it.
Secondly the Third Highway Project has built up work teams and procedures that
need only new equipment and the logistic support that a reform of administra-
tion will bring, to become fully effective.
EXPENDITURE ON ROAD CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
1973-1979
(CFAF million)
1973   1974   1975   1976       1977     1978      1979
Total Expenditures           1,126  2,374  2,768  2,652    3,747    3,273    5,677
Maintenance 1/               402    401    404    427        448       625       629
Investments                  724  1,973  2,276  2,168    3,299    2,648    5,048
Balance to Reserves            -       -     88      57        -         -
Total Financing              1,126  2,374  2,768  2,652    3,747    3,273    5,677
Local Sources                561    674    793    654        828    1,297    1,642
Contribution
from taxes              250    223    243    252        258       327      281
Ordinary Budget           159    273    309    244        366       332      366
Special Budget            104    104    241    158        198       495      530
Balance from Reserve       48      74      -       -        6       1434/    4654/
Foreign Aid                  565  1,700  1,975  1,998    2,919    1,976    4,035
IDA                       149    657    636  1,198    2,071         508    1,6392/
EDF                       106    608    827    5003/    6703/  1,0043/  1,3393/
Nigeria                   225       -      -       -        -         -         -
USAID                       -    429    504    3003/    1413/    353          661
FAD                         -       -      -       -       37         4      385
BAD                         -       -      -       -        -       107        il
Others                     85       6      8       -        -         -         -
1/   Includes normal administration and salary costs of established personnel.
2/   Includes projects jointly financed wîth other agencies.
3/   The division into year of actual expenditure is estimated from known total
over the period.
4/   Includes 260 million CFAF in 1978 and 534 million in 1979 as provision
for local commitment to Cotonou New Bridge.
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement and Mission.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to continue the streng-
thening of the Directorate of Roads and Bridges, the improvements in the
efficiency of routine and periodic road maintenance begun under the previous
highway projects. To effect this objective the project will:
(a)  improve the organization and administrative procedures of DRP;
(b)  train field, workshop and office staff at different levels to
carry out road maintenance tasks;
(c) continue the program for rehabilitation of paved and laterite
roads; and
(d) institute axle-load control and road safety programs.
B.   Description
3.02      In order to carry out this program, the proposed project will
finance the following items:
(a) construction of office space for the new Administrative Division;
(b) the rehabilitation, expansion and re-equipping of existing work-
shop buildings at Parakou and Natitingou and some equipment for
the Cotonou workshop;
(c)  a training program for field, office and workshop staff of DRP;
(d) equipment, fuel, and supplies for two brigades to rehabilitate
500 km of laterite roads;
(e) rehabilitation totalling 35 km and resurfacing of 49 km, by contract,
of sections of the Cotonou-Hilacondji and Come-Lokossa roads;
(f) a research program on pavement construction materials in southern
Benin to be carried out by CNERTP;
(g) constructing and equipping vehicle weighing stations at Godomey
and Seme';
(h) providing a line-marking machine and road signs;
(i) constructing and equipping a vehicle inspection center in Cotonou;
and
(j) technical assistance for the above components: (i) aid in esta-
blishing the Administrative Division in DRP, 6 man-months; (ii)



- 15 -
training for field, workshop and office staff of DRP, 32 man-months;
(iii) assistance in the rehabilitation of 500 km of laterite roads
and 84 km of paved roads, 99 man-months; and (iv) starting up the
new vehicle inspection center in Cotonou, 6 man-months.
Administrative Division
3.03      Despite efforts under previous projects, ïnstitutional weaknesses in
DRP seriously hamper its effectiveness.  An Administrative Division is being
established within DRP, to handle procurement and supplies, administration of
contracts, cost accounting, finance and personnel matters (para. 2.07). The
proposed project would assist in financing office space. Six man-months of
administration and accounting specialists' time wilL be needed to establish
accounting, auditing, budgetting and stock-keeping systems. During negotia-
tions, appointment of these specialists to the Administrative Division and
availability of the office space and staff which was a condition for board
presentation, have been confirmed.
Workshops
3.04      DRP's efficiency has also been hampered by a virtual lack of work-
shop services outside its main Equipment Maintenance Division (STI) workshop
in Cotonou (para 2.18). Under the project, annexes of STI will be established
at Parakou (headquarters, Arrondissement North East) and at Natitingou,
(eventually headquarters, Arrondissement North West). Funds will be provided
for the re-furbishing and re-wiring of the three existing buildings at Parakou
and Natitingou which at present serve as garages and stores for routine
servicing at sub-division level, but which because of a lack of tools, funds
and administrative support, provide almost no service. The two new workshops
will be provided with fixed equipment, machine tools, hand tools and vehicles.
A store and an office will be included at each new location. Certain special-
ized tools and electrical equipment will also be provided for the main work-
shop in Cotonou. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the equipment
to be purchased, and schedules of work for building renovation are being
established. The agreed list of vehicles to be purchased for workshop use
is given in table 4.
Training
3.05      DRP's field, workshop and office staff require both on-the-job and
theoretical training. Most employees in the two existing rehabilitation
brigades have been working together as a team for the past two years but will
need practical training on the new equipment and some theoretical training.
Training for field staff in civil engineering subjects will be given by DIRP
engineers and members of the technical assistance team. Some workshops staff
exists at both new locations, but recruitment or internal transfer and train-
ing will be required. The project provides for 32 man-months of mechanical
and electrical instructors, whose duties will include overseeing the start-up
oh the new workshops. Workshop staff requiring theoretical training will
attend courses lasting from two to eight weeks with up to 10 students in each
cLass, depending on their trade and educational background. A detailed
training program for about 200 students has been prepared by DRP and consul-
tants to the Third Highway Project, covering about 16 months of course time.



- 16 -
Two rooms in an existing building at STI, Cotonou will be renovated and
equipped with teaching aids and materials to serve as a center for formal
training activities. On-the-job training will be given by the technical
assistance team and their Beninese counterparts with special emphasis on
administration and logistic support. STI employees will assist from time to
time for workshop courses, and will receive a small fee. During their train-
ing period, personnel will receive a daily allowance of about CFAF 1000 in
addition to their normal salary to cover the costs they will have by being
away from their homes; lack of such provision has frequently hampered partici-
pation in similar training programs. DRP intends at this stage that the
proposed center should be a small but permanent operation whose expansion
would depend on progress during the project. During negotiations, details of
the training program, terms of reference for the technical assistance and the
daily allowance were agreed upon; the training program will be reviewed and
agreed every year.
3.06      Higher level technician training will continue to be done at CERFER
in Togo. Given the high attrition of good technicians leaving to the private
sector, DRP would like to increase its quota at CERFER and is still pressing
its case. At present this is not possible, but if it should become possible
in the near future, the project would finance up to five scholarships for DRP
employees, to be approved by IDA, instead of the vacation courses already
offered (para. 2.09).
Gravel Road Rehabilitation
3.07      For DRP sùbstantially to improve its performance at routine mainte-
nance, it must eliminate the heavy backlog of periodic maintenance that grew
up during the years when resources of all kinds were inadequate. Two rehabili-
tation brigades composed of existing equipment to which were added a few new
machines, will have rehabilitated some 270 km of roads by the end of the Third
Highway Project. The proposed project will therefore provide new equipment
for two brigades; the existing equipment, or what will be left of it, will be
returned to routine maintenance duties. The project will also provide the
operating funds for three dry seasons, during which about 500 km of main roads
will be rehabilitated (Map 1).` Proposed construction standards are shown in
Table 1. Based on experience from the current project and new cost estimates
for inputs, the average cost per kilometer, including drainage structures,
technical assistance and equipment amortization, is estimated at $17,000 at
1981 prices. The table below shows the 371 km of roads which have been
selected for the first two years program (see chapter 4), and a further 130 km
will be selected during the second year of the project according to criteria
acceptable to the Association:
Section                       Class                    km
South:    Lokossa-Aplahoue                 M (Main)              37
Bohicon-Ahlan                   M                      51
Akplo-Adjohoun                   S (Secondary)         23
Ouidah-Allada                   M                      39
North:    Djougou-Parakou                  M                    134
Nikki-Kalale                     S                     50
Natitingou-Kouande               S                     37
371 km



- 17 -
Paved Road Rehabilitation
3.08      The Third Highway Project provided for the resealing of 302 km of
paved roads in the south of the country of which 107 km were financed by the
Kuwait and OPEC Funds, the remainder by the Association. Due to a combina-
tion of administrative and contractual delays and unusually heavy wet season
in 1978, and dollar devaluation, some 35 km of road deterioratea to the
point where base course reconstruction is now requ:Lred before resealing can
be done; costs of bitumen and of contract execution rose beyond the the
project envelope. Because of the location and importance of the works and
because no other source of financing is available, the project will provide
funds for their completion; they comprise 35 km of base course construction
in cement stabilized laterite, topped by a double surface treatment, and 49
km of double surface treatment on the existing pavement, and for technical
assistance to MTPCH for supervision.  Any preliminary works on the affecteea
sections will be done by DRP under routine maintenance. Wherever possible
existing materials will be recycled.
Materials Reseach
3.09      In a strip along the coast stretching 120) km inland, there is no
rock outerop, only occasional beds of very rounded pebbles of almost pure
quartz and little good laterite. The project will provide funds for research,
including some supplementary soil testing equipment, to look into methods of
overcoming the difficulties posed for road construction and maintenance by
this situation, mainly by developing methods of using naturally occuring
materials in the region. The benefits of successful solutions for these
materials would be substantial savings in haulage costs. The work will
be carried out by the Centre National d'Essais et de Recherches des Travaux
Publics (CNERTP) which enjoys a high reputation with consultants, contractors
and MTPCH.
Road Safety and Axle Load Control
3.10      In support of the newly-formed National Road Safety Committee
(para. 2.04), the project will provide for the following:
(a)  Construction of a vehicle inspection center and supply of minimum
testing equipment. The proposed project will provide an opensided
building containing two inspection pits and a small office, together
with a paved strip for testing brakes. Minimum equipment such as
portable decelerometers, and head light -alignment devices will be
provided. The center will be an experimtent, to be expanded/repli-
cated if successful.
(b)  Provision of a line marking machine, portable signs to protect road
maintenance crews, and traffic safety signals. The marking machine
will be a simple pedestrian-controlled mndel to be used by DRP road
maintenance staff.
(c)  Provision of 3 months of a road safety expert to assist in imple-
mentation of (a) and (b) above and to advise the Government on
setting up a national road safety campai,pn.



- 18 -
(d) Provision of weighbridges for Seme and Godomey.
Agreement has been reached on the scope of the road safety program, and on
the terms of reference for the expert.
3.11      New equipment and facilities will be of little use if adequate
regulations are not enacted or enforced. Under the present vehicle control
regulations, inspection is not a condition of grantinig a vehicle license
(vignette) nor is any form of sticker used to show at a glance that the
vehicle has passed inspection. So that the inspection center might have an
impact on road safety, the Government agreed during negotiations, to ensure
an adequate budget for the vehicle inspection service and to review its
procedures. Recommendations should be available by the time construction of
the center is completed. The Government also agreed during negotiations, to
enforce the axle-load limit of 13 tons or whatever value may be establishea
in the future, and to repair or maintain its existing weighbridges.
Technical Assistance
3.12      Included in the above components, a total of 130 man-months of
technical assistance will be provided to DRP and the Directorate of Land
Transport to assist with project implementation, procurement, training,
contract supervision, setting up of the administrative service, road safety
and axle load control. The composition of the team is shown in Table 2. The
proposed project is essentially a continuation of the Third Highway Project,
for which technical assistance has been provided by consulting engineers
Lavalin International (Canada). The present team has impressed both DRP and
IDA engineers with the manner in which they have integrated themselves into
DRP and have avoided setting up an "enclave" management unit. Accordingly,
DRP proposes and IDA agrees, to reappoint Lavalin without soliciting other
offers. Outline terms of reference for the team are shown in Annex 1, and
were agreed at negotiations.
C.   Cost Estimates
3.13      The total cost of the project including contingencies, is estimated
at $20.3 million equivalent, with foreign costs of about $14.3 million (71%),
net of taxes. The Government has agreed to exempt the project from taxes,
except for taxes on spare parts purchased from local suppliers, about ~36,000
equivalent. More detailed cost estimates are given in Table 3.
----000 US$------
Local   Foreign   Total   % Foreign
Administrative improvements                   121       111      232       48
Workshops                                     255      818    1,073        76
Training                                      242      326       568       57
Rehabilitation of laterite roads,
inciluding materials research            2,831    5,979    8,810        68
Rehabilitation of bitumen roads             1,163    4,597    5,760        80
Axle load control and road safety             179      157       336       47
Sub-total                        4,791   11,988   16,779
Contingencies                               1,161    2,360    3,521
Total                            5,952   14,348   20,300        71



- 19 -
3.14      Estimates of the cost of equipment and fuel are based on enquiries
made to local suppliers (Table 4).  Brigade operating costs are based on
experience from the current project and expected input prices.  Spare parts
are estimated as 20% of the cost of the equipment.  The cost of building works
is based on recent local experience under the First Feeder Roads Project, and
the cost of specialized equipment on the consultants (Lavalin) report. The
cost of technical assistance is based on man-month unit prices for similar
services in Benin under the Third Highway Project. The billing rate for
consultant services is estimated at an average $10,100 per field man-month and
includes salaries and overheads (home office expenses, expatriate allowances,
social security and other indirect expenses). Reimbursable expenses payable
to consultants are estimated at $3,500 per field mian-month including housing,
internal and external travel, and telecommunications. Fellowships to CERFER
are estimated at $5,000 a year including travel, if required; daily allowances
of CFAF 1000 per local trainee will be allowed. The cost of the materials
study is based on estimates prepared by CNERTP.
3.15      Physical contingencies have been included at a rate of 10% for most
items. On items purchased for the project there is little difference between
domestic inflation rates and rates in principal supplier countries; price
contingencies have therefore been calculated on the basis of the following
combined rates: 1981 9%; 1982 8.5%; 1983 7.5%; 1984 7.5%. Total contingen-
cies are $3.5 million or 17% of total cost, of which price contingencies are
$1.9 million or 9.4% of total cost.
D.   Procurement
3.16      Road making equipment and vehicles, workshop tools and equipment
and weighbridges (amounting to about US$5.6 million) will be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Bid
analysis will be based on price, after-sales service and where justified,
standardization; Government bid analysis procedures are satisfactory. Bidding
documents were prepared by DRP, assisted by consultants Lavalin, under the
Third Highway Project; list of equipment for the brigades and workshops were
agreed upon at negotiations (Table 4), as well as bidding documents. As the
awarding of contracts is usually protracted, and in order to accelerate the
procedure, the Government launched the bids in April 1981; they will be
analyzed soon after Board presentation, and letters of intent will be sent to
the chosen suppliers immediately thereafter.
3.17      Spare parts whose need can be definitely predicted, and sufficient
consumables for the project (cutting edges, scarifier teeth, oil filters, etc)
will be purchased by ICB, under the equipment supply contract. Because of
previous poor experience with advance purchases, ad[ditional spares will be
purchased tax free from local suppliers (by local tendering where more than
one source is available) as they are required. Hoowever, urgently required
spares up to a total value of $180,000 may be purchased in small quantities,
tax paid, from suppliers stocks in hand, to avoid delay due to tax exemption
procedures. Laboratory equipment, furniture, and office supplies will be
purchased by international or local shopping. Fuel and other petroleum
products will be supplied under contracts with the state oil company SONACOP,
which has recently adopted a uniform, nationwide price structure and whose
distribution capability has improved. Building materials for force account
building rehabilitation and pipe culvert manufacture will be procured through



- 20 -
limited international tendering. Larger drainage structures and major build-
ing rehabilitation will be executed by contracts procured through LCB. A
limit of $100,000 equivalent for any one contract and of $500,000 equivalent
in aggregate has been agreed for all procurement not subject to tendering.
E.   Implementation
3.18      Responsibility for project implementation will rest with DRP,
which will be supported by technical assistants integrated into the normal
workings of DRP, and for relevant parts of the axle load control and road
safety program, with DTT also, DRP has agreed that the counterpart to the
mission team leader will be its Chief Road Maintenance Engineer; he will also
take an active part in running the southern brigade when its chief is in the
north. The expatriate brigade chief will have no formal individual counter-
part; instead, he will work closely with the head of the subdivision and the
Beninese brigade chief in each of the areas where the brigades are working;
as will the brigade mechanic.  DRP will appoint a counterpart to the Mechanic
Instructor with qualifications acceptable to IDA; the Government has agreed
to this being a permanent position. These counterpart arrangements were
confirmed at negotiations.
3.19      The paved road rehabilitation is in progress under the Third
Highway Project. The paved roads expert will be responsible to DRP's New
Works engineer for supervision of this contract, but will have no direct
counterpart because his appointment is for six months only and DRP does not
have an engineer to spare. The two laterite brigades, working over three dry
seasons, are expected to complete 500 km of rehabilitation. One brigade will
begin work in the north and one in the south, beginning with the roads having
the highest rates of return in their respective regions. The program to be
executed during the third year will be agreed during the second year of the
project.
3.20      Small drainage structures (totalling $1 million) will be built by
force account or by small contractors, who will be supplied with materials by
MTPCH. They will be selected on the basis of invited bids from small contrac-
tors known to the local MTPCH subdivision office, which will supervise the
works. For larger works, such as bridges ($1 million), bids will be invited
from qualified domestic firms.  Contracts will be awarded under MTPCH proce-
dures which are adequate, and administered and supervised by it, with the
consultant's assistance. Improvements to buildings will be done by force
account or by domestic contractors selected by LCB. Works on the paved roads
are covered by a contract with COLAS/SONACOTRAP, under the Third Righway
Project.
F.   Financing, Disbursements and Reporting
3.21      The project is being jointly financed by the Association, the OPEC
Fund and the Government. The OPEC Fund is making a loan to the borrower of
$6 million equivalent (about 30% of total costs) exclusively for foreign
exchange costs, 60% of equipment purchases and 55% bitumen roadworks. Loan
conditions are similar to those of the Association. The IDA allocation of
$11.3 million will finance about 58% of foreign costs, about 50% of local
costs, or about 55% of total costs. The Government will contribute $3.0
million equivalent or 15% of total costs and 50% of local costs, all in local
currency, including $36,000 equivalent in taxes on small items to be purchased



- 21 -
"off the shelf" from local suppliers. The IDA crectit will be disbursed on the
following basis:
100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures on fuel, mate-
rials, spare parts, technical assistance and CERFER scholarships;
87% of expenditures on rehabilitation of paved roads by contract made
prior to signature of the OPEC loan, and 32% thereafter;
75% of expenditures on buildings, drainage works by contract, and mate-
rials research; and
40% of expenditures on tools, equipment, vehicles, teaching materials,
and weighbridges.
The financing plan is shown below:
---------------US$ million-------------
Local    %    Foreign    %    Total    %
IDA        3.0      (50)    8.3       (58)   11.3   (55)
OPEC        -         -      6.0      (42)    6.0   (30)
BENIN      3.0      (50)      -         -     3.0   (15)
6.0     (29)   14.3       (71)   20.3  (100)
3.22      Disbursements will include about $130,000 in retroactive financing
for office construction for the administrative division (para. 3.03), the
cost of which is being temporarily financed by the Government. Credit funds
of up to US$1.5 million will be used for either payments to the contractor for
the paved road rehabilitation executed between the date of exhaustion of
Credit 746-BEN funds and effectiveness of the proposed credit, or re-imburse-
ment of payments made by the Government for this work in the interim. Since
OPEC loan funds cannot be used for retroactive financing, IDA will reimburse
87% of these payments up to the date of signature of the OPEC Loan, which is
expected on June 30, 1981, and 32% thereafter. This percentage will be
adjusted if signature is delayed, so that the total amount of the OPEC con-
tribution to the paved road works will be $3 million. IDA will finance a
revolving fund of $400,000 at a suitable bank in Benin, to be managed by the
Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement. This continues a practice established under
the previous project; it will be replenished on the basis of Government
reimbursement applications, and IDA funds will be kept separate from Govern-
ment funds.
3.23      A disbursement schedule is shown in Table 5; it is expected that the
credit will be fully disbursed by March 1985. Requests for disbursements
against the elements of the project will be fully documented, except for the
force account elements which will be against certificates of expenditures;
detailed documentation will be retained by the borrower and available for
inspection by the Association. Analytical accounting will be established and
coordinated with that which will be instituted for the Second Feeder Road
Project. The borrower will submit a progress report to the Association every
three months, and a project completion report within six months of the physi-
cal completion of works, as agreed during negotiations.  Auditors acceptable
to the Government and the Association will be employed to ensure the Project's
adherence to good financial management through regular annual audits of the
accounts and the revolving fund.



-22-
Chapter III
Table 1
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Construction Standards
Main         Secondary
Roads        Roads
Cleared width              15 m          10 m
Formation width             9 m           8 m
Gravelled width             6 m           5 m
Minimum horizontal
curve radius              450 m         250 m
Maximum gradient            6 %           8 Z
Minimum vertical
curve radius: Hog        3000 m       1500 m
Sag       2200 m        1500 m
Minimum Pavement thickness for main roads 15 cm
Source: Mission and Consultants recommendations.



-23-
CHAPTER III
Table 2
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Team Member                                       Man/Months
Mission Chief (highway engineer)                       33
Highway Engineer (paved roads)                          6
Brigade Chief                                          30
Brigade Mechanic                                       30
Electrician Instructor                                 10
Mechanic Instructor                                    22
Road Safety Specialist                                  6
Administration Specialist(s)                            6
143
The man/months quoted are net of vacations.



-24-
BENIN                                        CHAPTER III
Table 3
FOuRTH HIGPWAY PROJECT
1/
Cost Estimates (Net of Taxes)
(at September 1981 prices)
2/                                         %
CFA Francs Millions               us$'000               %    Financed
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign  by IDA
Institutional Developiment
1. Administration
a)  Office building                                17.9       10.1   28.0        81       46       127    36        75
b)  Office furniture                                 2.9       3,1    6.0        13       14        27    50        75
c)  Technical Assistance 6m/m                       6.0       11.2   17.2        27       51        78    66        90
5        13
Physical contingencies, 10% on (a)           1.7       1.1    2.8         8
Price contingencies, 6.3%                    1.5        .2    1.7         7        1         8
30.0      25.7   55.7        136    117        253
2. Workshops
a)  Improvements to buildings                      38.4       21.6   60.0        175      98       273    36        75
b)  Tools, equipment and furniture                  17.6    158.4  176.0          80    720        800    90        40
Physical contingencies, 10% on (a),(b)  5,6           18.0   23.6         25      82       107
Price contingencies, 13%                     8.0      25.7   33.7         36    117        153
69.6    223.7  293.3         316  1,017      1,333
3. Training
a)  Fitting out of Training Center                   3.3       2.0    5,3         15       9        24    36        75
b)  Teaching materials                                 0       5.2    5.2          0      24        24   100        40
c)  Operating costs                                  3.5         0    3.5         16       0        16      0        0
d)  Local instructors                                5.0         0    5.0         23       0        23      0        0
e)  Instructors 32 m/m                             30.7       59.3   90.0        140    270        409    66        90
f)  Daily allowances                               10.5          0   10.5         48       0        48      0        0
g)  CERFER/scholarships                                0       5.2    5.2          O      24        24   100        90
Physical contingencies,l0% on (a)-(g)   5.2            7.2   12,5         24      32        57
Price contingencies, 11.5%                   6,8       9.0   15.8         31      41        72
65.1      87.9  153.0        297    400        697
4.  Laterte Road Rehabilitation
a)  Purchase of equipment for two brigades    52.8    202.7  660.0               240  2,760    3,000    92          40
b)  Fuel and materials                              28.6    257.4  286.0         130  1,170    1,300    90          90
c)  Spare parts                                    24.2    107.8  132.0          110îo    490      600    83        90
d)  Wages                                         132.0          0  132.0        600       0       600      0        0
e)  Drainage vorks by contract                    281.6    158.4  '440.0    1,280    720    2,000    36             75
f)  Technical assistance 93m/m                     94.6    182.6  277.2          430    830    1,260       66       90
g)  Materials research by CNERTP                     9.0       2 0   11.0         41       9        50    20        75
Physical contingencies, 10% on (a)-(g) 62.3    131.5  193.8              283    598        881
Price contingencies, 13.4%                118.8    167.2  286.0          540    760    1,300
803.9  1,614.1 2,418.0    3,654  7,337   10,991
5. Paved Road Rehabilitation
3/
a)  Reconstruction and resealing by contract 249.9  1,000.1 1,250.0   1,136  4,546    5,682    80                   87 (32)
b)  Technical Assistance for supervision             6.0      11.2    17.2        27      51        78    66        90
6m/m
Physical contingencies 10% on (a)           24.9    100.1   125.0        113    455        568
Price contingencies, 5%                     15.0      55.0    70.0        68    250        318
295.8  1,166.4 1,462.2   1,344  5,302    6,646
6. Axle-Load Control and Road Safety
a)  Supply and installation of weighbridges   20.2            13.4    33:'6       92      61       153    40        40
b)  Construction and equipment                     12.7        7.3    20.0        58      33        91    36        75
Vehicle Inspection Center
c)  Road marking and signing equipment              0.5        2.6      3.1        2      12        14    87        40
d)  Technical assistance 6is/m                       6.0     11.2    17.2         27      51        78    66        90
Physical contingencies,10% on (a)-(c)   3.3            2.4      5.7       15      il        26
Price contingencies, 6.3%                    2.5       1.5      4.0       il       7        18
45.2      3F.4    83.6       205    175        380
TOTALS              1,309.6  3,156.2    4         5, 952   1       20,300
1/  All prices are net of tax except spare parts (4c), for which the local cost includes taxes of $36.000 equivalent.
3/  At  CFAF  220 = $1
After signature of OPEC Loan,agreement, IDA's contribution to Item 5(a) will reduce to 32%.



-25-
CHAPTER III
Table 4
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for Two Brigades
I/
Unit Cost            Total
CFAF     Dollars  CFAF       Dollars
Item                              Number  Mil.        '000    Mil.       t000
Bulldozer 200 HP                          2     45.1        205    90.2         410
Bulldozer 150 HP                          2     28.6        130    57.1         260
Graders   120 HP                          4     22.0        100    88.0         400
Tyred loader 130 HP                       3     26.5        120    79.5         360
Cômpactors                                2     12.1         55    24.2         110
Dump Trucks 8m3                          10     13.2         60   132.0         600
Water tankers 10,000 liters               4     14.3         65    57.2         260
Fuel tankers (towed) 12.000 liters        2      5.5         25    11.0          50
Agricultural tractors 60 HP               2      4.4         20      8.7         40
Field service trucks                      2     22.0        100    44.0         200
Flat bed trailers                         2      1.1          5      2.2         10
Pick-ups                                  4      2.2         10      8.8         40
Vibrating rollers                         2      3.3         15      6.5         30
Towed rollers                             2      3.3         15      6.6         30
Miscellaneous; pumps, compressors,
concrete mixers,etc.    -         -           -    44.0        200
Total            -        -          -   660.0       3,000
Vehicles for Workshops
Tractor and low bed trailer (30T)         1     24.0        109    24.0         109
Pick-ups                                  4       3.8        17    15.0          68
Service truck with crane                  2      6.0         27    12.1          55
Total                                      51.1        232
1/  At CFAF 220 - $1 and estimated September 1981 prices, net of taxes.
Sources: LVI and local suppliers, July 1980.



-26-
CHAPTER III
Table 5
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements from the Credit
(US$'000)
IDA FISCAL YEAR                            CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT
& QUARTER ENDING                              AT END OF QUARTER
FY82
September 81                                       900
December  81                                     2,300
March     82                                     4,140
June      82                                    5,500
FY83
September 82                                    6,860
December  82                                     7,360
March     83                                     7,800
June      83                                    8,240
FY84
Septexmber 83                                   8,680
December  83                                     9,240
March     84                                     9,830
June      84                                   10,410
FY 85
September 84                                   11,020
December  84                                    11,200
March     85                                    11,300
The Credit is expected to be closed on June 3a, 1985



- 27 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.01       A major benefit of the project will be its institution building
impact, which should strengthen DRP's capacity to plan and carry out its
functions efficiently. DRP's budget will be increased and made available
quarterly, to enable road maintenance to be planned and to allow regular
purchases of road equipment; equipment now being u;sed for rehabilitation
will also revert to road maintenance.  DRP's buildings, both administrative
and workshops, will be improved or expanded to handlie the required workload,
and staff will be appointed and trained. DRP's cumbersome administrative
procedures will be reviewed. Cost accounting will be introduced, allowing
better financial management.
4.02       Institutional capacity will also be strengthened to improve road
safety. Road regulations and penalties for violat:ions will be reviewed and
a program will be established based on recommendat:ions by experts. Many
old and unfit vehicles circulate in Benin and pose a threat to driver and
pedestrian safety.  The present vehicle inspection system lacks means and
under the project, a start will be made to improve it, through a new vehicle
inspection center at Cotonou and stricter enforcement of rules; accidents
should be considerably reduced. If the effort proves successful, more centers
can be replicated. Similarly, two more weighbridges will be installed on the
coastal road; they will be operated as on the north-south paved road, by DRP
staff, with a police presence who will be able to enforce penalties for
overloaded vehicles. It is thereby expected that overloading will diminish,
and that the coastal road improved under previous IDA projects, will in fact,
last its expected life.
4.03       The most visible project element, however, maybe be the road
rehabilitation program: 84 km of paved main roads, and 500 km of gravel
roads, about 150 km in the south, serving the more densely populated areas
and carrying a relatively high traffic, and some 350 km in the north, where
both population and road network densities are lowest.  Beneficiaries are
many and widespread - about 400,000 inhabitants are in direct areas of
influence. Vehicle operating costs will be reducedL, in some cases by one-
half, and benefits are expected to be passed on to users. The rate of return
for the rehabilitation program would be about 30%, based on expected costs and
vehicle operating cost savings as the only benefit; the return would be even
higher if other benefits were included. Details of the evaluation are given
below.
4.04       No attempt has been made to estimate a rate of return for the
institutional improvements, but they are essential for more efficient and
cost-effective operations in DRP.



- 28 -
A. Laterite Road Rehabilitation Program
4.05      Benin has about 2,350 km of gravel roads and as many as 1,300 km
of these are in poor condition because Benin has not had the means to carry
out proper maintenance. DRP, with the assistance of consultants Lavalin,
carried out a quick screening of road conditions and traffic and scaled down
the length to be reviewed in more detail to 750 km. Of these, the sections
which would yield the highest return, about 150 km in the south and 22 km
in the north, totalling 371 km, have been selected for improvement during
the first two working seasons of the brigades; the 129 km to complete
the 500 km program will be selected during the second year of works, taking
into consideration developments up to that time. It is expected that the
brigades will rehabilitate about 165 km per year during the project.
4.06      Rates of return for individual road sections were obtained from a
rehabilitation cost based on quantity estimates derived from the present
road condition, brigade output achieved under the Third Highway Project, and
1980 unit prices including equipment depreciation and technical assistance
cost. A 50% residual value was assumed for the drainage works at the end of
the economic life of the rehabilitation/regravelling, considered to be seven
years. Only vehicle operating cost savings have been considered as benefits,
based on 1980 traffic counts supplemented by origin-destination surveys
where traffic diversions might be expected following improvements. No
generated traffic has been included in the analysis, and traffic projec-
tions are based on past trends and expected agricultural, industrial develop-
ments; an average of 5% p.a. growth is expected, except on the Nikki-Kalale
road where, because of the Borgou rural development project being prepared
by the Bank, and already prevailing higher growth, about 11.5% p.a. is ex-
pected. Basic road section data are shown in Table 1, and vehicle operating
costs, in Table 2. The individual rates of return would be as follows:
Section                   km   %RR
South:  Lokossa-Aplahoue             37    84
Bohicon-Ahlan               51    79
Akplo-Adjohoun              23    57
Ouidah-Allada               39    33
North:  Djougou-Parakou             134    35
Nikki-Kalale                50    13
Natitingou-Kouande          37   il
4.07      The overall rate of return would be about 34%.  It is based on
the road rehabilitation project cost (Table 3, Chapter III) and work
schedule, including 75% of the technical assistance cost considered to be
directly attributable to this program rather than broad institutional
support. A 25% residual value of the equipment after completing three
working seasons or the expected 500 km was included. The benefits con-
sidered are the same as for the individual road section analysis, considering.
that the highest return roads would be improved first. For the 130 km still



- 29 -
to be selected, traffic and benefits on the following priority sections
identified in the consultant report were retained.  Although it should be
expected that the overall return would be higher if both brigades were to
complete all the southern sections having highest returns first, it is only
negligibly higher than if one brigade starts working in the south and the
other starts in the north, tackling successively the highest priority
sections in each area; the latter approach would be politically and socially
more acceptable. The work program was agreed upon at negotiations for the
identified 371 km (Table 3).
4.08      The beneficiaries will be mostly the people living in the roads'
areas of influence, since they mostly serve local traffic. This is reflected
by that passenger cars and pick-ups constitute from 70 to 85% of the traffic
on the selected sections. Passenger cars, usually wagon-type and employed as
"taxis," carry up to 9 passengers, and pick-ups carry up to 20 passengers,
each in turn carrying some load. There are few heavy trucks, in some cases
simply because the road condition would not enable their circulation.
4.09      Although nominally, the Ministry of Transport establishes fares,
the private transporters charge what the market will bear (para. 2.03):
market women do not make great profits, and transporters know they have to
charge less than that profit or they will have few passengers. In order to
have traffic transporters apparently are cross-subsidizing customers, so
those living on good roads where demand is high and iwilling to pay more, pay
in fact fares enabling a benefit to compensate for t'he losses transporters
have on poor condition roads where people could not pay a fare covering the
cost.  The per capita income of the rural populations both in the north and
the south, is less than $100 equivalent, and the transporters profit margin
is very low. Some typical fares and operating costs reported in the Atacora
province are shown below:
CFAF fare
road         per              per         CFAF per veh-km
Section             km  condition   passenger          pass-km    income  ec. op. cost
Natitingou-Pehunko   75   6-5.5           500              6.67         60          71
Natitingou-Kouande   37      6            350              9.46         85          76
Natitingou-Djougou   76      3        600/300 (return)  7.89/3.94   71/35           51
Djougou-Pehunko       71    6.5                                         63          81
Besides the private transporters, there are regional non-profit transport
corporations, started with Government funds, but thereafter operating autono-
mously and reported to be financially balanced; these corporations run cars,
pick-ups, and trucks, and charge the official rate of CFAF 22/t-k.
4.10      As such a transport system exists, an overall lowering of costs
would be reflected in overall lower fares. Vehicle operating costs will be
reduced in some instances to one half of current costs, and a sizeable fare
reduction is expected to prompt more transport demand and eventually increased
crop marketing. The north has a great potential for expanding its surplus,
and the south will need increasing amounts from outside as the land is being



- 30 -
used almost to capacity. The CARDERs in each region are carrying out develop-
ment programs to improve or increase production. There are no official prices
for food crops and the market system should provide enough incentive: goods
sell at twice their producer price in small or regional markets, but at three
to four times their cost in the coastal areas and particularly in Cotonou.
B.   Paved Road Rehabilitation and Resurfacing
4.11      The Third Highway Project foresaw the resurfacing of 195 km; a
rate of return of 155%, or still 12% even with a sixfold cost increase, was
expected.  The roads were originally completed to paved standards in 1965/67
and have since not received any resurfacing, as the DRP lacked paved road
maintenance capability; the staff being trained and the equipment provided
under the Third Highway Project will form the basis for patching units to be
assigned to the districts. The resealing is progressing well, but because of
delays causing some 35 km scattered over the various sections to require
reconstruction instead of resealing, inflation and dollar devaluation, only
111 km will be resealed with available funds. The actual cost increase of
the resealing works is about 100%, but the works remain fully justified with
a return above 100%.
4.12      The proposed project would therefore include the remaining 49 km
requiring resealing, and stretches of up to 3 km, totalling 35 km, requiring
reconstruction on the coastal road from Cotonou to Hilacondji and on the
Come-Dogbo road. The average traffic on the various stretches requiring
reconstruction is estimated at 1215 vpd in 1981, based on recent counts and a
growth rate of 5% p.a., and it has been assumed that the less trafficked road,
the Come-Dogbo road, with an average of 465 vpd in 1981, will be resealed
last. The rate of return for the improvement of the remaining 84 km is
expected to be 25%, based on the existing costs and considering conservatively
only operating savings from resealing as benefits under the Third Highway
Project. However, the rate of return would be considerably higher if (a) a
value was given to the uninterrupted traffic flow over the already resealed
sections that the improvement of the remaining short sections will enable, if
(b) the full operating cost increase over a more deteriorated road, as compared
to one requiring only resealing, was included, and if (c) the residual value
of the reconstructed sections was included in the seven-year economic life
considered for the resealing.
C.   Sensitivity and Risks
4.13      The laterite road rehabilitation program would have an estimated
34% rate of return; should the technical assistance cost be excluded, the
return would be 42%. There seem to be few risks involved in the project:
under the Third Highway Project, with shortages of adequate equipment and
slow administrative procedures, the production and cost targets are neverthe-
less being achieved. Under this project, trained people are in place, new
equipment is provided and administration should improve, so conditions would
be considerably better enabling also the scheduling target to be achieved.
Benefits have been included conservatively and in reality would be higher,
even more if "qualitative" improvements were to be quantified. In the event
that benefits were to be 20% lower, or costs higher, the return would still
be an accentable 25%.



- 31 -
4.14      There should be few risks with the paved road works.  As the contrac-
tor is already on place under the Third Highway Project, costs are known and
there should be no more delays. Nevertheless, should costs increase by 25%,
the rate of return is still a satisfactory 15%, and should the Lkenefits
mentioned in para. 4.12 be included, say an increase of 25%, the rate of
return would become 33%, but even this rate does not reflect the importance of
having the coastal road to Lome in good condition.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the following items were discussed and agree-
ment was reached on them with the Government:
(a) measures to increase the Road Fund liquidity (para. 2.21);
(b) the road maintenance budget, and inclusion of an equipment deprecia-
tion allowance (paras. 2.21, 2.22);
(c) scope of workshop building rehabilitation, workshop equipment
procurement, and related contracts documents (para. 3.04);
(d) a training program, terms of reference for a training consultant,
and daily allowances to trainees (para. 3.05);
(e) scope of road safety components, road regulations review and terms
of reference for an expert, (paras. 3.11);
(f) procurement procedures and timing (paras. 3.16 to 3.17);
(g) counterparts (para 3.18);
(h) disbursement procedures, analytical accounting, auditing and report-
ing (paras. 3.22, 3.23);
(i) work program for the brigades for their first two-year operation
and subsequent preparation of the third year program (paras. 3.19
and 4.05); and
(j) terms of reference for consultants to DRP (para. 3.12).
5.02      Availability of office accommodation at DRP headquarters has been
confirmed and staff has been assigned to the Administrative division (para.
3.03), and it is therefore proposed to provide up to $130,000 retroactively
under the project. It is also proposed to finance retroactively paved road
works to start when funds under Credit 746-BEN are exhausted (para. 3.22).
5.03      Agreement having been reached on the above items, the proposed
project is suitable for a credit of 9.3 million SDR's equivalent ($11.3
million) to the People's Republic of Benin on standard IDA terms.



BENIN
STAFF APPRAISAL MEPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PIOJECT
Road Rehabilitation Program, Basic Data
Lokossa-    Bohicon-       Akplo-       Ouidah-    Djougou-       Nikki-    Natitingou-
Section                               Aplahoue      Ahlan       Adjohoun      Allada       Parakou       Kalale       Kouande
Km                                        37           51           23           39          134           50            37
Surface typXe and condition            laterite      laterite    earth        laterite    laterite       earth         earth
1980 rating:
(2 = good laterite)                 (6.5)         (4.0)        (5.0)        (6.0)         (4.5)        (4.0)        (6.0)
(8 = impassable )
Rehabilitation cost ('000$)
Regravelling                       490          520          300          520         1620           660          730
Drainage                           160          170          100          130           440          215          160
Average cost/km                   17.570       13.530       17.390       16.670        15.370       17.500       24.055
Traffic
1980 vpd:                          120          184          126           68           104           67           36
cars                      78           83           61           36           18           15           12
pick-ups                  22           46           36           22           57           38           il
trucks                    16           35           17            9           26           13           il
semi-trailers              4           20           12            1            3            1             2
Growth rate %                       5            5            5            5             5           11.5          4
Population in area of influence        50,000        80,000       96,000       35,000       32,000       18,000       15,000
Rate of return %                          84           79           57           33           35           13           il       p e
SD A
Source:  Appraisal mission and consultante Lavalîn, 1980 



-33-
Chapter IV
Table 2
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs.
(FCFA/km, as of March 1980)
f
Track
Barely
Paved      Gravel     Earth       Track      Passable
Car                    35.16       43.09      51.38       65.82       86.83
Pick-up                36.62       46.01      52.83       72.18       99.81
Track                  94.47      130.09     149.02      198.75      270.00
Semitrailer           149.07      223.44     270.97      386.45      566.13
Surface Condition
Index                  1           2          3           5           7
Source: Lavalin International1 1980



Chapter IV
BENIN                                                                                Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTII HIGHWAY PROJECT
Laterite Road Rehabilitation Program
Otnon l!is)
---------- ------------------ Costs --------------------------------    ------------------------------------------Benefits -------------------------------------------
-  Fuel,                                                      Lokossa-    Bohicon-  Akplo-        Ouidah-  Djougou-  Natit1ugou-   Nikki-   To be  1/
Year   Equipment   Materials   Spares   Wages   Drainage   T.A.   Total    Aplahoue    Ahlan              Adjohoun   Allada   Parakou   Kouande           Kalale   Determined  Total
1       3,300          256                 110        350      260    4,276          0           0          0           0         0           0            0            0          0
2                      513        200      220        750      520    2,203         527         519        226         229        0           0            0            0        1,501
3                      513       300       220        750      520    2,303         553         545        237         240       867         174           0            0        2,616
4                      257        160       110       350      260    1,137         581         572        249         252       910         183          173          341       3,261
5       -825                                                                        610         601        266         265       956         192          194         363        3,447
6                                                                                   640         631        275         278    1,004          202          217          389       3,636
7                                                                                   672         662        288         292    1,054          212          243         414       3,837
8                                                                                   706         695        302         307    1,106          223          271.        443        4,053
9                                                                                                                              1,161         234          302         472        2,169
10                                                  -1,450                                                                                                 337         506          843
Rate of Return                  34%
Without T.A. Cost            42%
Benefit reduced 20%          25%
1/ 129 km to be determined; lestimated benefits based on 30 vpd in 1980 and a poor track.
Source: Appraisal mission and consultants Lavalin,         1980.



-35-
Chazter IV
Table 4
BENIN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1/
Paved Road Reconstruction/Resurfacing
(US$'000)
Vehicle
Operating
Year        Cost          Savings
1          2,800            290
2          3,080            914
3                         1,280
4                         1,344
5                         1,411
6                         1,481
7                         1,555
8-                        1,632
9                         1,714
Rate of Return 24%
+ 25 % Cost        15%
+ 25 % Benefits   33%
1/    84 km of Comé-Dogbo and of Cotonou-Hilacondji roads.
Source: Appraisal mission, 1980.



- 36 -                              ANNEX I
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance for Road Rehabilitation, Training and Road Safety
Outline Terms of Reference
The Task
Technical assistance is required:
1.        to assist the Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRP) in:
(a) completing the paved road resurfacing program;
(b) executing a second part of the laterite road rehabilitation
program;
(c) establishing an administrative division within DRP;
(d) setting up two new workshops;
(e) executing a training program for DRP staff.
2.        to assist the Ministry of Transport in:
(f) establishing procedures and equipment for the control of
vehicle axle loads; and
(g) setting up a road safety program.
The Team
3.        Eight or nine experts will be required for a total of 143 man-months
(net of vacations) as follows:
Man-Months
Mission Chief (highway engineer)                    33
Highway Engineer (paved roads)                       6
Brigade Chief                                      30
Administration Specialist(s)                         6
Brigade Mechanic                                   30
Mechanic Instructor                                 22
Electrician Instructor                             10
Road Safety Specialist                               6



- 37 -                               ANNEX I
Page 2
Their Qualifications and Duties
4.        Each team member should have:
(a) fluency in written and spoken French; and
(b) experience in a developing country, preferably in a public
works administration.
Mission Chief
5.        He should be a graduate civil engineer with at least ten years
experience in highway construction. He should also have had experience in a
public works administration and have a grasp of budgeting, procurement, cost
accounting and management. He will be responsible to the Director of Roads
and Bridges and his duties will include:
(i)  overall coordination of the work of the other experts, and liaison
between Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing, Ministry
of Transportation and the team;
(ii)  preparation of courses for the civil engineering parts of the
training program; and
(iii)  supervision of rehabilitation of existing buildings for new work-
shops and the training center, and for the construction of the
Vehicle Testing Center and the weighbridges.
Highway Engineer (paved roads)
6.        He should be a graduate civil engineer with at least five years
experience in the construction and maintenance of roads. He will be responsi-
ble for supervision (a) of the contract to complete the paved road rehabilita-
tion program begun under the Third Highway Project, and (b) of any associated
force account preparatory works.
Brigade Chief
7.        He should have at least seven years experience in the execution
of road works, and proven abilities in the management of construction teams,
including procurement and basic cost accounting. lIe will be required to
give on-the-job training across the spectrum of civil engineering skills
required in a brigade, and will divide his time between the two brigades.
Administration Specialist(s) _/
8.        He should hold a recognized qualification in business management
or cost accounting, and will have had at least seven years experience in the
1/   If a candidate with the required range of skills cannot be found, two
experts may be employed for a total of six months.



-38 -                                ANNEX I
Page 3
administration of an engineering organization, preferably a civil engineering
contractor or a public works administration. He will be based at Ministry of
Public Works, Construction and Housing headquarters in Cotonou and will assist
the Directorate of Roads and Bridges in the setting up of the proposed Admin-
istrative Division, in the establishment of its procedures, and in the training
of its staff. He will also assist the Mission Chief in the administration of
the project.
Brigade Mechanic
9.        He should hold a recognized trade qualification and have at least
seven years experience in the maintenance and repair of earth moving equip-
ment, trucks, and vehicles. He should have had some experience in workshop
management and will be required to give on-the-job training. He will be based
at STI Cotonou, but will make frequent visits to the brigades.
Mechanic Instructor
10.       He should hold a higher level mechanical technician-s qualification,
and in addition to the experience required for the brigade mechanic, he should
have had at least two years experience as a trade instructor. He will be
based at STI Cotonou, and will be responsible for the setting up and manage-
ment of the training center and for the preparation and conduct of mechanics
training courses, and will assist the mission chief in setting up the new
workshops at Parakou and Natitingou.
Electrician Instructor
11.       He should hold a higher level electrician's qualification and have
at least seven years experience in the repair, maintenance and testing of the
electrical systems and equipment found on earthmoving equipment, trucks and
vehicles, and at least two years experience as a trade instructor. Experience
of the electrical aspects of workshop equipment would be an advantage. He
will be based in Cotonou and will be responsible to the Mechanic Instructor
for.the setting up of an electrical section at STI Cotonou, and for the
preparation and conduct of electricians training courses. He will also assist
in setting up the new workshops.
Road Safety Specialist
12.       He should have at least five years experience in the road safety
field with, preferably, a bias towards vehicle construction and use regula-
tions.  He will be responsible for setting up the proposed vehicle inspection
center in Cotonou and a review of the regulations and procedures for vehicle
inspections. He will also be required to prepare a plan of action for the
National Road Safety Committee, for which detailed terms of reference will be
prepared by MT, following initial consultations.



- 39 -                               ANNEX I
Page 4
Reporting
13.       For tasks (a) to (e), the Consultant shall prepare and submit:
(a) an inception report, four months after the start of the project;
(b) two-monthly progress reports;
(c) a draft final report after two years, to be followed by a final
report 30 months after the start of the project.
14.       For tasks (f) and (g), the Consultant shall prepare and submit,
after one month, recommendations for the operation of the vehicle testing
center and for vehicle control regulations; and after three months, a draft
plan of action for the National Road Safety Committee.



-40 -                          ANNEX II
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Documents available in the Project File:
(1)  Preparation of a Fourth Highway Project in Benin, Lavalin Interna-
tional, Montreal (in 3 volumes in French).
(2) Budget of Ministry of Public Works, 1980.



-41-
BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing
Directorate of Roads and Bridges
DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
SERVICES                                                                                    Supervision    7         Equip  nt
SERVICES        Rtoald   Mintenance                        Feecder Roads            ofNw  ok                 Maintenance            Studies       Srie
AdministrationV                                    of Neiv Works           ~~~~~~~~~~~(STI) Cotonou
DITRICTS         |     Southern                   Central                  North West1   | I           North East
DISTRICS              |    Cotonou                     Bohicon                   Natitingou                  Parakou
Cotonou                     Bohicon                  aNtitingou        |          Parakou
SUB-            _ Porto Novo a                 Save                       Djougou                -  Kandi
DIVISIONS 
_  Lokosse          ~          Savalou                 _  Pehunko_j        |        NikkiiJ
Feeder Roads           -  Tanguieta!J             - BemberekelJ
Feeder Roads     I        Feeder Roads
IL
STI AnsexV        - _    -          STI AnnexV
Natitingou                           Parakou
1/ Seing established or upgraded.
7/ To be established under the Project
Worid Bank -22135






~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  -                                                                                                                           Y,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IR   52
>'r, je~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JJ r~
Ca ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~
c  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~                   -'---c'--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   7~
-c  c'  j                                                                                 2     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                         novecccc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



