Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3043-BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 27, 1927
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiad duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -    CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00           =    CFAF 220
CFAF 1 Million   =    US$4,546
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: Metric System
Metric                             British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)               2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                     2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                 1,308 cubic yards
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARDER     Centre d'Action Regionale pour le Developpement Rural
CERFER     Centre Regional de Formation en Entretien Routier, Togo
DRP        Direction des Routes et Ponts (Directorate of Roads and Bridges)
DTT        Direction des Transports Terrestres
FAC        Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FED        Fonds Europeen de Developpement
MTPCH      Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la Construction et de l'Habitat
STI        Services des Techniques Industrielles (Equipment Maintenance
Division)
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE-S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People&s Republic of Benin
Amount:             SDR9.3 million (US$11.3 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms
Co-lender:          OPEC Fund for International Development - US$6.0 million
Project
Description:       The objectives of the proposed project are to continue
efforts started under earlier Bank Group operations to
strengthen the Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRP),
particularly by improving its capacity to carry out
effective routine and periodic road maintenance. Speci-
fically, the project is designed to: (i) continue the
program for rehabilitation of paved and gravel roads;
(ii) improve the organization and administrative proce-
dures of DRP; (iii) train field, workshop, and office
staff at different levels to carry out road maintenance
tasks; and (iv) institute axle-load control and road
safety programs.
A major benefit of the project would be its institution-
building impact. The most tangible benefit, however, would
be derived from the road rehabilitation program in the form
of vehicle operating cost savings which would be passed
on to users. There are about 400,000 inhabitants in the
direct areas of influence of the roads. There is no major
risk associated with the project, as it is mainly a con-
tinuation of efforts under the Third Highway Project which
is progressing satisfactorily.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs (net of taxes)
(US$ Million equivalent)
Local          Foreign        Total
Rehabilitation of gravel roads
(including materials research)                   2.8              6.0           8.8
Rehabilitation of paved roads                     1.2             4.6           5.8
Administrative improvements                      0.1              0.1           0.2
Training                                         0.3              0.3           0.6
Workshops                                        0.2              0.8           1.0
Axle-load control and road safety program        0.2              0.2           0.4
Sub-total                                        4.8             12.0          16.8
Contingencies                                    1.2              2.4           3.6
Total                                       6.0            14.3          20.3
Financing Plan:                                 Local          Foreign         Total
-----------US$ million-----------
IDA                                              3.0              8.3          11.3
OPEC Fund                                         -               6.0           6.0
Government                                       3.0               -            3.0
6.0            14.3          20.3
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million equivalent)
FY82      FY83       FY84       FY85
Annual                   5.5      2.7        2.2        0.9
Cumulative              5.5       8.2       10.4       11.3
Economic Rate of Return:       About 30 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report No.: 3212 BEN dated April 9, 1981
Map: IBRD 15423



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the PeopleTs Republic of Benin for an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Special Drawing Rights 9.3 million (US$11.3 million)
on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fourth Highway Project. Additional
financing for the project would be provided by the OPEC Fund for International
Development in the amount of US$6.0 million on terms to be established in a
separate agreement between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Benin (Report No. 2079-BEN, issued
in May 1979) was the result of a basic economic mission which visited the
country in fall 1977. The paragraphs below are based on this report, but
include updated information. Annex I provides basic country data.
Introduction
3.        After independence in 1960, a period of instability characterized
by frequent changes in Government prevailed until the revolution in 1972 which
brought to power the military Government of President Kerekou. The new regime
immediately took steps to replace foreign dominance in the modern sector and
strengthen the Government's involvement in the agricultural sector. These
measures initially disrupted the economy since there was an inadequate number
of trained Beninese to replace the departing expatriates. Yet, the Government
also pursued conservative financial policies which resulted in budgetary
surpluses and the maintenance of the debt service ratio at less than 7 percent.
4.        Benin has now enjoyed a comparatively long period of political
stability under a tight, centrally controlled one-party system. Following
the adoption of a new constitution, Lieutenant Colonel M. Kerekou was recently
confirmed in early 1980 as President of the Republic for a three-year term by
the National Assembly. Mr. Kerekou has in turn appointed a civilian-dominated
Government.
5.        The nation is poised for a period of moderate growth propelled by
major investments in the industrial sector. But Benin's near term prospects
should be assessed with caution, because they are dependent on a few key
factors: the Nigeria and Niger markets, success of key industrial projects
and continuation of a prudent budgetary policy.
1/   The text of this section is essentially the same as that included in
the President-s Report for the Borgou Province Rural Development Project
which was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 12, 1981.



-2-
Recent Economic Developments
6.        With a population of 3.3 million people and a GNP per capita of
$250 (1979) per annum, Benin remains one of the least developed countries as
defined by the U.N. Over the 1976-80 period, the country enjoyed an average
real GDP growth rate of 4.6 percent, and a sound public finance position.
Exports are limited (US$170 million per annum) and little diversified (mainly
oil palm products and cotton). A large resource gap, 20 percent of GDP, is
shown over the 1975-80 period according to Central Bank statistics. The gap
is, in fact, smaller due to the substantial volume of informal, unrecorded
exports, primarily to Nigeria. Also, an important part of the remaining
shortfall is financed by a sustained inflow of workers remittances and
capital grants, leading to only a modest reliance on medium- and long-term
borrowing.
7.        Agriculture, which employs about 70 percent of the population and
generates about 40 percent of GDP (1980), has not substantially increased its
output over the past decade. With respect to export crops, cotton peaked in
1972 at 50,000 tons but has since fallen to around 15,000-20,000 tons. Palm
oil production continued to increase until the mid-1970s, but output has
been reduced since a severe drought in 1976. Institutional changes, insuffi-
cient farmgate prices, lack of financial resources and the absence of techni-
cal assistance are the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of
export crops. Foodcrop production, although beset by many of these problems
has fared somewhat better with sustained demand from Nigeria. The situation
of the sector in general is slowly improving under renewed Government support
through producer price increases, less interference with market forces,
and better climatic conditions.
8.        The industrial sector is still undeveloped due to a lack of skilled
manpower, smallness of the local market, and institutional constraints.  It
employs less than 2 percent of the labor force, contributes 11 percent to GDP
(1979), and consists mostly of processing of agricultural products and import-
substitution activities. The sector achieved an 11 percent annual growth rate
during 1972-76, but slowed down to 4.9 percent during 1977-80 because of a
fall-off in demand from the Nigerian market. Currently, Benin is beginning to
exploit its natural resources through several major industrial projects: the
Onigbolo cement factory (limestone), the Save sugar plant and the Seme off-
shore oil field.
9.        The tertiary sector (mainly transport and commerce) accounts for
about 40 percent of GDP (1980), and employs almost 40 percent of the labor
force. The port of Cotonou has traditionally provided access to the sea for
landlocked Niger and the western part of Nigeria. The Niger traffic through
Cotonou Port rose from 180,000 tons in 1973 to 529,000 tons in 1977, and
total transit traffic including Nigerian traffic rose to a peak level of
900,000 tons in 1979, and then declined slightly during 1980.
10.       As a result of a prudent budgetary policy, Benin has been run-
ning current surpluses averaging about 4-5 billion CFA during the last five



- 3 -
years. The government followed a conscious policy of controlling current
expenditures (which showed no increase in real terms during 1972-79) through
limits on salaries of civil servants and holding down maintenance expendi-
tures. It also derived increased revenues from the rise in cross-border trade
with Nigeria and from increased small-scale industrial activities (textiles,
beverages). However, the overall budgetary position has been in deficit
because of substantial expenditures on investments and government lending in
support of unprofitable state enterprises. In 1979, the overall deficit of
the central government budget rose to 16 billion CFA, nearly 3 times the
average level of the previous four years. This substantial shortfall was the
result of the government's efforts to mobilize resources for an accelerated
implementation of the Three-Year Development Plan (see para. 15). The defi-
cits have been financed mainly from external sources and domestic borrow-
ing.  For 1980, a 50 percent rise in the deficit was estimated, concurrently
with a quadrupling of domestic borrowing.
11.       Prices have been kept under control, and the overall rate of infla-
tion was limited to 9-10 percent in 1978/80. The increased economic activity
induced by the start-up of major industrial projects is likely to exert
continuous pressure on prices in the next few years, with an inflation rate
of 11-12 percent projected for 1981/62.
12.       The Government is committed to broad-based socio-economic policies,
but a key concern hitherto has been to keep wages and salaries low because
of limited public revenues. In real terms, both public and private sector
salaries have declined. Cash incomes of the farmers may have increased
slightly, the losses resulting from the drop in cotton production probably
having been made up by increased exports of maize to Nigeria. Thus, Benin
is one of the few countries in Africa where the urban-rural income gap has
not widened in recent years. Education is one of the Government's top
priorities. The Government is in the process of implementing reforms aimed at
both adjusting the education system to the needs of the country, and reducing
the high cost of formal education which absorbs 33 percent of the Government's
recurrent budget. Health facilities are still poor, and the social indica-
tors for Benin (literacy, life expectancy, etc.) remain well below the
average for low-income developing countries. The Government's objectives are
to expand health facilities in the provinces and to integrate modern and
traditional medicines, but few resources have been made available to accom-
plish these goals.
13.       One of the most serious threats to health is the lack of access to
clean and potable water both in urban and rural areas. The Government, with
the assistance of IDA, the African Development Bank, UNICEF and bilateral aid
is undertaking a program to develop public utilities in secondary centers and
wells in rural areas. But these investments remain negligible in relation to
existing needs.
The 1978-80 Development Plan
14.       A Three-year Plan (1978-80) was issued in October 1977, setting
out the Government's economic goals. Its stated objectives are to raise
the general standard of living, to strengthen national economic policies,



- 4 -
and to promote broad participation in the conception and implementation of
economic and social changes. Investment allocation in the Plan favors large-
scale projects. The major items are: the Cotonou Port extension (US$50
million) financed by IDA and seven other agencies; a 40,000-ton sugar project
at Save (US$210 million); a 500,000-ton cement plant at Onigbolo (US$159
million); and the Seme offshore oil production project (US$120 million),
estimated to yield a total of about 11 to 20 million barrels.  These projects
together account for some 50 percent of Plan investment.  Work on the Cotonou
Port is far advanced.  The sugar and cement projects are joint ventures with
the Nigerian Government, with Nigerian marketing and financing guarantees.
The production of sugar, cement and oil should commence around 1982.
15.       In fact, the rate of implementation of the Three-Year Plan has been
less than 50 percent of Plan objectives. Major difficulties include inade-
quate project preparation and coordination, delays in obtaining foreign finan-
cial commitments, and insufficient control over project execution. Recently,
however, the Government has succeeded in accelerating commitments from foreign
aid donors, and total public investment is likely to be some US$750 million in
the five-year period 1978-82. This represents an increase in the public
investment rate from 10 percent of GDP during 1972-77 to 19 percent in 1978-82.
Prospects
16.       The medium-term outlook for economic growth in Benin is moderately
optimistic. Real GDP growth during 1981-85 is expected to average 5-6 percent
per annum. The risks to Benin's economy are a slackening of export demand
and the negative impact of problems which may arise in implementing the large
projects. The benefits from these projects are, in turn, dependent upon price
agreements (with Nigeria in the case of cement and sugar). Benin-s agricul-
tural growth prospects will, moreover, depend on effective pricing and market-
ing policies in the rural sector. In the long term, Benin's growth potential
will be limited by a poor resource base to perhaps 4 percent per year, and
even the achievement of this rate will depend on the ability of Government to
channel resources and orient programs (in social and economic infrastructure,
training, marketing, etc.) towards the development of food and cash crops.
17.       Benin's public finance and balance of payments situation may fluc-
tuate more over the next five years than has been' the case in the preceding
half-decade. In the mid-1970½s conservative public policies led to budget
surpluses and a stable trend in foreign reserves. This partly reflected,
however, the lack of sizable new initiatives in public investment. The
situation is now changing with the increase in public investment which places
heavy demands on the Treasury for counterpart funding, and steps up the
pace of capital and intermediate goods imports matched by foreign financial
inflows. The balance of payments will undergo fluctuations between now and
1985 under the impact of the major projects. Since the large projects under-
way will heavily influence the trade balance and public finances, their
successful implementation is essential for Benin-s medium-term outlook.



18.        Benin's total external debt (including undisbursed), which until
the end of 1980 had remained relatively low (amounting to US$425 million with
a debt service equivalent to 4.5 percent of the country's exports), is expected
to rise substantially as investments increase and borrowing conditions harden.
The debt service ratio is projected to exceed 20 percent of exports in the
mid-1980s. This ratio is high, but up to 80 percent of the debt service is
accounted for by the large projects, two of which are guaranteed by Nigeria.
19.        In view of the country's low per capita income, the growing need for
external funding of priority projects in an expanding economy, and Benin's
narrow export base, it will be necessary to increase the volume of foreign
financing on concessionary terms. Benin is expected to be able to finance no
more than 10-15 percent of its overall public investment program; thus foreign
donors should continue to provide a large share of total project costs,
including some financing of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BENIN
20.        To date, the Bank Group has extended twelve credits to Benin, in-
cluding two supplementary credits, totalling US$104.8 million. Four of the
credits were for agriculture (32 percent of total lending), five for highway
construction and maintenance (45 percent), and one each for port expansion,
education and small-scale enterprises development. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank Group operations in Benin, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
21.        IDA's first operation in Benin was the HINVI Agricultural Devel-
opment Project (FY69) which provided for oil palm plantings and foodcrop
development. The project was completed in 1974. As stated in the Project
Performance Audit Report (M78-451 of May 19, 1978), poor rainfall delayed
palm tree development, while foodcrop production remained below appraisal
estimates mostly because of labor constraints. To overcome this difficulty,
an accelerated program of ox-drawn cultivation was initiated. Animal trac-
tion expanded rapidly, resulting in substantial increases in maize yields.
The project was successful in assisting SONADER, the executing agency, to
continue its good performance and supporting cooperative developments. The
second agricultural credit, the Zou-Borgou Cotton Project (FY72) has also been
completed (Project Performance Audit Report M78-353, April 20, 1978). This
operation aimed at expanding cotton and foodcrop production in the Zou-Bor8ou
provinces. Due to frequent changes in Government policy, and reorganization
of institutions within the sector, the project failed to achieve its objective
of increasing cotton production. Foodcrop production, on the other hand, was
expanded mainly due to growing demand from neighboring Nigeria. While the OLD
Report did not conclude that a larger maize component in the project would
have made it successful, experience suggests that agricultural packages should
be more diversified by combining export cash crops and staple food crops, with
the latter included to satisfy farners subsistence needs and to supply domes-
tic markets and those of neighboring countries. It was clear that careful
project monitoring was also necessary to provide a measure of flexibility to



- 6-
the implementing agency. The third project in the agricultural sector was tne
Technical Assistance Project (FY77) designed to strengthen the country's agri-
cultural institutions, carry out pilot projects, conduct foodcrop research,
and re-train extension services. Although the project did not fully meet all
the set objectives, it did result in satisfactory preparation of two follow-
up operations to the Zou-Borgou project (including appropriate measures to
improve the managerial and technical performance of the various executing
agencies). The first of these two projects focusing on the Borgou Province
was approved by the Executive Directors early in April 1981.
22.        The Bank Group's involvement in the transport sector in Benin began
in 1969, when the Bank acted as Executing Agency for a UNDP "Land Transport
Study." This study led to the financing of a four-year Highway Maintenance
Project in FY69. The Project Performance Audit for this project (Report No.
M77-758) of October 25, 1977 indicated that significant strengthening of the
Government department then responsible for maintenance operations occurred
under the project. The Second Highway Project (FY73), co-financed by USAID,
comprised the reconstruction of 320 km (Parakou-Malanville) and snort sections
(between Godomey and Bohicon) of Benin's north-south trunk road, continuation
of the road maintenance program initiated under the first project, and train-
ing. The project was satisfactorily completed. The rate of return of the
Parakou-Malanville road is estimated at 16 percent versus 13 percent at
appraisal, and 30 percent versus 19 percent at appraisal when including
benefits to Niger from its transit traffic. The Third Highway Project (FY78)
provided for further rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the Godomey-Bohicon
road and expansion of the maintenance program, including elimination of the
backlog in resurfacing bituminous laterite roads. Some of the bituminous
roads have now deteriorated to the point where full reconstruction is needed.
The related additional costs would be covered under the proposed project
(para. 45). A feeder road development program was initiated under the
First Feeder Road Project in FY77. This project has been completed, and a
second one to continue the program was approved earlier this fiscal year.
The major objective of a Port Project approved in 1978, is to raise the
cargo-handling capacity of the port by providing additional berth (660 m),
storage capacity, and technical assistance to improve port operations.
Implementation of the project has encountered technical problems resulting in
cost overruns, and Government is seeking supplementary financing from the
co-lenders.
23.        The First Education Project (FY74) emphasized the non-formal
sector. Its aim was to train rural youth and upgrade the country's voca-
tional training capacity. The rural youth training component is now being
evaluated to determine whether a follow-up project would be justified.
A Second Education Project (scheduled for FY83) would consist of training
for primary, secondary, and technical school teachers, and production of
didactic materials.



-7-
24.       In FY80, IDA granted a Credit to the Banque Beninoise pour le
Developpement (BBD), the national development bank providing medium and
long-term loans to both the public and private sectors. The project is aimed
at providing BBD with resources needed to finance small- and medium-scale
enterprises up to 1982, and strengthening BBD-s management and capacity to
promote small- and medium-size investments.
25.       The remainder of the planned program until 1985 is devoted to
continuing work in sectors with existing IDA involvement, such as highways,
education, and possibly small-scale industry; also, Bank Group support would
be initiated in the urban sector and in oil exploration through a water
supply/sanitation engineering and technical assistance project scheduled for
Board consideration later in FY81, and a petroleum exploration engineering
project planned for FY82.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
25.       Transport is particularly important in Benin as it serves both
domestic needs and the transit needs of neighboring countries, Niger and
Nigeria. Benin's transport system consists of about 7,300 km of roads, 579 km
of railways, one deep-water port with about 1.4 million tons annual handling
capacity, and one international airport at Cotonou. The backbone of the
system is the "Benin Route" which extends the length of the country from the
Port of Cotonou to landlocked Niger. It comprises the Cotonou-Parakou railway
(440 km) and the Parakou-Malanville road (320 km).  The Benin Route carries
most of Niger's exports and imports, generating about 10 percent of Benin's
foreign exchange earnings. Transit traffic to Nigeria has been increasing
rapidly since 1975, reaching 700,000 tons in 1979, but this traffic is now
falling off as expected, with improvements in Nigerian port operations.
26.       Road transport is the predominant mode, carrying about 70 percent
of domestic freight and 90 percent of domestic passenger traffic. About 900
km (or 12 percent) of the road network is paved, and 2,700 km (about one-
third) is all weather-gravel. The remainder of the network (3,700 km)
consists of partly improved earth roads and tracks. The 1980 vehicle fleet
estimate (based on registration data to 1978 and a growth rate of 4.5
percent p.a.) is 15,000 vehicles, of which 50 percent are passenger cars and
the remainder are small and heavy trucks (30 and 20 percent respectively).
27.       The railway is operated by the Organisation Commune Benin-Niger
(OCBN) for the Governments of Niger and Benin, and forms a key segment of
the Benin Route. In addition to the main trunk line from Cotonou to Parakou,
the railway operates two coastal lines: Cotonou-Segboroue (eastern line,
107 km) and Cotonou-Pobe (western line, 34 km).  The railway carries about
80 million ton-km per year, and is the country's second largest employer
after the Government. Restrictions on the use by trucks of road/rail
bridges over the Zou and Oueme Rivers which were the only crossing points on
the north-south axis, have in the past, contributed to protecting the
railway from road competition. However, a road bridge over the Zou River



- 8 -
was opened in 1980. Also, feasibility studies are underway for paving the
only remaining unimproved section (Dassa-Parakou) on the road paralleling
the railway, and for extension of the railway to Niamey in Niger, with
financing respectively from the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED) and
the Fonds d-Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) of France (para. 31). The Government
also intends to extend the eastern railway line to a clinker plant under
construction at Onigbolo, under a joint venture with Nigeria.
28.       The port of Cotonou, built in 1965, has four general cargo berths, a
jetty for bulk cargo, a transit area, and a fishing quay. The port handled
1.4 million tons in 1979, of which half went to Nigeria via the coastal road,
and about 25 percent to Niger via the Benin Route. Expansion involving the
construction of two berths and storage facilities is underway with financing
from IDA and seven other co-financiers.
29.          The country-s only international airport at Cotonou, handles some
4,000 flights annually. In 1978, these carried about 39,000 passengers and
3,900 tons of freight. There are also five small airfields, but domestic air
transport is not significant. Benin is a shareholder in Air Afrique, and runs
the domestic carrier Air Benin.
Transport Policy and Sector Management
30.       Responsibility for transport policy is shared between three
Ministries--Transport, Public Works, and Planning--but there is only ad hoc
cooperation between them. The Ministry of Transport is responsible for
collection and analysis of transport statistics, review of tariffs, and
preparation of investment proposals. The Ministry of Planning has identified
lists of improvements and study needs, but no "plan" as such has been prepared,
as the priority needs are expected to absorb most of the available financing.
The Government's main objectives in the transport sector are: upgrading of low
standard roads following priorities set by traffic growth and developments in
agriculture; improving road maintenance capacity; and increasing the compara-
tive advantage of the Benin Route vis-a-vis other competing north-south routes
by completing the paved road to parallel the railway, and also extending the
railway to Niamey in Niger.
31.       Several actions are already underway to make the Benin Route more
competitive. The port is being expanded, and should then have sufficient
capacity to meet foreseeable needs. FED is helping finance paving of
the Bohicon-Dassa Zoume road section paralleling the railway, and has
already financed a feasibility study for paving the remaining gravel section,
from Dassa Zoume to Parakou (210 km). Detailed engineering for this section
will be completed later in 1981, and construction will probably take place
over 1982-84. This will certainly cause a diversion of some Niger traffic
from rail to road. On the railway side, FAC financed a feasibility study on
extending the line to Niamey; the study concluded that such an extension
would cost about US$750 million and would yield a return of about 13 percent.
However, support for the project has not been encouraging: the consultants-
report is thought to be overly optimistic and there are many risks involved,



for instance the instability of the uranium market, and traffic diversion to
the road. To ensure the continued use of an improved "Benin Route," the
Governments of Benin and Niger have signed an agreement by which 90 percent
of Niger's import-export traffic will travel via that route. The Government
also intends to improve access to landlocked Upper Volta, for which it has
recently cofinanced the international bridge at Porga, and has commissioned
a study to determine which of two alignments south of Djougou (via Parakou
or via Savalou) should be adopted and improved.
32.       Efforts are also underway to improve about 1500 km of feeder roads
through assistance from IDA (approved earlier in FY81 under the Second Feeder
Roads Project), FED, and the UN Capital Development Fund; some 470 km of main
roads are being improved under the Third Highway Project. FED is prepared
to finance some gravel road rehabilitation, and the proposed project would
further assist in institution-building and road upgrading and maintenance.
The Road Transport Industry
33.       There is no restriction on setting up trucking companies, and the
road transport industry consists of a number of semi-public and private
enterprises. The most organized is Trans-Benin (a company owned jointly by
Benin and Niger) which complements the OCBN (Organisation Commune Benin-Niger)
for international freight. Six transport companies, one in each province
under the Regional Centers for Rural Economic Development (CARDER), operate to
satisfy social needs rather than to make profits. These companies, however,
do manage to break even. Private truckers, mostly small operators with four
vehicles or less, provide local, interstate, and national transport; in
addition, some public enterprises have their own fleets. While the Ministry
of Transport establishes tariffs for the private transport services, these
tariffs are not enforced; truckers therefore charge what the market will bear,
and cross-subsidize customers in a competitive environment.
Road Administration
34.       The Ministry of Public Works, Construction and Housing (MTPCH),
through its Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRP), is responsible for con-
struction and maintenance of the primary and secondary roads, and some
1,200 km of feeder roads. Responsibility for the rest of the network (mostly
unclassified roads) nominally lies with the Ministry of Interior and local
authorities, but will be gradually taken over by DRP. The Directorate
operates through four district offices which in turn have four or five
subdivisions. The national materials laboratory (CNERTP) operates as an
autonomous state-owned firm, under the supervision of MTPCH. The laboratory,
which is adequately equipped and staffed, does site surveys and materials
testing for Government and contractors.
35.       DRP has about 1,000 employees.  DRP-s administrative structure, and
the quality of its senior technical management, are satisfactory. DRP-s main
problem is poor administration: cumbersome procedures, insufficient staff, and
high turnover considerably delay works and result in unnecessarily high costs.
To overcome this deficiency, an Administrative Division is being set up to
improve and accelerate DRP's processing of contracts, purchases, payments,



- 10 -
analytical accounting, and other routine matters. So that this division can
become operational quickly, the Ministry is constructing office space with
funds from its own budget, under an extension to a contract for construction
of an administrative building for the Feeder Roads Division, financed under
the First Feeder Road Project (Credit 717-BEN). The Ministry has already
assigned some staff to the division, trained under the First Feeder Road
Project or under the Third Highway Project, and the proposed project would
further assist in establishing the Administrative Division (para. 46). DRP
lacks middle-level managers, administrators, and key higher-level technicians.
Theoretical instruction and practical skill upgrading is required throughout
the organization. Recent IDA projects in the sector have had encouraging
results in staff training. Twelve assistant engineers and two transport
engineers trained locally and abroad under the Third Highway Project have
assumed positions within DRP and the Ministry of Transport, where they are
receiving on-the-job training from the the technical assistance team financed
under the project. This training effort would continue under the proposed
project (para. 51).
36.       The Divisions of Studies and of New Works reviews all engineering
studies, supervise new construction works with the assistance of consultants,
as needed, and occasionally execute minor engineering works and field sur-
veying. Engineering and supervision for major road construction works is done
by consultants, and works are executed mainly by foreign contractors. In
1976, the Government established a National Construction Company (Societe
Nationale de Construction et des Travaux Publics, SONACOTRAP), which in a
joint venture with a foreign firm, is executing resurfacing works under
the Third Highway Project. Other local, private contractors are mainly
engaged in housing and can only do small projects.
37.       Rather than develop private domestic contractors, the Government
intends to increase its own force account capacity for minor road works,
and SONACOTRAP for major ones. With foreign donor assistance, two equip-
ment-intensive brigades are satisfactorily executing a re-gravelling pro-
gram on selected main roads under the Third Highway Project. Each brigade
has an annual output of about 80 km. Five brigades, four of which are labor-
intensive, are building feeder roads with the assistance of IDA, FED and
UNCDF. This effort to strengthen DRP would continue under the proposed
project; the rehabilitation of gravel roads would be carried out by force
account. However, small local firms would build the minor drainage structures
involved in the laterite road rehabilitation program (para. 54).
38.       Maintenance of main roads continues to be hampered by under-trained
staff, shortage of equipment, poor equipment maintenance, and insufficient
local funds. Feeder road maintenance is being reorganized under the DRP since
underfunded local authority efforts have rarely been able to assure all-weather
utilization of feeder roads. The proposed project would provide workshop
services to help strenghthen equipment maintenance throughout DRP (para. 47).
39.       Vehicle regulation and road safety is the responsibility of the
Land Transport Directorate (DTT) of the Ministry of Transport. Increased
awareness of the problem of traffic accidents led to the creation in 1978 of a



- 11 -
National Committee for Road Safety under the DTT. The Committee's program,
though still rudimentary, consists of improving road traffic regulations,
educational campaigns, regular vehicle inspection, and better road signs. The
traffic regulations will be reviewed by a regional committee under the Conseil
de l-Entente 1/ to achieve uniformity among the member countries. Vehicle
inspection is done by each Public Works subdivision, but has limited impact
because of a lack of installations and equipment. Installation of road signs
and line markings are done, if at all, as part of the initial road construc-
tion. The proposed project would aid the Government in improving vehicle
inspection and road signs (para. 48).
40.       Although the official axle-load limit is 13 tons, a regional study
under the Conseil de l'Entente will be launched in 1981 to determine whether
another limit would be more appropriate. Meanwhile, Government policy is to
enforce the present limit in order to prevent road deterioration, especially
on the interstate routes. To this effect, two weighbridges have been in-
stalled, at Parakou and at Malanville, to control traffic to and from Niger.
Two new weighbridges would be provided under the proposed project, and
measures adopted to enforce axle-load limits (para. 49).
Financing of Road Development
41.       Foreign sources (multilateral and bilateral) have contributed about
70 percent of the funds for road construction over the last decade. Road
maintenance funds are mainly local. Periodic and routine maintenance are
financed through the Road Fund set up in 1970. The Fund draws one-third
of its resources from a portion of taxes levied on sales of gasoline and
diesel fuel, and two-thirds from contributions from general revenues. Funding
levels, although much improved, are still not adequate, and not readily
available. The contribution from taxes on fuel has been maintained at 4 CFAF
per litre since 1969, representing 8 percent of the pump price in 1970, but
only 3-4 percent at present fuel prices to consumers 2/. The contribu-
tion from taxes is transferred directly to the Road Fund by the state oil
distributing company, but funds from the general revenues become available
only after long delays, making full use of the budget difficult. To meet
minimum maintenance requirements, the Government has agreed to increase
the total amount of contributions to the Road Fund from CFAF 900 million
(US$4.3 million equivalent) at present, to CFAF 1,300 million (US$6.2 million
equivalent) in FY1982. This amount would be increased each subsequent fiscal
year until completion of the project to take into account cost increases due
1/   The Conseil de l-Entente is a regional organization created by Benin,
Ivory Coast, Niger, Upper Volta and Togo to promote and coordinate
political, social and economic policies.
2/   Present fuel prices to consumers are CFAF 130, 127 and 104 per litre of
super, regular gasoline and diesel fuel respectively including taxes of
between 30 and 20 percent of the pump price. Equivalent import prices
per litre of gasoline and diesel fuel are CFAF 63 and 40 respectively.



- 12 -
to inflation and the scope of required maintenance operations (draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 (b)). The Government would also explore
additional revenue sources for road maintenance, including the possibility of
providing for a small levy for feeder road maintenance in the official pricing
schedules of cash crops. In addition, to give greater autonomy to the Road
Fund and ensure ready availability of resources, the Government would transfer
its annual budgetary allocation to the Road Fund in equal amounts at the
beginning of each quarter and the contribution from taxes levied on the sale
of gasoline and diesel fuel would be increased periodically as needed (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 (c)). Furthermore, as present
maintenance efforts are undermined by the absence of a provision in the
budget for equipment renewal, Government has undertaken to include such a
provision in the Road Fund budget (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.03).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project continues efforts begun under previous opera-
tions to build up the technical and financial capacity to carry out road
improvement and maintenance programs, and to reduce the backlog of periodic
maintenance. The project was prepared by the Directorate of Roads and Bridges
(DRP) of the Ministry of Public Works with the assistance of consultants, and
appraised in July 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington in February
1981; the Beninese delegation was led by the Minister of Public Works, Con-
struction and Housing. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 3212-BEN dated April 9,
1981 is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately. Annex III
contains supplementary project data.
Project Description
43.       The proposed project would help complete road improvement works
begun under the Third Highway Project (Credit 746-BEN), and continue, over a
three-year period, the program of rehabilitation of the country's primary and
secondary road network. It would also provide for further strengthening of
the DRP, the executing agency, through technical assistance, reorganization,
and staff training. Specifically, the project would include:
(a) rehabilitation of about 500 km of gravel roads, and reconstruc-
tion or resealing of sections totalling about 84 km of the Cotonou-
Hilacondji and Come-Lokossa paved roads;
(b) strengthening of DRP through creation of an Administrative
Division, and through technical assistance, staff training, and
provision of office space;
(c) improvement, expansion, and equipping of workshop facilities of DRP;
(d) construction and equipping of two vehicle weighing stations and a
vehicle inspection center, and provision of road safety equipment;
(e) research on road construction materials in southern Benin.



- 13 -
Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads
44.       Past deficiencies in funding and organization have resulted in a
backlog of periodic maintenance of the gravel road network. Two road brigades
established under the Third Highway Project have satisfactorily rehabilitated
some 270 km of gravel roads; however, only a small amount of new equipment was
provided, on the assumption that the existing equipment fleet was sufficient.
This proved not to be so, and equipment had to be diverted from routine
maintenance to complete the brigades. The proposed project would provide for
fuel, labor, materials and equipment for the rehabilitation of some further
500 km of gravel roads, of which 370 km have been selected for improvement
during the first two years of project implementation. The remaining 130 km to
be rehabilitated during the third year of the improvement program would be
selected during the second year of the project; the selected road sections
would be acceptable to the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.06).
Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
45.       Resurfacing of about 195 km of paved roads provided for under the
Third Highway Project was hampered by a combination of factors: administra-
tive delays within DRP, bad weather, and an increase in the costs, especially
of bitumen. Furthermore, sections of roads originally scheduled only for
resealing have since broken up, and will now require more intensive and costly
work in base reconstruction. Because these works are located on the country-s
important east-west coastal road Cotonou-Lome and Come-Lokossa, the proposed
project would provide funds for their completion (about US$5.8 million).
The proposed project would also provide for a small program of research by
the national materials testing laboratory on alternative road construction
materials. The coastal plain of Benin is poor in road construction materials,
and known sources are almost exhausted. If a successful program could be
developed, haulage costs of construction materials would be significantly
reduced.
Administrative Division
46.       Despite efforts under previous projects, institutional weaknesses
in DRP seriously hamper its effectiveness. An administrative division is
being established within DRP to handle procurement and supplies, administra-
tion of contracts, cost accounting, finance and personnel matters. To ensure
that the Division is functioning at the start of project implementation,
Government has provided interim financing for construction of new office
space, and this is recommended for reimbursement under the proposed Credit
(para. 57). The proposed project would also provide for six man-months of
services by administration specialists to help establish accounting, audit-
ing, budgeting, and stock-keeping systems.
Workshops
47.       DRP's efficiency has also been hampered by a virtual lack of work-
shop services outside its main Equipment Maintenance Division (STI) workshop
in Cotonou. Under the project, branches of STI would be established in



- 14 -
regional centers at Parakou and at Natitingou. The two new workshops would
be provided with fixed equipment, machine tools, hand tools, and vehicles.
A store and an office would be included at each new location. Certain spe-
cialized tools would also be provided for the main workshop in Cotonou.
Vehicle Inspection Center
48.       In support of the newly-formed National Road Safety Committee, the
project would provide for establishment of a vehicle testing center, road
signs, and a line-marking machine, and for three man-months of services of an
expert to help organize the administration of vehicle inspection, and to
advise on setting up a national road safety campaign. Before construction of
the center, the Government would prepare a plan for its operation, as well as
rules and regulations establishing vehicle inspection standards and modes for
implementing them which are satisfactory to the Association. Government would
also undertake to ensure application of these regulations and to provide the
funds required for efficient operation of the center (draft Development Credit
Agreement Section 3.08). The resulting higher standard of vehicle inspection
is expected to reduce traffic accidents caused by mechanical defects.
Axle-load control
49.       In support of the regional axle-load control program advocated by
the Conseil de lEntente (para. 40), the proposed project would also provide
for construction of two new weighbridges, one near the Nigerian border at
Seme, and the other at Godomey at the southern end of the north-south road.
Prior to the procurement of these two new weighbridges, the Government has
agreed to repair the two existing weighbridges at Parakou and Malanville and
ensure that they are operating pursuant to regulations satisfactory to the
Association. The Government has also agreed to enforce prescribed axle-load
limits (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.09 and 4.04).
Technical Assistance
50.       The technical assistance team--two highway engineers and a mechanic--
assisting DRP with implementation of the Third Highway Project has performed
satisfactorily, and the same firm would continue to provide assistance under
the proposed project. Overall, the project would provide for a total of 143
man-months of technical assistance for project implementation, procurement,
training, contract supervision, setting up DRP-s Administrative Division, and
establishing the road safety and axle-load control programs. The Government
would assign qualified Beninese personnel to work in close cooperation with
the consultants (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02).
Training
51.       DRP's field, workshop and office staff require both on-the-job and
theoretical training. A detailed training program for about 200 students
is being prepared by DRP and consultants under the Third HIighway Project
covering about 16 months of course time. The proposed Fourth project would
provide for 32 man-months of services by specialist instructors to set up and



- 15 -
run a training program for mechanics and electricians, and to oversee the
start-up of the new workshops. Training for field staff in civil engineer-
ing subjects would be given by DRP engineers who would receive small honor-
aria for their efforts, and by members of the technical assistance team. A
small training center would be established within the Equipment Maintenance
Division at Cotonou. To alleviate the administrative problems that have
hindered similar programs in the past, personnel would receive, during their
training period, a small daily allowance in addition to their normal salary,
to cover out-of-pocket expenses (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.10(a)). DRP intends that the training center should remain a permanent
operation, whose expansion would depend on progress during the project period.
Details of the training program have been discussed and agreed with the
Government (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07). Training for
senior technicians is given at the Regional Road Maintenance Training Center
(CERFER) in Lome, Togo, which is funded by the member states of the Conseil de
1VEntente. Benin is presently negotiating an increase in its student quota.
If the increase is granted, the project would provide scholarships for DRP
employees to attend the CERFER training program.
Project Costs and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project, net of taxes and including contin-
gencies, is estimated at US$20.3 million, with foreign exchange costs of
US$14.3 million (about 71 percent). Average man-month cost of consulting
services, including salaries and overhead, is estimated at US$10,100. Reim-
bursable expenses payable to consultants are estimated at US$3,500 per field
man-month including housing, domestic and overseas travel, and communica-
tions. Fellowships to CERFER are estimated at US$5000 a year, including
travel, if required. Physical contingencies have been applied at a rate of
10 percent. On items purchased for the project there is little difference
between domestic inflation rates and rates in principal supplier countries;
price contingencies have therefore been calculated on the basis of the
following combined rates: 1981, 9 percent; 1982, 8.5 percent; 1983, 7.5
percent; 1984, 7.5 percent; 1985, 7.5 percent. Total contingencies are US$3.5
million or 17 percent of total cost, of which price contingencies represent
$1.9 million or 9.4 percent of total cost.
53.       The project is being jointly financed by the Association, the
OPEC Fund for International Development and the Government. The OPEC Fund is
making a loan to the Borrower of US$6 million (about 30 percent of total
costs) exclusively for the foreign exchange costs of equipment purchases and
bitumen roadworks. Loan conditions are expected to be similar to those of the
Association. The IDA allocation of US$11.3 million equivalent will finance
about 58 percent of foreign costs, about 50 percent of local costs, or about
55 percent of total costs. The Government will contribute $3.0 million
equivalent or 15 percent of total project costs. The execution of the OPEC
Loan Agreement and the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of this loan are specified as additional conditions of effectiveness
of the IDA Credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).



- 16 -
Project Execution
54.       Responsibility for project implementation will rest with DRP and DTT
for the road safety and axle-load control programs, with the support of the
technical assistance team. Rehabilitation of gravel roads would be carried
out by DRP by force account. The Chief Road Maintenance Engineer would be the
local counterpart of the expatriate mission team leader. Minor works on
drainage structures would be carried out by small contractors, who would be
supplied by the Ministry of Public Works (MTPCH) with materials purchased
through limited international tendering; small contractors would be selected
on the basis of invited bids from artisans known to the local MTPCH subdivi-
sion office, which would supervise the works. For larger works (such as
bridges) bids would be invited from qualified domestic firms; contracts would
be awarded under local competitive procedures which are acceptable, and would
be administered and supervised by MTPCH, with consultant assistance. Improve-
ments to buildings would be done by force account or by domestic contractors
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 3, paras C and E).
55.       Rehabilitation work on paved roads would be carried out by a consor-
tium of a foreign and national firm SONACOTRAP through an extension of their
existing contract under the Third Highway Project. This would avoid delays,
inconvenience, and the likely additional cost involved in hiring another
contractor to carry out these works. Retroactive financing is recommended to
cover expenditures to a maximum of US$1.5 million for work carried out prior
to signature of the proposed Credit (para. 57). The paved roads expert from
the technical assistance team will be responsible to the DRP's engineer in
charge of New Works for the supervision of this contract.
Procurement and Disbursement
56.       Road-building equipment and vehicles, workshop tools and equipment,
and weighbridges (US$5.6 million) would be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Bid analysis
would be based on price, availability of after-sale services, and where
justified, standardization of equipment. Government bid analysis procedures
are satisfactory. Spare parts (US$0.6 million) would mostly be procured,
either under a clause in the original equipment supply contract, or by sepa-
rate local contracts; however, urgently required spares up to a total value of
US$180,000 may be purchased in small quantities from suppliers stocks in
hand. Laboratory equipment, furniture and office supplies would be obtained
through international or local shopping. Building materials for force account
building rehabilitation and pipe culvert manufacture would be procured through
limited international tendering. Fuel and other petroleum products (US$1
million) would be supplied by negotiated purchases with the state oil company
SONACOP which has recently adopted a uniform, nationwide price structure, and
whose distribution capability is satisfactory. Technical assistance (US$2.2
million) would be engaged in agreement with, and under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02)



- 17 -
57.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:
-    100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of local expen-
ditures on fuel, materials, spare parts, technical assistance and
CERFER scholarships;
-    87 percent of expenditures on rehabilitation of paved roads by
contract made prior to June 30, 1981, and 32 percent thereafter;
-    75 percent of expenditures on building construction and rehabi-
litation, drainage works by contract, and materials research;
and
-    40 percent of expenditures on tools, equipment, vehicles, teaching
materials, and weighbridges.
It is recommended that disbursements include retroactive financing of
up to US$1.5 million for work on rehabilitation of paved roads which is
already well underway (para. 55), and an additional US$130,000 for construc-
tion of office space for DRP-s Administrative Division (para. 46). (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4). Since the proceeds of
the OPEC Loan cannot be used for retroactive financing, IDA would reimburse
87 percent of these payments up to June 30, 1981 the expected date of sig-
nature of the OPEC Loan, and 32 percent thereafter. This percentage will be
adjusted if signature is delayed so that the total amount of OPEC contribution
to the paved works will be US$3 million (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 5).
58.       Requests for disbursements from the IDA Credit would be fully
documented, except for force account items which would be against certifi-
cates of expenditures; detailed documentation would be retained by DRP and
made available for inspection by IDA supervision missions. Analytical
accounting would be established and coordinated with the system to be insti-
tuted under the recently approved Second Feeder Roads Project. Auditors
acceptable to IDA would carry out regular annual audits of all project
accounts, including reports on operation of the revolving fund (US$400,000
equivalent) to prefinance project activities. Operation of the revolving
fund, to be managed by the Caisse Autonome dAAmortissement of the Ministry
of Finance, follows a practice which is working satisfactorily under the
ongoing Third Highway Project. Establishment of the revolving fund by
opening of a special account would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 2.02, 4.01 and 6.01 (b)).
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       A major project benefit would be its institution-building impact
in strengthening DRP's capacity to plan and carry out its functions;
no attempt has been made to quantify this benefit, but the proposed institu-
tional improvements are essential to make DRP's operations more efficient
and cost-effective. Also important but not readily quantifiable benefits,
would arise from the implementation of components for axle-load control and
improved road safety.



- 18 -
60.       The most tangible project element, however, would be the re-
habilitation program to be carried out on 84 km of paved main roads, and
500 km of gravel roads; of the latter, about 150 km are in the south, serving
the more densely populated areas of the country and carrying relatively high
traffic. About 400,000 inhabitants in the direct influence areas of the
roads (where annual per capita rural income averages less than $100 equiva-
lent) would benefit from improved service. Vehicle operating costs would be
significantly reduced--in some cases by one-half--and benefits are expected
to be passed on to users. Benefits would generally take the form of sizable
fare reductions resulting in increased transport demand, and eventually
increased crop marketing in response to activities under ongoing and planned
agricultural development projects.
61.       On the basis of expected project costs (including technical
assistance costs considered as directly attributable to the program), and
using vehicle operating cost savings as the only quantified direct benefit,
the economic return on the rehabilitation program is estimated at 24 percent
for paved roads and 34 percent for gravel roads; the overall economic return
on the project is estimated at 30 percent.
62.       There should be few risks associated with the paved road rehabili-
tation, as the contractor is already on site and costs are known. Risks
would also be minimal for the gravel road program; the productivity rate
assumed is the same as achieved under the Third Highway Project, whose rate
of execution was affected by shortages of adequate equipment and slow adminis-
trative procedures. Under the proposed Fourth Project, which provides for
training of personnel, new equipment, and improved administration of DRP, it
is expected that effectiveness and productivity of the rehabilitation works
should improve significantly.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Benin and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be the fulfill-
ment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the OPEC Fund Loan (para.
53), and opening of the Special Account to pre-finance project expenditures
(para. 58).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
April 27, 1981



- 20 -                                       Annex 1
poSp  I
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIHATE) 
TOTAL            112.6
AGRICULTURAL      33.0                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOHE              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   90.0        120.0     250.0                 260.0                    868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       39.0        42.0       56.0                 80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
OPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        2. 1        2.6        3.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  9.5         12.6       14.0                  17.3                     28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         6.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2160
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        19.0        23.0       29.0                 27.4                     61. 7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      62.0        77.0       97.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.2        44.9       46.0                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                          53.2        52.6      51.3                  52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.5        2.7                  2.8                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.2         2.6        2.8                  2. 7                     2. 7
URBAN                               6.0         5.5        4. 2                 6. 8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.0        49.0       49.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        22.0       19.0                 19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         3.3        3.3                  3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PUANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           95.0       101.0       92.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                    93.0        96. 0      98.0                 90. 2                    92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           51.0        53.0       51.0                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        14.0        15.0       13.0                 18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0        32.0       27.0                 27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         42.0       46.0                 45.3                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           206.0          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..       20.0                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                ..          ..       42.0                 58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       16.0                  16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        14.0        ..                  28.9
URBAN                                ..        83.0         ..                 67.0
RURAL                                ..         1.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          47000.0     28920.0   26908.0               30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2910.0    3007.0                5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             748.0       847.0      736.0               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                ..          ..      209.0
RURAL                                ..          ..    3876.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        30.2       17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..
UREAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCM
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..



- 21 -                                               Annex 1
Page 2
BENIN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BENIN                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST REC ENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAPARA  AFPICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEIT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 26.0         40.0      58.0                  57.7                      61.7
MALE                  38.0        56.0       80.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEMALE                15.0        25.0       37.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          5.0      11.0                   10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2.0          8.0      16.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0        6.0                   7. 1                    14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  13.0           4. 1       2. 1                  6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0         44.0      48.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          23.0         26.0      31.0                   25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         8.0           ..        ..                   25.5
CONSUMIPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1. 0         4.0       5.4                   3.6                      38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.0         32.0      48.0                  31.5                      83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0. 1                   1. 8
NEW SPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TrHOUSAND POPULATION                  2.0          1.0       0.3                    4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 2          0. 4        ..                   ..                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1048.9       1285.7    1530.2
FUMALE (PERCENT)                   45. 1        44.9      44.9                  33.5                      38. 1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              54.0         49.7      47.0                  80. 7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.9         11.8      46.0                   8. 1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.2         49.0       46.4                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 57.1         54.9       51.0                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               45.5         43. 3     42.1                  29.5                      29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         1.0        1.1                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.4/c
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7l/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 5j.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.8/c
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      84.0                  86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                 107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      82.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      55.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Population.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22 -                                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINITIONS CF SOCIAL ID[DICATIRS
Dotes:  Although the  at. ate denv  fro. ore  genra]ip  udgd  he motetotano    o   eiable,' It 0001.0   alo b  noted that they way no  ha inter-
ntioalycmarbebeas  o   b  dan, ofatndrtddtitoe adcoeps used ny dt .Iffrntcutre   in clleting  the data.  Th. dansre  none-..
theles, useCl no dscrhb  orderec tftabtolud. iodi-ee treodt, and  bhr--erie  cetin-jor doffee-oe  bI_es  coo _r
There eroc  groo..  .te (1  Iecmoo        r  group rf the nobjeot  -ontY and (2) ecoooy   -ron  -ill'osoe  high-eorg  t-co.e oba- the cootrly group
ococtuaaftfloitien .  dotereeen  tnyf th             th.veaesae  oNitnoatgtd  rtbc fic. Neans for  Each                      indcao  cod a.. rbsro  oolyohemst
least half of lha  -ncorte  10 0          hrop .a data for tbt  iodi_soor.  iioo  the covrag  ofcntie                        ...o.the  odIOator   deed:foo the. eca'lability of
date cod astt  nfom   catonse  bs eo Jnae   ttcaalogaes    of doelodlotrtoaobe     hes   veee too'Dusflo oonaeg  he talus
logy aRid ltbhuaad                                                                          I..E., Fouctitor ce  l'hyai-our p- Prloo      ..o . bytutrt praotcitfg pny-
Docl   Tta   -f-ac  acee c        E0lso  isd aodeteon aoaaduetc.soca_  quadofiod  "r- a. eicaf school at unn-erity le_e.
Agnuorl-Itmaeo  sguuIue Ioe I            mdtayrrirorpraNn-yPrdain  e   Ouen  Persoon                                   pltiodirided hy number of ptaneioiog
too crps, pse   ee.     ao..o  knhn  udos  rt l.'ie  eie  1911 dte,                       moe d feaLe grad_et   uet   rcie    osa   n   airo    oas
-ul-od by same          oorior  -ehod Os World tak  tlas  (1971-19 has is); 1960,           _vtai   opbi   o   ene    errladsediedbmoe   n   e
191), aod  lOlOdena.                                                 foa~~~~hbilitetioncrors.Nopitos  r  ssrahbitahsettt  peemagemey stffe
imiTY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA   A - ...nua  co-uptodo  uf .c..a enegy lo-al                    byrat.lee  doephysite.i R-        aieant    rodagpiopll   ntd
..d hydl.-, -1-  ..d                    are  re nt" Onided.   ua  hompitela, bh-eer  totde hes,t  aosdiosi
codliode,peroeu,  mora  gt odhoro-  nclaran  goteralslc-          cenee  otPerasocolY ataffed by a phyatta   (onhr   sdy             a      isetenet,
druloy   okuorm ofcaeqidetprcpt;Dt.11.sd11ore,mtnfe, etc.)  hibh offer to-patet  cesPedn sdero
date.                                                                C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j~inted rang  of meical fantlittes.  her etasiettoaPl psps_ arham heart-'
PIPTILATIDON AND VITAL STATISTICi                                                             Iopbae  oa   r  ua   op.iaa  And md.iosi mod hatrntp oet ees,    .  r1
Total Pplain,id-Yeer Imillins) - As of July 1; 196d, 1910. aod 1978                        hdiaosorIteia   e   o.ptal. nadmbet of ademla  no o.tydahre
Urba  Paruleoilon    ..ocn otf Acted  - Rterm   of urban tor toteD  yrpulatton;h.  -b,      bd.
differem.  de6fioltinom  of orb I. m..es may affect ompaoabiltry of data              HVSN
amngooetie;1961, i9dI, erd 1919 dan.t.eesOo.fAoeod  proapthueod  -ttl   rs.admrl
Prltto! rf cin                                                                           A househol'Jd'!consists of agnp fn An,diotul who ahaee lioig q-erntel
pop.ulatn iZt yer o10  - Cuoe_  popuIlaino Pto)ectinneer  based no190                     ed obho  aomas.              ore   rlde   a   rmyntb   nlddi
toted PnruI.ia - by age amd  .. and  .be.. mortality aod fetility  rta.                the  ioteol  fo  motttia  nurpomea.y fb.i-.d    i
Projeotilorpra ea  n   oroatdhoy rate  -nPrise of three lee1-             mm          Anrteounher. of1 cerm.o. der1_, non-tns ,I      rs,adroi-Aeaea
log life Iopcnnct    a  birth door.a. log oAth coun.try'sye  c P.    pine  .t.em       her eperons  p.o.rnt..   all urbon. tndI rurl, nouid -1nnent-ona
letl.  ndfeoleliC   epe-snY etebiliodog  tn 11.5 peata.  The pars-              dneigsrepcoey                  sltg r. dmmpemtosacasad
feh, yacodn   no Io.e level enhatfml   inigpromne                           Accesseto Electodit, Inecoent of dee11ins..        toa.uba,ad  ea 
loch  n     t is the  es IgneId one of thessdJ-ccbinoosn   on-n onnima   oltg   ibeetiiyt  lining quarters as
end farciliny trends for prajection purpnmce.                        of onced, unhat, end tural doellings respectively. --l
Statoney troutaidcInsetstlonary. P.popultio  there  _a no gtonth cmo
onla  natn.This1 it achtiee  oaly atter fertAinty rates decline tO                    Ad)umed Enrollmen  Reties
of eoeorp danc  itself mo-tly. ICs  ntia_tarTouains    esetlmo   falaana  h  primary leomi a  psroeoOsgIs o                                                      cepctne
eImtefd ton abs baais of the Peojeoned oharietatins ot-_   the  outte                     pr,..1  imaysool -g-ppIt Ie; narmlly.  tectode    ohldmt        ae  hi
inthe yerlDD  ad the rate of decline of fretir   eate  o  e lceyer  but idIcated too difteraun  lengths ot primay sduessiae; tee
Der pteneo   rorulaion Os oeachad - The Year ehenstn tr  population                strem    uils ar  be-Iothoeth   fucesholsm
st..ice ha h..a.      hd                                                                    caavmha -tyten,. male and femad  - Computed aabets;seodr
Per en. ko. -Mitd-y-s  Ppa1ation per square kilo..etr 1101 he.ttarse If                     pro-ides  -eea.1nctoe,o  tech r natit  itasontt... foe yankb
Per en. h. eatialtuos1 lend - Conp.ted as bheo  for agrico1tur..  dee                       umus...iy of 12 no 17 year  o  eI a  crepoedee.. ...se   are. geasrely
ano laded.
Popolanion see Storucesr  fp-r..eot  - Childreo  (0-14 yeere.)  onrkig-age  (15-            Tonetnleelen  ermno    eneao       oaimlietaim
6A years)1, sod retired (h6  yearsmod oe)e  p--ooeges of mid-yea  popu-                     deody or em departments of smondr    Prm               hitipentiniapm.
7ain   OD    010   e   09dta                                                         0-ece rarto - oriry and .....edery - Totsl stodens enrolld to
FPotlattom Growth Sate fosroenti - tonal -Annual groeth rates of tota  end-                   primar  ond meredecy'leveda dirided by cumbes of -eaherm  in the
y.s. poraistos for 1951-60. 1960-70, and 01 785-.g.                                         oooecdi,,g levels.
Peraltinodroet tat  Drereon)-tnbse - factulgowhrae  of orbee pOPO-                  Adul't diteac  ears drre        i-tntsotemue    blabi  to readndlmatte)
dations for 1950-6C, 1960-70, and 197D-7g.                                                  asprerg   o   oa   dloppleo   agd1.                      ersaa   or
Crude Sirth Rtat lpec ebo....nd) - A--aI lots bir ths Per nhausod at Anid-rear
1pep1lttot; 1990. 1905, sad 19198 data.                                               CONSUMtPTION
Crdetat    hn  ls  thoa...nd) - dotnol deaths per thoo-ed at aid-yea                      PsesoeeCae rm  thousad rouisino    - .. P Se-e cars comprise mate
popdto;19,11,md11  dt,cr    etn   eeta   ight person; -cludas abolances,. hearses sad
Desereroacin  EteAtcae   unerof daughteratea   will bea   n                      mSmr   eils
her norml r-perdunis period if she:epermcspee    g-potiff  fsr-                         RadiiIOeoetsrs (re  thousan.d pnpulatior) - All types of re..sio-s tar rids,
t_ilitp  retin  osuly ft do-year  --eosge  ending in 19iD, lO7l, sd 1911.                  hr nadoaste no general public Per ihoumod of popalation; sa.niades utli-
Pamiy Pacone   Anopts.Aea  thoed)- A .tuaI nuber of ..c.eptors                        tenedreeier  i             ccries and it years  h..reitrtn   of radio  e
of brhcoto        .eoomuder tuepi-e  of nationa  tamily p,ietin  prora.-                   s  indfet   esfrrcn   er  myntb   oprbeaasms
a_ily 'J.olc  -  sr   reco f married-wme) -. P.ro.nngo of maried                            conre  aoifm I t        o         yeto..    y-b
nsnof child-heacing age. (15-4A  years) eho use birth-control d-tiremt 1.              isca1itamde:       huan   nuamn%   it    eno   febodatt
al Imrddcem  in  aeg  group.                                                         general pu1ic per thoommudppuet;  nludee onlice..ed TV --oet-rs
yh01i ANp OTRI_TITON                                                                           incouttoe    and in years eh.. rssitsnrtin  of TO' see   s  to eftect.
loden of Pn Pmncin  e dpt 199,1%11iOilS   - Ide- nof per c-pitouI                         Omeae   icdta    orthosn  rnusto)-  hw  th laeog  cic
pl.d..t ;~~~~~~~~~~ .d bti.         ~          ~          ~          ineof"dil  gEor .tonoe   esee"   eieda     eidnlp
pedcto   f ali tood ooa'dteM- ednno nIudes amd and fend and                           location denoted plme,rily to rnoedi.ag ...ro  tent   It is co..midere. d
in  nclna.erbns   Coomdities catr primary goods (asg.  baaae                              toh  "daily" if It   P.er   nlsntornmane 
isedof  ugao) ehich are edbead  ..nnaiooctrient  (e.g. cotftee sod                  Cinem An...I Ahtend-oo  Per Carite oa    e- ed on the nanber of
hoe I she .enlded).  Aggregate prodoction oft-b ta      . outry Ac besed Ot             -tickets  oddre   h   er  nldn    dteost   oo-ct
odoirel aoemgs prdorerprice nighne; 1991-As, 1911, sod 1978 data.                  Aud anbola un.it.9  h    .r    .Id.    dl                odi i  
Pe  eita muordo o1f clois  recnto  rniresets  - Cospated floon
enerlgy eq.uireeo  at  netfoo  cpplie.. ...aie, in onontry pee ne pies              LABOR FORCE
pee doy.  Aailahie sPple    piedomestit prodaction, imots Iems                  Total Lahbr F-ece (thoo..ende) -hoeecl             ,cire perco.,....d.   e
oots, and change  im stock.  SNet -oppitem  eclade animltfed, seeds,                 amdfr          n   nclpe   u   nddn   omwn,                 suets, etc
qonlimusd do food po..c.eing, and I.s... to distribnhio.L             qIrs           Def,lonon   itcacrt :       tr_     are nt.coapsobhi; 1960, 1910 sad
teor  tre  _sneted by PAd base.d on physiolognral ...ede tor   _ma  acI-               119 7data.
odIp nod healt  considernl-      toosn,taprnr,bdy  Feens   sh                         P le(ore           - Fmbelao  toe enpercentag  of totl1 tahoe  .tec..
and sen dsoitrnofpouainsdalwnglpect for  Aane5t                                        oicu1tlnue(ere           Leo  fob      C   orIg  forestry, buntig and
house.hold lend;lO-,190an  1977 data,                                                   fishings.    eretg  of ntsd. laborfre I         191, 1975 sad l97t date.
Per osoie corny  f pronei (grams sr dayl- Pe--in ---er  cf Pec- ca- pisLdutolore             blhol fame In                   ...ug   ocetnoio,Imatcor
ne-spply of food per dyay  met supplyaof tood ic defined as ehb.-   Os-               edlehchyesrangtspretge.o  toteD   mboc tore; 1990,
qoiremeete for l   coont....    esta-blished by USDA peo-ide toe minimu                 1970 aed 1919 data.
eddoca..ce of Ad grows of etel1 prontel  par day and 20 grees of aiml and             Psniciostiot, Rae  rerri - totl1, male and feas1  - Particiostion or
pulse proteAn, of  bioh  0 grows should be mml. prti.Them  stn.oton  raetaeonpneds  oeD    al,an .ml   aro forese
er trnochhathiose  of 75 goaeof ltota  pratettsndltlg.oiamanf                                                                                 E:
acid.   prtei.    aa   ccg   o   b  end,  rose  byi PAl inth   hio                      peretae Llolf I~ton    male and female Poplto.f'lsgeepciep
anyid Foo  tuovy; 1991-AD, 19)r aud 191 rldot,                                          lOAD ,FA   th   d 16. i970, and 19171 dana.,T,Iheeer  ILl' a participation  ratm relctn
Prc itortisor ly on  aiml nd  ul6Sooen1eup7                         o  fndf              ge-te_ stonue  OtheyPolahi, and loon  ties tred.  A fee  eoi-
pine  Iton   nui  so     uoIe   n  on  pee day; Od-D  195s' 17   aa                      ..eoo Decndoc   ein  -Rftin  of populaior under 15 and A5 sod oe
Child laaes 1-4c) torhlio hae  ronosa              - On-ul destha par eboead- it            tohO total dahe  force
agcgrup1-  yar, on rhild... in this,B ageg-op; for- mot.d-ocpiogonot-
todec datadentd toon life tables; 196, 1910 aod doll dare                             necoe  DnuInTco-ono
oi.nI.TO                                                          Peroentase ~~~~~~~~~~of Pdo-te Incom  (both to  -sel, sod kicd) -Rheceod hy richet
Lif foeP' eoa W    Wtir (ras- Ane..g  number of yeara of life remitiog                         pretrcetlpOcOpcehD   ecn.opeat1   ecn
so' btrt; loAd 191) sod 19lt fate.
DTath- eMetlihot tan   II-e thouan     An-ul deaths tf me arts under  ore yea           IoFIT TADGET DROUCPS
of age pe  thousan  liehrhEstimated Ahsoln-e Pote.rt d1-m   L_.eI (US) rent r2ite)-abmo and rural -
Acesn %lf    ae Crrmt o   opln  a) - tonal uran so   url- 0                          Absolute po..ooty.incom  icon  it that income  etel heo  ehichl a minima
umeofpeole (tota,I'obm, an  -ural  enth reasons hi   ..morass to este               _otrnitoImolysIdeqote dietPI.  ..u...etie1 nan- food reqoneman  haan
,tinne  puoly  IIocldaeahee-oed mr r  caters or utren    but uotmise                       affnrdshle.
eate suc.h Os tha  roo  p-ote-nd torehols  sprIngs  anI          atsym        la          siaed  Olsor   onIr hces              s  (uts$ ret c..Pits)-aemsdru l-
fonan  r adpost Ibootd unt ma-  than 200 owners froes..,. may ho                   perona  incom   of the coutry.  thbn 1-t1 is derived fom  the rural
cosdrd as heta  othir rcaaoobtleaoes  otht hos.    Ioru-1   Is                         '-,eI tinth adjushee.t foe higsr  ont  o I inngi  -raaes
do nor hac- to spendIadispooorti...te Part of the day in fenohisg the                      nua   Percent of  .poplai-o  urban mod  -o1a) eho are "absolute poor"
diepoo  as. I p-rrenoge  of the te  -epe-nite po eIo.  Ecadie                                                            Ecnm.ic sad Sonail Otan  Dioieiee
Posal mav Onide the -oleo tion and disposal, with no  ithoot traten,_cnon  Analysis and Projeneion  Dtapertmot
nE _uma  e_roen  sn casts-ater byoster-hoeyst-  or-hs use of                                                                           fotohe  1980
pit pricis sod siaila unclnOn



- 23 -
ANNEX T
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                                           Page 4
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN i980                                                                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (CERRENT PRICES. IN )
us$ Million    7X of GDP                                                              1975-80
GNP at Market Prices                            1,145.7            1U3.0                                                               16.2
GDP at Market Prices                            1,112.4            100.0                                                               16.1
Gross Donestic Investment                          271.4            24.4                                                               24.0
Gross Domestic Saving                               50.9             4.6-                                                               _
Current Account Balance                           -124.8           -11.2
Exports (G + BFS)                                  306.1            27.5                                                               16.2
Imports (G + NPS)                                  526.7            47.3                                                               14.8
OUTPUT' LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY. IN 1980                                    Value Added                              Labor Force                   _    Value Added per Worker
Us$Million             7              Thousand                       7.         US
Agriculture                                        430.4               43.1               906                        55.7          475.0                       77.2
Industry, Construction and
Public Works                                   118.6                11.8               52                         3.2        2,280.7                       370.7
Government                                         119.0               11.8                72                         4.4        1,652.8                      268.6
Comserce and Transport                             298.0               29.8               597                        36.7          499.2                       81.1
Other Services                                      34.8                3.5                     _                                   - -
GDP at Factor Cost                        1,000.8               100.0            1,627                       100.0          615.2                      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
____________     Central Government
(CFAF Billion)                  1980                    1975-78
Current Receipts                                       34.5                      14.8                      16.3
Current Expenditures                                   35.3                      15.1                      14.0
Current Surplus                                         0.8                       0.0                       2.3
Capital Expenditures                                   30.2                      13.0                      10.9
External Debt Disbursements (gross)                    21.4                       9.2                       5.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973          1974           1975          1976          1977          1978         1979          1980  1/
(Billion CFAF Outstanding Rod Period)
Money and Quasi Money                              14.79         18.45          31.86         30.63         34.91         39.01         45.67         41.25
Rank Credit to Public Sector                       -1.16         -2.42          -2.95         -2.30         -6.13         -4.92         -7.30        -10.97
Sank Credit to Private Sector                     12.73          16.45          32.60         32.10         37.60         45.10         59.40         73.46
( Percentage or Index Number)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                   ..           17.1           28.2          23.5          23.5          22.8          22.7          17.6
General Price Index (1974 . 100)                   89.6         100.0          114.7         124.1         136.3         145.6         160.4         177.9
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                              1.4          11.6            14.7           8.1           9.8           6.8          10.2          10.9
bank Credit to Public Sector                  -127.5        -108.6          -21.9          -89.0         -66.5          24.6         -48.4          50.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   22.3          29.2            90.2          -1.5          12.1          19.9          31.7          23.6
I/ As of end June 1980
Note:    All conversions to dollars in this table are at the exchange rates noted on the following page.
.. not available.
March 26, 1981



- 24 . -M.
TRADE. PAYMENTS AND CAPUTAL FLOW8
BAiANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                                   MERCHANDISZ EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-197.j  Rj C0RDD)
1976          1977           197(            1979 9n 1980  /                                                                US$ Li_nP    e
(U59 Million)
Exports (G + NPS)                                         133.0          177.6          191.1          254.8          306.2           Cotton                                            7.2          25.9
Imports (G + NFS)                                         276.9          306.5         360.6           448.6          526 7           Cocoa BSuna                                       3,2          11.5
Resource Gap (deficit . -)                               -143.9         -128.9        -169.5           .193.8        -220 5           Palm Products                                      5.0         18.0
All Other Commodities                           _2.i3       __4.6
TOTAL                                      27.7        100.0
Interest Payments (Cot)                                    36.4           37.0           31.8           33.3           38.6
Workers' Remittances                                       15.9           17.0           26,5            23.3          28.6
Other Factor (nat)                                          0.0            0.0            0.0             0.0            0.0
Net Transfers                                              26.3           28.4           22.1            26.2           28.6
BElance on Currant Accounts                               -65.3          -46.3          -88.9         -110.9         -124.8
Direct Foreign Investment                                   6.3            6.7            4.4             7.4            6.4          EXTERNAL DEIT, DECEM3ER 31, 198Q
Not MLT Borrowing                                          31.8           36.2           61.9            71.4           96.7
Capital Grants                                             26.3           28.9           25.2            23.8           37.1                                                            U8S Million
Other Capital (net)                                        -9.6          -14.6            5.3            10.5
G':her Items n.e.i.                                         5.8            9.3           14.1            10.9         -28.0           Public Debt (Disbursed)                             269.1
Cie of Reserves (increase - - )                            -5.4            0.4           21.7            12.8          12.8              Including Guaranteed
Ron-Guaranteed Private Debt
Net Reserves (end year) 1/                                 27.6           25.6            0.9           -27.6            -            Total Outstanding end Disbursed
Petroleum Imports as X of Total Imports                     4.4            3.8            3.5             3.4            3.2
DEBT SE,RVICE RATIO FOR 1980 3/
Public Debt (Disbursed)                               4.0
Including Guaranteed
Non-Gurarnreed Private Debt
IXNCRANGE RATES (C_AF PER Us$)                                                                                                        Total Outstanding and Disbursed
YEAR         Period Average    End of Period
1.973               223               230                                                                                              IBLD/IDA LENDING AS OF FEBRUARY 28. 1981
1.974               241               222
1.975               214               224                                                                                                                                             IBRD    IDA
1976                239               248                                                                                                                                              (Us$ Mil)
'977                246               235
L978                226               209                                                                                             Outstanding and Disbursed                              54.59
1979                212               201                                                                                             Undisbursed                                            11+10o1
1980                210               226                                                                                             Outstanding Including Undisbursed                      68.6o
1981                235                -
1/ Net foreign asseta of Central BSnk
2/ Eatinates
3/  Prelininary estimate of ratio of debt service to exports of goods and NFS
Not available
April 21, 1981



- 25 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1981)
Credit
Number          Year   Borrower   Purpose               Amount 1/  Undisbursed
(US$ million)
Three Credits fully disbursed                           14.80
415-BEN         1973   Benin       Second Highway       20.80 2/        3.30
583-BEN         1975   Benin       Rural Education       4.00           1.77
and Training
716-BEN         1977   Benin       Technical Assis-      1.70           0.36
tance
717-BEN         1977   Benin       Feeder Roads          5.50           0.47
746-BEN         1977   Benin       Third Highway        10.00           2.44
826-BEN         1978   Benin       Cotonou Port         19.30 3/        3.36
997-BEN 4/      1980   Benin       Industrial Develop- 10.00           10.00
ment
TOTAL                                   86.10          21.70
of which has been repaid                 8.40
TOTAL now outstanding                   77.70
TOTAL now held by IDA                   77.70
TOTAL undisbursed                       21.70
Amount     Undisbursed
(SDR million)
1090-BEN 4/    1981   Benin Feeder Roads                 5.5            5.5
1127-BEN 4/    1981   Benin Borgou Province Rural
Development                    15.7           15.7
Total                                   21.2           21.2
of which has been repaid               0.0
Total now outstanding                   21.2
Total now held by IDA                   21.2
Total undisbursed                       21.2
1/   Prior to Exchange Adjustment.
2/   Including a Supplementary Credit of US$9 million.
3/   Including US$8.3 million participation of the Government of Norway (fully
disbursed) and repaid.
4/   Not effective yet.  Credit No. 1090 was signed on January 14, 1981 and
credit No. 1127 on April 9, 1981.



- 26 -                                ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 415: Second Highway Project; US$11.8 million credit
of July 3, 1973; Closing Date: October 31, 1981. Due to inflation and
currency realignments, project cost estimates increased to US$23.3 million or
77 percent above the original cost estimates. The Association provided a
supplementary credit of US$9.0 million on March 10, 1976. Physical execution
of the project has been completed. The closing date was postponed to October
31, 1981 to allow for disbursement of about $600,000 to cover costs of tech-
nical assistance under the Feeder Road Project (Credit 717-BEN).
Credit No. 583: Rural Education and Training Project; US$4.0
million credit of September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981. This
credit provides for (i) construction and supply of training materials for a
Skills Upgrading Center in Cotonou; (ii) construction, equipment and technical
assistance to improve the ongoing rural youth training program; and (iii)
preparation of a second education project. The construction of the National
Support Center (CNAC), and of the Regional Support Centers for the rural
training component of the project and of the Skills Upgrading Center (CPPE)
have been completed. Personnel have been appointed to the CNAC. Equipment
has been selected and issued to the youth clubs. Training for extension staff
and group leaders has begun. Implementation of the rural water supply com-
ponent jointly financed with UNICEF, commenced in July 1980 is expected to
take two years to complete.
Credit No. 716; Technical Assistance Project; US$1.7 million
credit of May 30, 1977; Closing Date: July 31, 1981. This project is
designed to prepare the way for a rural development project. The project
which was to be carried out over a two-year period is nearing completion. It
provided for technical assistance to SONAGRI, the project-executing agency, in
financial management, project preparation and evaluation, procurement of
trucks and staff vehicles, consultant services for the preparation of invest-
ment proposals and for cotton and foodcrops adaptive research. Preparation of
the Zou project is nearing completion. The technical assistance program has
been extended to July 1981.
Credit No. 717: Feeder Roads Project; US$5.5 million credit
of May 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1981. This project consists of
a three-year program for the improvement of about 845 km of feeder roads and
subsequent maintenance of about 1,270 km, the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment and spare parts, and technical assistance to the Ministry of Equip-
ment. This project is about completed. The program of feeder road develop-
ment would be continued under a recently approved Second Feeder Road project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                               ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 746: Third Highway Project US$10 million credit
of November 18, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This project is
designed to facilitate access to the Port of Cotonou by providing for the
rehabilitation of a 107 km section of the country's main north-south highway;
it also aims at expanding the highway maintenance program begun under the two
previous highway projects; including the elimination of some of the backlog of
bituminous and laterite roads resurfacing. Project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily although delays in starting the bitumen roads resealing program
have resulted in further deterioration of about 84 km of roads which now
require full reconstruction. This coupled with an erosion of the dollar of
about 17 percent since appraisal has caused project costs to increase by an
additional $5.8 million. Reconstruction of the bitumen roads is provided for
under the proposed Fourth Highway project.
Credit No. 926: Cotonou Port Project; US$11.0 million credit
of October 6, 1978, Closing Date: March 31, 1982. This project provides
for the extension of the existing general cargo port facilities involving
dredging of a new basin, construction of 610 m berths with transit sheds,
hardstandings, roadway, and railway services; the construction of a new
cut-off breakwater and entrance channel dredging; technical assistance
for all port operations including railway and a study of coastal erosion
problems. Eight co-financiers including IDA had originally agreed to par-
ticipate in the project and to provide about US$44.0 million of external
financing. A US$3.0 million EEC Special Action Credit was approved on
November 9, 1979 to close the financing gap created by the withdrawal of one
of the co-financiers. Civil works are proceeding satisfactorily. Project
costs have increased by about $7.5 million, primarily because of a design
change necessitated by an apparent shortfall in the volumes and sizes of rocks
expected to be obtained from an old breakwater to be demolished for the
construction of a new one. The Government is seeking additional financing
from the cofinanciers.
Credit No. 997-BEN: Industrial Development Project; US$10
million credit of April 16, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985. This project
provides needed term resources to the Banque Beninoise pour le Developpement
(BBD) for financing small- and medium-scale investments in the industrial
sector and technical assistance to help build up BBD's capacity to identify,
promote and assist industrial projects. This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1090-BEN: Second Feeder Roads Project; US$7 million
credit of January 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984. This project
provides for the construction of about 700 km and maintenance of 1,200 km of
feeder roads. This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1127-BEN: Borgou Province Rural Development Project;
US$20 million credit of April 9, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985. This
project provides for expanding agricultural production (foodcrops and cotton)
in the Borgou Province through the strengthening and support of institutions
and of technical infrastructure, integrated with improved extension, coopera-
tives, training and social services. This project is not yet effective.



- 28 -                               ANNEX III
Page 1
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification: the project was identified and prepared
under the Third Highway Project (Credit 746-BEN).
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                July 1980
(c)  Negotiations:                     February 1981
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September 1981
Section II:    Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
Retroactive financing is recommended for up to US$1.5 million
for work on rehabilitation of paved roads and an additional US$130,000 for
construction of office space for DRP's Administrative Division (paras 45
and 55).
Section III:   Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(a) increase in the budgetary allocation to the Road Fund for purposes
of road maintenance to at least CFAF 1,300 million for fiscal year
1982, and further increases in subsequent years as required to
assure effective maintenance operations; transfers from the annual
budgetary allocation to the Road Fund would be made in equal amounts
at the beginning of each quarter (para. 41);
(b) selection of roads for rehabilitation in the third year of the
improvement program would be done during the second year of project
implementation; road sections selected would be acceptable to the
Association (para. 44);
(c) preparation of rules and regulations establishing vehicle inspection
standards, and of a plan of operation for the vehicle inspection
center acceptable to the Association, would be completed before
construction of the center; Govrnment would then follow the plan,
and apply the measures and regulations, and provide necessary funds
to assure efficient operation of the center (para. 48); and
(d) preparation of a plan for efficient operation of weighbridges to
ensure enforcement of vehicle axle-load limits (para. 49).



- 29 -                              ANNEX III
Page 2
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness are that:
(a) the OPEC Loan Agreement has been executed and the conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of, or initial disbursement under
such Agreement have been fulfilled (para. 53); and
(b) the Special Account to be used for pre-financing certain project
expenditures has been opened (para. 58).






--                                                                                                       ;-               /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I BR D - 15423
% A P,,V%d ~ ~ ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       - V4 
N  ~ ~          ~            ~            ~           ~            ~           ~            ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~           ~         ~         ~          t "~~~~~~~~~~~wA   
.6 e~~~~~~~~~~~~ -3      7     k                                                             %~~~~~~~~~~-      t*i ~
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



