OFFICIAL CREDIT NMBER 1420 RW
DOCUJMENTSJ
Development Credit Agreement
(Ruzizi II Regional Hydroelectric Power Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           v       LA     , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1420 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGkEEMENT, dated          1-                , 1984, between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC (hereinafter/called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter   called   the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (hereinafter called the Project) by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the   Republic  of  Burundi  has   also  requested  the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of Burundi
and the Association (the "Burundi Development Credit Agreement"),
the Association has agreed to provide such assistance in a
principal amount equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000);
(C) the Republic of Zaire has also requested the Asso-
ciation to assist in the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of Zaire and
the Association (the "Zaire Development Credit Agreement"), the
Association has agreed to provide such assistance in a principal
amount equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000);
(D) the Project will be carried out by the Societ6 Inter-
nationale d'Electricit6 des Pays des Grands Lacs (hereinafter
called SINELAC) with the assistance of the Borrower, the Republic
of Burundi and the Republic of Zaire and, as part of such assist-
ance, the Borrower will make available to SINELAC the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided and the Republic of Burundi
and the Republic of Zaire will make available to SINELAC the pro-
ceeds of the credits provided for under the Burundi Development
Credit Agreement and the Zaire Development Credit Agreement in
accordance with the terms of said agreements;
(E) the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi, the Republic of
Zaire and the Association intend that for the financing of the
Project, the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed, pari passu, with the proceeds of the
credits provided for in the Burundi Development Credit Agreement
and the Zaire Development Credit Agreement;


﻿-2-
(F) the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi and the Republic
of Zaire intend to obtain additional financing for the Project:
(i) from the European Development Fund (hereinafter called
the EDF) in an amount equivalent to about seven million ten
thousand European Units of Account (ECU 7,010,000) each (herein-
after called the EDF Loans) under separate agreements with the
EDF (hereinafter called the EDF Agreements); and (ii) from the
Government of Italy in an amount equivalent to about two million
eight hundred seventy thousand European Units of Account (ECU
2,870,000) each (hereinafter called the Italian Grants) under
separate agreements with the Government of Italy (hereinafter
called the Italian Agreements); and
(G) SINELAC   intends  to  contract   with  the  Banque  de
Dgveloppement des Etats des Grands Lacs (hereinafter called
BDEGL) for a loan in an amount equivalent to about two million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,300,000)
(hereinafter called the BDEGL Loan) under an agreement between
SINELAC and BDEGL (hereinafter called the BDEGL Loan Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
SINELAC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several teras defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-3-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "SINELAC" means Societe Internationale d'Electricitg
des Pays des Grands Lacs, an international public enterprise
established pursuant to the Convention portant Creation de la
Societ6 Internationale d'Electricitg des Pays des Grands Lacs,
(hereinafter referred to as the Convention) between the Borrower,
the Republic of Burundi and the Republic of Zaire, dated as of
November 1, 1983 as amended as of November 28, 1983 and the
Statuts of SINELAC as amended as of November 26, 1983 (herein-
after referred to as the Statuts) which are annexed to, and form
an integral part of, the aforementioned Convention;
(b) "ELECTROGAZ" means the Etablissement Public de Produc-
tion, de Transport et de Distribution d'Electricitg d'Eau, et de
Gaz, a Rwandese state enterprise, established and operating pur-
suant to Decret-Loi No. 18/76 of the Borrower, as such Decret-Loi
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "REGIDESO" means the R6gie de Distribution d'Eau et
d'Electricit6, a   Burundian   state  enterprise  organized  and
operating pursuant to D6cret No. 1/196 of October 2, 1968, of the
Republic of Burundi, as such Decret may be amended from time to
time;
(d) "SNEL" means the Socigtg Nationale d'Electricit4, a
Zairian state enterprise organized and operating pursuant to
Ordonnance No. 78-196 of May 5, 1978, of the Republic of Zaire,
and Loi No. 78-002 of January 6, 1978, as such Ordonnance or Loi
may be amended from time to time;
(e) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SINELAC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(f) "Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SINELAC pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(g) "foreign   expenditures"  means  expenditures   in  the
currency of the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi or the Republic
of Zaire, for goods or services supplied from the territory of


﻿-4-
any country other than that of the Borrower, the Republic of
Burundi or the Republic of Zaire;
(h) "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower, or in the currency of the Republic of Burundi or
in the currency of the Republic of Zaire, or for goods or 'ser-
vices supplied from the territory of the Borrower, the territory
of the Republic of Burundi or the territory of the Republic of
Zaire;
(i)  "foreign exchange" or "foreign currency" means cur-
rencies other than the currencies of the Borrower, the Republic
of Burundi or the Republic of Zaire;
(j) "local currency" means the currency of the Borrower
(otherwise referred to as the "RwF"), the currency of the Repub-
lic of Burundi (otherwise referred to as the "BuF") or the cur-
rency of the Republic of Zaire (otherwise referred to as the
"Zaire");
(k)  "working capital requirements" means cash requirements
for administrative expenses, salaries, supplies and materials;
(1) "fiscal year" means the period January 1 through
December 31; and
(m)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated September 20, 1982, and
January 28, 1983, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the


﻿-5-
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and ser-ices required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1989
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and SINELAC of
such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of thrae-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.                  e


﻿-6-
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1994, and ending December 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment   thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.10. SINELAC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Provision of Funds
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and
powers as signatory of the Convention and as shareholder of
SINELAC and every other right, power or remedy available to it to
permit or cause SINELAC to perform all its obligations under the
Project Agreement, and it shall not take, nor cause or permit any
agency or entity owned or controlled by the Borrower to take any
action which would prevent or interfere with the performance by
SINELAC of its obligations as set forth in the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause ELECTROGAZ to make
available to the Borrower as and when needed funds sufficient to
cover: (A) at least one third of the estimated Borrower's
contribution towards the civil works included in the Project and
the technical assistance referred to in Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement, (B) financial charges due by the Borrower to
the Association under Sections 2.05 and 2.06 of this Agreement
during execution of the Project, and (C) at least one third of
SINELAC's working capital requirements during the execution of
the Project; and (ii) promptly transfer to SINELAC the funds
referred to in (i) (A) and (C) above.


﻿- 7 -
(c) The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to
ensure that ELECTROGAZ at all times maintains a sound financial
condition and shall permit ELECTROGAZ to adjust its tariffs as
and when required so as to allow ELECTROGAZ to fulfill promptly
the obligation referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of this Section.
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon any other pro-
vision of this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes, whenever there
is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to
SINELAC will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures
required for the carrying out of the Project or inadequate to
permit SINELAC to comply with its obligations under the Project
Agreement, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Association,
promptly to provide SINELAC, or cause SINELAC to be provided
with, such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures or to
comply with such obligations.
(e) In addition to the foregoing, the Borrower shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the prompt and
efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit to SINELAC under a subsidiary loan agreement (the
Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and SINELAC under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association. Such terms and conditions shall
provide, inter alia, for the following:
(i)  the repayment by SINELAC of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to SINELAC over a period of twenty-
five years, ncluding an eight-year grace period,
and payment of interest at 10.97% per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit so relent and not
repaid;
(ii)  the capitalization during the grace period of
interest on the proceeds of the Credit relent to
SINELAC; and
(iii)  the bearing by SINELAC of the risk of fluctuations
in the values of currencies so relent.
(b) The   Borrower  shall  exercise  its  rights under    the
Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall


﻿-8-
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all legislative and
other measures necessary for purposes of SINELAC's acquiring the
land or rights in respect of land referred to in Section 2.09 of
the Project Agreement and shall not take any action or allow any
action to be taken which would prevent or interfere with said
acquisition or subsequent control.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ to assign
to SINELAC, in consultation with SINELAC, REGIDESO and SNEL,
individuals with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association to be counterparts to the experts referred to in
paragraphs 2 through 4 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
each such individual shall be made available on a full-time basis
as soon as the expert to which he is assigned has taken up his
position.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower undertakes:
(a) to take all measures necessary to permit SINELAC to set
its tariffs for the sale of electricity at such a level as will
permit SINELAC to meet its obligations under Section 4.05 of the
Project Agreement; such measures to be taken within 60 days of
any request by SINELAC to the Borrower for an adjustment in
SINELAC's tariffs for the sale of ele-tricity;
(b) to ensure that ELECTROGAZ pays within 60 days of
billing amounts due for electricity supplied by SINELAC;
(c) to provide SINELAC, or cause SINELAC to be provided,
with all such information as SINELAC shall require to establish
adequate projections for electricity demand in the Borrower's
territory; and
(d) (i) to duly perform all its obligations under the Con-
vention, provided that such obligations are not inconsistent with
a provision hereunder, in which case such provision shall govern;
and (ii) to exchange views with the Association on any proposals
to modify the Convention or Statuts.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall permit SINELAC: (i) to
acquire and thereafter to maintain and renew all rights, privi-
leges, franchises, licenses, consents or other rights required
for the operation of SINELAC's facilities; (ii) to operate and
maintain SINELAC's facilities in accordance with appropriate
public utility and industrial practices; and (iii) to retain at
all times the right to freedom of movement for goods, personnel
and services used or to be used for SINELAC's corporate purposes.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ to enter
into, and thereafter, at all times maintain contractual arrange-
ments with SINELAC which shall be satisfactory to the Association
and which shall include provision for ELECTROGAZ to make quar-
terly payments to SINELAC in amounts sufficient to cover at least
one third of SINELAC's estimated cash operating expenditures,
debt service and maintenance for the next calendar quarter.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its Central Bank:
(a) to maintain at all times the free convertibility between
the BuF, the RwF and the Zaire for SINELAC's quarterly bank
account balances; and (b) to provide SINELAC, as and when needed,
with the foreign exchange required for: (i) the maintenance and
renewal of the facilities constructed under the Project; and (ii)
the audits referred to in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed project or proposed investment in the
power sector, other than the Project, which the Borrower, or any
entity owned or controlled by the Borrower, proposes to under-
take.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ to carry
out a study of ELECTROGAZ's tariff structure for the sale of
electricity, and to furnish to the Association, no later than
[December 31, 1983], the results and recommendations of said
study.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ to revalue
its fixed assets in service at the end of each fiscal year in
accordance with a sound and consistently applied method of
valuation satisfactory to the Association, taking into account
both local and international inflation.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ to main-
tain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition, including, without limitation to the fore-
going, separate accounts for its electricity operations.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ: (a) to
have its accounts and financial statements      (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (b) to furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year (i) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested in-
cluding, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
for its electricity operations referred to in Section 4.07 of
this Agreement; (c) to furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
ELECTROGAZ as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall cause ELECTROGAZ: (i)
to carry out engineering studies and prepare financial plans for
the following works: (A) the rehabilitation of the Borrower's
electricity transmission system, and (B) the rehabilitation of
the Ntaruka hydroelectric power plant; and (ii) to furnish to the
Association, no later than June 30, 1984, the results and recom-
mendations of said studies.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
the works referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, as and
when needed, for the purposes of the adequate utilization of the
electric power generated by the facilities included in the
Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SINELAC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary


﻿- 11 -
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
SINELAC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreemen.t.
(c) The Convention or Statuts shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the ability of SINELAC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SINELAC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) Any law or regulation of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way
as to materially and adversely affect SINELAC's operations or
financial condition or its ability to carry out the covenants,
agreements and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 4.03 of this
Agreement and the Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(f) Any provision of the contractual arrangements referred
to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement and Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
terminated, waived or assigned without the prior approval of the
Association and such event shall materially and adversely affect
SINELAC, the Project or the operation of SINELAC's facilities.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower, the Republic of
Burundi, the Republic of Zaire or SINELAC to
withdraw the proceeds of any grant, loan or
credit made available for the financing of
the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled, or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if:


﻿- 12 -
(A) such   suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi, the
Republic of Zaire or SINELAC to perform any
of its obligations under such agreements; and
(B)  adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi,
the Republic of Zaire or SINELAC, as the case
shall require, from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions  of  the   Borrower,  the  Republic   of
Burundi and the Republic of Zaire under the
respective Development Credit Agreements and
of SINELAC under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SINELAC;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) any event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and SINELAC;
(b) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Burundi Development Credit Agreement and the Zaire Development


﻿- 13 -
Credit Agreement, other than fulfillment of the conditions prece-
dent to this Agreement, have been satisfied;
(c) the Association has been notified that all conditions
precedent to the initial disbursement of funds under the Agree-
ments referred to in Recitals (F) and (G) of the Preamble to this
Agreement, except as they refer to the effectiveness of this
Agreement, the Rwanda Development Credit Agreement and the Zaire
Development Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(d) the contractual arrangements referred to in Section
4.03 of this Agreement, as approved by the Association, have been
executed;
(e)  the evidence referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project
Agreement in respect of the land and rights in respect of land
required for carrying out the Project has been furnished to the
Association and an accord de si&ge, as referred to in Article III
of the Convention, which shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, has been executed;
(f) an individual with qualifications and experience satis-
factory to the Association has taken up the position of
Directeur-General of SINELAC; and
(g) the Borrower has paid to SINELAC an amount of not less
than $100,000 equivalent which forms part of the Borrower's
contribution towards SINELAC's working capital requirements as
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (i) (C) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SINELAC, and is legally binding upon SINELAC in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Rwanda Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SINELAC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SINELAC in accordance with its
terms; and
(c)  that the Convention and Statuts of SINELAC have been
duly authorized and ratified by the Borrower and the Convention


﻿- 14 -
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date      /                    , is hereby
specified for the purposes of       ction 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Arti-
cle IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist8re des Finances
Botte Postale 158
Kigali
Republique Rwandaise
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFIN                             CABPUB 04
Kigali
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
,k  1/-6~  e2- 2~l~7
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
CONFIRMED for purposes
of Section 3.01 (b) and
Article IV of this
Agreement
ETABLISSEMENT PUBLIC DE PRODUCTION,
DE TRANSPORT ET DE DISTRIBUTION
D'ELECTRICITE D'EAU ET DE GAZ
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
IHEDMULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               9,170,000          29%
(2) Consultants'                920,000          33-1/3% of
and experts'                                foreign
services                                    expenditures
(3) Audit of SINELAC's           30,000          33-1/3% of
accounts                                    foreign
expenditures
(4) Refunding of                 60,000         Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                                of this Agree-
ment
(5) Unallocated               3,620,000
TOTAL              13,800,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower, on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable


﻿- 17 -
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to     the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit..


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Construction, initial operation and maintenance of the
Ruzizi II hydroelectric generating facilities which
include:
1.   a concrete gravity dam across the Ruzizi River, about 15 km
downstream from the Ruzizi I generating station at the
outlet of Lake Kivu; such dam to be approximately 91 m long
and 11 m high and will include an overflow spillway and two
8 m x 6.5 m sluice gates;
2.   a tunnel about 500 m in length and about 6 m in diameter and
installation of related equipment and a steel penstock about
50 m in length and about 5.1 m in diameter;
3.   a conventional above-ground power house and installation
therein of two 13.3 MW hydroelectric generating units,
driven by turbines designed to operate under an average head
of 30 m, together with all necessary control and protection
equipment; such power house to permit installation of one
additional 13.3 MW hydroelectric generating unit;
4.   a switching station adjacent to      the power station    and
installation of three single-phase transformers to raise the
power produced by the Ruzizi II generating station to 110 kv
for transmission to Rwanda and Zaire; such switching station
to include facilities for the transmission of power to
Burundi;
5.   fish passage facilities;
6.   about 15 km of 110 kv of power line to transmit power from
the Ruzizi II generating station to the Mururu sub-station
adjacent to the Ruzizi I generating station;
7.   local access roads; and
8.   permanent housing for supervisory personnel during Project
construction to be used afterwards for personnel in charge
of operating Project facilities.


﻿- 19 -
Part B:   Training
A study on training needs for the personnel of SINELAC,
REGIDESO, ELECTROGAZ and SNEL's Eastern Region, and
preparation of a training program for said personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1989.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modification of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Agreement, the General Conditions are
modified as follows:
1.   The following paragraph 14 is added at the end of
Section 2.01:
"14. The term Burundi Development Credit Agreement and the
term Zaire Development Credit Agreement mean the
development credit agreements between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association and the Republic of Zaire
and the Association, respectively, for the purpose of
the Project, of even date with the Development Credit
Agreement, as such agreements may be amended from time
to time."
2.   The following parLgraph (m) is added at the end of
Section 10.3:
"(m)  If any arbitration proceeding is instituted
under this Section and if the controversies or claims
to be submitted to arbitration involve a question of
law or fact common to any controversy or claim sub-
mitted to arbitration under the Burundi Development
Credit Agreement, or the Zaire Development Credit
Agreement, such arbitration proceedings shall be con-
solidated into the proceeding upon request by any one
of the parties notified to the other parties, provided
that, if in such other arbitration proceeding a period
shall have been fixed for the presentation of evidence,
such notice shall have been given prior to the expira-
tion of such period. A request for consolidation shall
be promptly notified to the parties to such other arbi-
tration proceeding and, if already appointed, to the
Umpire of the arbitral tribunal constituted for such
other proceeding. The Borrower and the Association
hereby accept any consolidation of arbitration proceed-
ings duly requested pursuant to Section 10.3 (m) of the
General Conditions applicable to the Burundi Develop-
ment Credit Agreement or to the Zaire Development
Credit Agreement. The provisions of paragraphs (a)
through  (1)   of  this  Section  shall  apply  mutatis


﻿- 21 -
mutandis to any consolidated arbitration proceeding,
except that the parties shall be the Association on the
one hand, and the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi and
the Republic of Zaire on the other, and the Arbitral
Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed
as follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the
Association; a second arbitrator shall be appointed by
the Borrower, the Republic of Burundi and the Republic
of Zaire, and the third arbitrator (hereinafter some-
times called the Umpire) shall be appointed by
agreement of the parties or, if they shall not agree,
by the President of the International Court of Justice
or, failing appointment by him, by the Secretary-
General of the United Nations. If the Borrower, the
Republic of Burundi and the Republic of Zaire shall not
agree on the appointment of a common arbitrator, the
Borrower, the Republic of Burundi and the Republic of
Zaire shall each appoint one arbitrator and, in such
event, the Association, on its part, shall appoint
three arbitrators and the six arbitrators so appointed
shall, together with the Umpire appointed as provided
above, constitute the Arbitral Tribunal. If any party
shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator
shall be appointed by the Umpire."


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198F                         S    E
FOR SECRETARY


