OFFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1142 BEN
DOCUMENTSI
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              ,1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1142 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) pursuant to a development credit agreement dated
November 18, 1977, the Association has extended credit (No. 745
BEN) to the Borrower for the purpose of assisting in financing a
prior highway project (hereinafter called the Third Highway
Project);
(C) the Borrower further intends to contract from the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund for Inter-
national Development (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund) a loan
(hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
about six million dollars ($6,000,000) to assist in the financing
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between OPEC and the Borrower; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MTPCH" means the Ministere des Travaux Publics,
de la Construction et de l'Habitat, the Borrower's Ministry of
Public Works, Construction and Housing, or any successor thereto;
(b) "DRP" means the Direction des Routes et Ponts, the
Borrower's Directorate of Roads and Bridges within MTPCH, or any
successor thereto;
(c) "DTT" means the Direction des Transports Terrestres,
the Land Transport Directorate within the Borrower's Ministry of
Transport and Communications, or any successor thereto;
(d) "Road Fund" means the fund established within MTPCH to
finance road maintenance and road related studies;
(e) "CERFER" means the Centre R6gional de Formation
pour L'Entretien Routier, a center within the Conseil d'Entente,
which is a regional organization based in Lome, Togo; said
center is used for the training of road maintenance personnel from
member states of the region;
(f) "CNERTP" means the Centre National d'Essais et de
Recherches des Travaux Publics, the Borrower's national research
center for public works which operates under the supervision of
MTPCH;
(g) "CFA Francs" and the letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la
Communaute Financiere Africaine, the common currency of the
Borrower and the other members of the West African Monetary
Union; and
(h) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies


﻿-3-
equivalent to nine million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open a Special Account in a commercial bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. Parments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable
costs of goods and services required to carry out the Project and
to be financed under this Agreement in respect of Categories (2),
(3), (5), (6) and (7) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 hereto.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section an initial amount in the currency of the Borrower
equivalent to SDR 328,000. Thereafter, at the request of the
Borrower, the Association shall further so withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
equal to payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures
for the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement, but
only to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together
with any amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of SDR 328,000. Except as the Association shall
otherwise determine, each such deposit after the initial deposit
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the same Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts,
as have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a deposit
by the Association into the Special Account, the Borrower shall


﻿-4-
furnish to the Association in respect of each payment made by the
Borrower out of the Special Account such documents and other
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that
the payment was made on account of the reasonable cost of goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(e) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal
from the Credit Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and, unless
otherwise determined by the Association, prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Association, deposit in the
Special Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be made
by the Association when the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals from the Credit Account can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account under paragraph
(a) of this Section, or when the total amount withdrawn from
the Credit Account plus the amount of any qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any special com-
mitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent
of SDR 8,972,000 whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Credit Account of the remaining amount of the Credit for the
Project shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association and shall be made only to the
extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the evidence
submitted in support of the applications for such withdrawal that
all payments by the Borrower out of the Special Account were made
on account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1991, and ending December 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out or cause to
be carried out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project through DRP,
Part E of the Project through DRP with the assistance of CNERTP
and Part F of the Project through DTT in coordination with DRP,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate financial, administrative and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ the following
consultants and specialists whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association: (i) one or two specialists in management and
administration; (ii) three road engineers or road technicians;
(iii) one road safety specialist; (iv) one mechanic; (v) one
mechanic instructor; and (vi) one electrician.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall assign sufficiently qualified
Beninese personnel to work in close cooperation with the consul-
tants and specialists referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
(c) The Borrower shall create a permanent position within
DRP for a mechanic instructor and shall ensure that, until
completion of the Project, the person holding such position shall
have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association;
this position will initially be filled by the person assigned,
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, to work with the
mechanic instructor referred to in paragraph (a) (v) of this
Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,


﻿-7-
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds including, without
limitation to the foregoing, quarterly progress reports on the
execution of each Part of the Project.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, at its request, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be
carried out under Part D (1) of the Project (i) the rehabilita-
tion of the laterite roads specified in the Annex to Schedule 2
to this Agreement during the first two years of Project execution,
and (ii) thereafter, the rehabilitation of additional laterite
roads of an aggregate length of about 130 km which shall be
selected during the second year of the Project execution and which
shall be acceptable to the Association; such rehabilitation shall
be carried out pursuant to a work plan to be agreed annually
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the road rehabilitatioa works under Part D (1) of


﻿- 8 -
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the design
standards specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.07. Until completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall operate the training center to be established under Part C
(1) of the Project in accordance with annual training programs
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, prior to the construc-
tion of the vehicle inspection center provided for under Part F
(1) of the Project, prepare or cause to be prepared with the
assistance of the road safety specialist referred to in Section
3.02 (a) (iii) of this Agreement: (i) rules and regulations
establishing vehicle inspection standards satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) a plan of operation satisfactory to the
Association for said vehicle inspection center.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly take all measures necessary
to ensure the application of the rules and regulations and the
plan of operation referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(c) The Borrower shall make available, promptly as needed,
the funds required for the efficient operation of the vehicle
inspection center referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, prior to the procurement of
the two weighbridges provided for under Part F (2) of the Project
and in order to ensure compliance with the axle load regulations
referred to in Section 4.04 of this Agreement: (i) satisfy the
Association that the two existing weighbridges at Parakou and
Malanville are operating; (ii) select sites acceptable to the
Association for the installation of the weighbridges to be
provided under said Part of the Project; and (iii) operate its
weighbridges pursuant to regulations satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall pay DRP trainees
participating in the training programs provided for under Part C
(1) an allowance of at least CFAF 1,000, in addition to their
normal salary, for each day they attend any such training program.
(b) The Borrower shall award fellowships under Part C (2) of
the Project to DRP personnel with qualifications satisfactory to
the Association for training programs agreed to by the Associa-
tion.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operationw, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, as part of the
records referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate accounts reflecting all expendi-
tures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure; and
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure, and enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (') have the separate accounts and
records referred to in paragralh (b) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, an opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records referred to in said
paragraph as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certified statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures


﻿- 10 -
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the main and
secondary roads rehabilitated under Part D of the Project and the
road equipment provided under the Project to be maintained ade-
quately and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof
to be made promptly all in accordance with appropriate engineering
standards and economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, equipment, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
(b) Without any limitation on the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall ensure that: (i) for its
fiscal year 1982, the total amount of contributions to the Road
Fund from all sources for purposes of road maintenance shall be at
least CFAF 1,300,000; and (ii) for each subsequent fiscal year
until completion of the Project and after an exchange of views
with the Association, such total amount shall be increased
as required to take into account cost increases due to inflation
and the scope of required maintenance operations.
(c) For the contributions to the Road Fund referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section: (i) the contribution from the
Borrower's annual budget shall be transferred to the Road Fund
in equal amounts at the beginning of each quarter; and (ii) the
contribution from taxes levied on the sale of gasoline and
diesel fuel shall be increased periodically as needed for road
maintenance purposes following an exchange of views with the
Association.
Section 4.03. Pursuant to its obligations under Section 4.02
(a) of this Agreement and without any restriction thereto, the
Borrower shall, in its Road Fund budget for each fiscal year,
include an adequate allocation for the amortization of DRP's
maintenance equipment and use the funds so allocated exclusively
for the renewal of such equipment during such year or subsequent
years.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all such measures as
shall be reasonably required to enforce the limits presently
established or to .e established for the axle loads of vehicles
using its main and secondary roads.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the OPEC Fund Loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms providing therefor; or
(B) the OPEC Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if:
(A) in case of an event referred to in sub-
paragraphs (i) (A) and (B) of this paragraph,
such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in
paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 12 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement has been executed and the
conditions precedent, if any, to the effectiveness of, or initial
disbursement under such Agreement have been fulfilled, subject
only to the effectiveness of this Agreement; and
(b) the Special Account has been opened as provided in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date                 / C3bis hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        5009 or
Cotonou                             5289


﻿- 13 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By     ~       ITiL,~~LW~~i
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By            IsI      ow'j       &   o
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                  1,310,000       40%
tools
(2) Civil works for               1,230,000        75%
Part D (1) of
the Project;
research
(3) Fuel, materials,              1,400,000        100% of for-
and spare parts                               eign expendi-
for Part D (1) of                             tures and,
the Project                                   if purchased
locally, 90%
of local
expenditures
(4) Civil works for               1,900,000        32%
Part D (2) of
the Project
(5) Construction and                250,000        75%
rehabilitation
of buildings
(6) Consultants'                   1,500,000       100% of for-
services and                                  eign expendi-
scholarships                                  tures and
90% of local
expenditures


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7) Initial deposit                 328,000
under Section
2.02 (c) to pre-
finance items
under categories
2, 3, 5 and 6
above
(8) Unallocated                   1,382,000
TOTAL          9,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower, provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 16 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that: (a) with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,500,000 may be made in respect of Category 4 on account of
payments made for works executed under Part D (2) of the Project
between February 28, 1981 and the date of this Agreement; and
(b) withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equiva-
lent of $130,000 may be made in respect of Category 5 on account
of payments made for expenditures for the construction and equip-
ping of office facilities under Part A of the Project between
January 1, 1981 and the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the percentage of expenditures specified in
respect of Category 4 in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, but without prejudice to paragraph 4 (a) of this
Schedule, 87% of expenditures under said Category for payments
made by the Borrower up to June 30, 1981 shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, or the disbursement percentage set forth in paragraph 5
above if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the


﻿- 17 -
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed (i) to strengthen the Borrower's
Directorate of Roads and Bridges (DRP), (ii) to continue the
rehabilitation of the Borrower's road network, and (iii) to
improve road safety in Benin.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of DRP's Administration
Construction and equipping of office facilities for an
administrative division.
Part B:   Improvement and Expansion of DRP's Workshops
(1) Rehabilitation and equipping of two workshops, one at
Parakou and one at Natitingou.
(2) Provision of equipment for the workshop at Cotonou.
Part C:   Training of DRP Staff
(1) Establishment and initial operation of a training center
at DRP's workshop at Cotonou: the rehabilitation and
equipping of facilities for such center and the training
of DRP's field, workshop and office staff.
(2) CERFER scholarships for DRP technicians to be trained
at CERFER.
Part D:   Road Rehabilitation
(1) Provision of new equipment for two road rehabilitation
brigades and the carrying out of a three-year rehabili-
tation program for about 500 km of laterite roads,
including the roads specified in the Annex to this
Schedule.
(2) Reconstruction and resealing of sections totalling about
84 km of the Cotonou-Hilacondji and Come-Lokossa -
Dogbo paved roads.


﻿- 19 -
Part E:   Materials Research
Research on road-building materials in southern Benin
and the provision to CNERTP of soil testing equipment.
Part F:   Road Safety and Axle Load Control
(1) Construction and equipping of a vehicle inspection
center at Cotonou.
(2) Installation of two vehicle weighbridges in southern
Benin.
(3) Provision of a road marking machine and installation
of road traffic signs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Laterite Roads to be Rehabilitated
under Part D (1) of the Project
Section                Class         Length
(km)
South:     Lokossa-Aplahoue        M             37
Bohicon-Ahlan            M             51
Akplo-Adjohoun           S             23
Ouidah-Allada            M             39
North:     Djougou-Parakou          M            134
Nikki-Kalale             S             50
Natitingou-Kouande       S             37
Total   371
M    -    Main Roads
S    -    Secondary Roads


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts C and E hereof, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 22 -
Benin may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Benin if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Benin equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated- bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 23 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for works under Part D (1) of the Project,
and the construction or rehabilitation of buildings and instal-
lation of weighbridges under Parts A, B, C and F of the Project
may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Civil works for Part D (2) of the Project may continue to
be executed under the existing contract awarded for paved road
construction under the Third Highway Project.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods, estimated to cost not
,- than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract and $500,000 in
tL, aggregate may be procured through international or local
shopping on the basis of a solicitation of price quotations from
at least two suppliers.
4.   Fuel may be procured by negotiated purchases from SONACOP,
the national oil company.
5.   Spare parts may be procured (i) pursuant to original equip-
ment supply contracts, or (ii) from local suppliers in accordance
with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿-24 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluat-
ion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿25 -
E.   Procurement Wit,,out Contracting
Road rehabilitation under Part D (1) of the Project and
installation of weighbridges may be carried out by force account
by MTPCH.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Main                     Secondary
Roads                    Roads
Cleared width (m)         15                      10
Formation width (m)        9                      8
Gravelled width (m)        6                      5
Minimum horizontal       450                       250
curve radius (m)
Maximum gradient (%)       6                        8
Minimum vertical
curve radius: Hog (m)    3000                     1500
Sag (m)    2200                     1500
Minimum pavement thickness for main ros.uj 15 cm


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198L.
FOR SECRETARY


