The World Bank
IOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.8373
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNION OF MYANMAR
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1253-BA)
FEBRUARY 12, 1990
Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Asia Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Undon of Myanmar
C<nstton Industry Project - Credit 1253-BA
CURRBNC Q IlVII
CurrenC Unit - Kyat (K)
US$1  =      K6.87 (at completion)
USS1  =      EK72 (at appraisal)
S-YSI O)F WSGH^  AND MEASURM: R-
1 foot (ft)                        0 0.305 mees (i)
1 mile (ad)                      - 1609 kilomets (km)
I squarefoot(sq ft)              u. 0.093 squaieimeters(sq m)
1 square mile (sq niA)           = 2590 square kilosLetn (sq km)
I pound (lb)                     = 0.453 lgrams (k)
I long ton (ton)                 = 1.016 netric tonnes (tonnes)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWP          - Associated Work Pogram
CC           - Consruction Corporation
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
GOM          - Govemment of Myanar
ICB          - Interational Competitive Bidding
IDA          - Intenadonal Developnent Association
MOC          - Ministry of Constrcon
PWD          - Public Works Department
SAR          - Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP         - United Nations Deveopment Prgram
vpd          - vesdperday
MYANMAR FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March31
M7



POR OMFCIAL Use ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oie Ca OuetcwCeawit
Optatmm IvtAuamn
February 12, 1990
IEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report -an Union of Myanmar Construction
Industry ProJect (Credit 1253-BA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Union of Nyanmar Construction Industry Project (Credit
1253-BA)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL Use ONLY
UNO OF MXANMAR
TOIRU,CTION    Sy PROICF - CREDIT 1253.3kA
,PROlBCT COMPL1UONRBRT
Table of Contents
Preface ............................                  i
Evaluation Summary ........ .....            . _.ii
1. Pr         e   I
1.    Proec    Identit  ...............................................   IL
2.  Background ...........................            1
3.  Project Objectives and Description ................ .........2
4.  P     Iect)eslgnandOrnization ..................... . . 3
5.  Projectd           ....................e.. ... .  4
6.  Project Results .................    ...    .     5
7.  Prject SustainabiltY .  ................--------------.. 6
8. IDA Perfmniance ....... 6
9.   orrerprrne ...........                 ..7
10. Project Relationsidp ........................ . . 7
11. Consulting Services -ndContractors......... ............ 7
12. PJmect Pocnenton and Data ........................ . . 7
II.    EartfI - The Boowees Project Completion Rgpor.        8
If    P   m - Summy of Statistkal Data
Table 1:     Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ..    28
Table 2      Ptoject Timetable    . . .              29
Table 3A.'    Credit Disbursenints . .     .30
Table 33:    DlsbuwsementsbyCdltCed  egoyt           30
Table 4:     Project Implementation ...............  .  31
Table 5A:  Project Costs    ...32
Table 53   Pnjwect indacg    ...32
Table 6:     Project Results    .    .    . ............ 33
Table 7:     Status of Covenants   . . .34
Table 8A:  Staff Inputs    ...34
Tabe 8B:  Missions    ...35
This document has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-1 -
UKMQN 1E M
CM  -1T1tUCrONDMUSTKYwRQ=c- CRDt1293-A
Thds 1s the Project Completion Report (PC1V for the Construction Industry Project in
Myanmar, for which Credit 1253-BA in the amount of SDR18.0 million (equivalent to apprordmately
US$20.0 millon) was approved on May 25, 1982. The credit was clnsed or, June 30,1989, one year behind
schdule. Disburseaents under the credit amounted to SDR17.94 million, and the final disbuzsent was
made on June 28, 1989, at which time SDR 0016 million was canelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Country Department H of the
Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and  D) and the Borrower (Part II) and Is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Credit Agreement; supervision reports; the
Borrowees own records; comespondence between the International Development Assodation (IDA) and the
Borower; and Internal IDA memoranda.



i-II
Qb ~ ~ ~ CbLcfimN  oEi
The objective of the Construction Industry Pr%ject was to address sozwe of the issues faing the
consruction industry by strengtning it and developing its capability in the highway sector, to enable it to
undertae efficiently the Increasing volume of development work. This was to be acdieved by establishing
three woring units within the Construction Corporation (CC), the largest operator in the Industry, and by
providing technical a,sstance t impnve the plannin and management abiities of CC The major
components of the pr,O-vt were (Part I para 32):
(a)   provision of veicles, muecanical equipment and spares for two rehabilitation units and
one maintenance unit
(b)   provision of workshop equipment and tools to carry out field mainteunace and repairs ard to
strengthen the capacity of base workshops to repair project equipment;
(c)   supply of survey, design and office equipment required for the units; and
(d)   tehnical assistance to establsh and assist with the operation of the units, to Include the
Introduction of costing, cost control and cost analysis of worts, and imov ent of quality
control and work planning.
The Construction Industry Project was appraised in November/December 1981 and the credit became
fective in September 1982. The IDA Credit (1253-BA) for the project amounted to SDRl8.0 million
(equivalent to appoximately UJS$200 million), all of which was disbursed except for SDR 0.016, which
was cancelled.
In order to bring about the proposed impents in CC operations, the units to be set up and
equipped were to carMy out an Associated Work Program (AWP) of nhabilitation and naintenance works
which had been demanstrated to be economically viable and which formed part of CCs wrork program (Part
I paras 33 to 3.5). The AWP would be financed fom the Goveremnt of Myamnn's (GOM) own resoures.
Although the AWP itself was not an integral part of the poect, one of the alms of the project was, by
means of the AWP, to raise the rate of completion of rehabilitation work to about 25 miles per unit per year
as compared with the then existi  rate of about 8 miles per year, and to speed up naintenance work by a
program of pavnent repair and resealing at a rate of 110 miles per year. Better control of mnateials and
work methods was expected to reduce the rate of pavenent failure frm 10% to 2% per year. 1kh
rehabitaton work covered 141 miles of the Sittang - Payagy - Toungoo road and the maintenan  work
covered 330 Iles of roads in an area to the south of Mandalay.
Sufficient consructional equipment was to be purchased to enable the three units to achieve an
improved rate of work, with most of it going to the rehabilitation undts (Pat I pua 3.6). Spares were to be
povided not only for the new equipment, but also for the existing CC fleet that was to woi!c on the projecL
The new fleet was to be maintained as a separate entity so that a history of operating, repair and
depreiation costs could be accumulated to provide better a  of outputs and real user costs (Part I
pua 3.7). The workshop equipnent to be provided was intended to supplement that which already existed



in the base workshops. In addition, soils and material testing equipment was to be procured toger with
survey and design office equipnent, technical literature, small data proessors and some radio equipnent.
The proect went very well  tially, with 70% of the bids for equipment bein reoeved by ebNury
1983 (Part I paras 5.1 to 55). Therefter, progess slowed because of the length of time (10 months) taken tn
evaluate the bids and to award contracts. Instead of being able to take advantage of much of the 1983/84
construction season, the equipment was generally not available until the folowing seon, in late 1984.
Also, the appointment of consultants was delayed for ten nths for much the same reasons, and they were
therefore unable to contribute any of the intended technical input to the rehabilitation works before the
work started.
As the project progressed, several events occurred which made it necssary to rethink some of the
project components. First, increased competition in the intemational market and a strwng dollar, resulted in
low prices for the supply of equipment and a reschedulin of the project works necessitated furier
purchases of equipment in order to improve the rate of working. These were conveniently made using part of
the savings from the first purchase. Additionally a quantity of additional spare parts were purchased.
Secondly, a deterioration in Myarunar's foreign exchange position caused acute shortages of vehicle fuel,
lubrcants and bitumen, which were to have been provided by GOM from their own currency resources.
US$22 mdllion of the uncommitted balance of the cedit was therefore used to finance the purchase of
lubdcants and bitumen. Thirdly, an unexpectedly large increase in traffic volumes on the project roads
resulted in the conclusion that the design of the rehabilitation works was inadequate and would last ordy
two to five years instead of the ten years plnned. IDA therefore attempted, with limited success, to
persuade GOM to change the specification for rehabilitation to a structdral layer of naturally occurring
granular mrateria! instead of the 3" layer of penetration macadam that was generally used.
CGOMs reluctance to agree to this change, which would have resulted in a better product, resulted in
about two months delay to the implementation while a compromise was negotiated. Eventually, GOM
agreed to construct three trial sections of road using the altemative methods that had been proposed and
these have yielded valuable nformation.
The decision by IDA to relieve GONVs foreign exchange difficulties by amending the credit
agment to allow the purchase of additional equipment, lubricants and bitumen, was of great benefit to
the project, which would otherwise have experienced much more serious delays and it i possible that the
AWP may not have been completed for lack of bitumen.
The project generally achieved its defind objectives, despite a one-year delay in completion (Pat
I paras 6.1 to 6.4). Ihe work program was completed by May 31, 1988. The credit dosing date was extended
by one year to December 31,1988 to allow for the delivery of the final orders for materials.
The projects overal goal, of strengening and enlarging the capacty of the Myamar construction
industry, was achieved and significant improvements were made in work planning and organization
through the financal and technical assistance provided by the project, despite the constraint of lImited
fuel supplies. The ognal project implementation schedule would have been adhered to but for the slow
procurw  procedures followed by GO1
It is expected that the results of the project will be suswtained as the improvements in quality
control, equipment n_geint and work planning and mana_geme are being used on other CC projects and
CC propose to continue to use the project units on other maintenane and rehabilitation work (Part I paras
7.1 to 7.3). The establishnent under the project of a computerized database will also have a lasting effect
on future contracts.



-iv -
Despite hcing some difficulties, this was a sucessful project. Supervision was well carried out by
IDA. The Bo1rwer showed a detination to overcome the difficulties and complete the project.
IDA lerned some valuable ssons (Part I pana 83) on the need for more thrugh project
prepation. The Borrower also learned some usefl lessons (Part I para 9.4) that shozlId be applied to
strmlnirng intenal Govenument procedures and to incorporating more flexibility into future projects.



COSTRUICQWLIu N r
Lr
-   ProjectName~ ...... ~                    ~Contction sndwtry Proiect
-   Credit No1.......... 1253-BA
-   RVP UnLi ---------------------------- Asia
- Countty ..... ~-~_Unionof Myannuar
- Sector. .....    ..~~ . Constnction
-   Subsectr_                   -    Construction lndustry
2.    Badkmnd
2.1    .ie ConsTheton        r.l fist Public Works Departmt (PWD) in the Union of Myanma was
formed in 1861 to undertake the construction of buildings, roads cnd irription works. Between 1917 and
1954, the work of the PWD was split between the National Housing Board, the Depatment of Highways and
the lrigation Depatent. In 1965,22 separate depaents and boards dealing with constuctim  work in
the country were amalgamated into the Public Works Corporation, which in 1972 beme the Construction
Corporation (CC). CC; in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), is the pincipal construction agency of the
Govenmet of Myanar (GOM). It is responsible for the monitorit and control of all construction work in
the country and also provides tenu  and other assistance to state authorities, cooperatives and pnvate
enterprise.
2.2          i. Between 1977 and 1981, the value of ntucdon work carried out in
Myan_r w=     1ed from $107 millon to $292 Milion In 1981 the public sector undertook about 85% of the
total construction work, of which CC, on avage, caried out 75% of road cowtucdon work and over 90% of
road maintenance
23    Eaors Affgli GQgzIon Work Unike many cuntries, the efectveness of the construction
industry in Myanwar was not hampered by a shortage of qualfied technical pemsonneL Instead, the nmin
deficendes were a lack of minimal equipmt and spares, poor quality suppies and a management system
operatig without adequate and reliable data. Consruction work was labor itensive because of the shortage
of equipment and spares, not because of lage labor surpluses. The countrywde  nployment rate, about
7% in 1981, tends to vary seasonally with the demand for agriculturl warkers and there wer regions where
labor was always in short supply. GOM policy towards the constructio inwdustry was therore formuiated to
address the issue of the deficienes in equipment and management experdse so that economic progress could
be maintained and valuable nrsources not wasted.
2.4    Jnms   In 1981, the cmstruction industry contributed about 2% to the total GDP, which is low,
even for dev-loping countries, but the growth rate was a healthy 16%. However, the transport sector in
general, and the highway subsector in particular, received low priority. Only about $11 million was spent on
road construction and improvement in 1981, while an inadequate $21.7 million was spent on maintenane. At
the time of appraisal, roads throughout the country were in a poor state of repair after decades of neglect
while traffic was increasing in numbers and in vehicle weight as the economy grv at a rate of 6.5% per
annum between 1977 and 1981. The adequacy of the existg highway inhatuctue was therefore one of the
major issues facing GOM as polcies were developed to povide the sign tifay larger constrction capacity
required to satisfy the demand coming from every part of the construction sector.



-2-
3.    2oecdIb        L
3.1                   The project aimed at addressig sout of the ius faing the constton
industry by strngthnt it and devekpIn its capability in the high    sectr, to enable it to undertake
effidently the lnaeng vohlme of development work The poject was to be the fht of seve  phases in
which the road opatin of CC, as th aget opeator in the industay, would be strengthened in selected
field operations byy:
a.    estabshig three working undts, two In road rembitation and one in road maintenance,
with the necessary equipent, vehides and mmediate worshop failities; and
b.    providing technical assiste to iove the work plar and magemet abilites of CC
within thse units.
Improvement of work planing and managernet would be brought about by Inroducig or strengthening
the operatons of costng and cost control, cost anluysis and quality contrl in the three units set up under the
projecL It was expected that later phases would attempt to stengten CC as a whole so tht it could operate
competitively with intemational contractors.
3.2    Descipton of the Project. Ihe project consisted oh
a.    provision of vehicles, mchanical equipment and spares for two rehabiltation units and one
maintenn  unit;
b.    provision of workshop equdpment and tools to cay out field maintenance and repairs and to
strengthen th capadty of base workshops to repair proect equipment;
C.    supply of survey, design and office equipment requred for the units; and
d.    tecdmil assistance to establish and assist with the operation of the units, to inlude the
Introduction of costin& cost control and cost analysis of works, and inmprvement of quality
control and work pannn.
33    Assoiated Work Pam (AWP). In order to bring about the prposed impments in rC
operations, the units to be set up and equipped were to cary out an AWP of rehabilitation and maintenance
works which had bee demonstrited to be econonicaiy viable and which formed part of CCs work program.
The AWP would be financed from GOM's own resources Although the AWP itself was not an integal part of
the project one of the aims of the project was, by means of the AWP, to raise the rate of corw on of
rehabiltation work to about 25 miles per unit per year as cmpared with the then edsting rate of about 8
miles per year, and to speed up maitene work by a program of pavement repair and meain at a rate of
110 miles per year. Better contrl of mnaterials and work methds was expeced to reduce the rate of
pavement failure from 10% to 2% per year.
3A    ReTabilitaton     This work was to inrde repair of failed ares, increasg road width,
providing extra base, laying penetration nmaadam and awplylng single seal dressing over the entire width of
the caageway, together with widening bridges, culve  and the road embankme  to give adequate
shoulders on either side. Work was plard on two muteE
a.    Payayi - Toungoo Road (115 miles), which is a part of the main route connecting Rangoon
and Mardalay and caried a traffic flow of about 800 veIcles per day (vpd), 85% of which
was trucks; and
b.    Payagyi - Sittang (26 mdles), which is the principal route between the Karen and Mon states in
the south and Rangoon and caried a traffic fkw of about 700 vpd, 80% of which was trucks;
ths traffic was expected to increase significant  with the completdon of two major bridges on
the route south of Sittang.
3.5                    ThIaintenan  Wo  This component was to cover about 330 mibs of roads in an area to the south of
Mandalay, which were cuTying an average of 60D -.d, with 65% trucks. The roads were generaly fairly
rrow and had deteriorated or failed because CC haa een unable to carry out the required perodic
maintenanc. It was planned to reduce the backlog of maintenance by cmpleti  about 110 ndles per year
over three years, using largely traditional methods improved by the intoduction of quality cntrol and sone
meanical eqpment to obtain higher standards of work



-3-
3S    Equpmmt. Sufficet consuctional equpment was to be purdsed to enable the three units to
achieve an knproved rate of work, with most of it going to the rehabiitadon units. Spares were to be
prvided vnt only for the new eqldpaut,. but also for the adsting CC fleet that was to work on te project
Equlpur -or produc   graded aggregates was to be provitad as the niadstone then available was often not
suiae for roadwrk. beas of Infior quality and poor gradiNg.
3.7   Mhe :w Ouat was to be mantain  as a separate entity so that a history of operati  repair an
depredadon cost could be acumuated to provide better     of outputs and real user cost. The
workshop equipnt to be provided was ntened  to supplermt that whih alheady existed in the base
wokhops so that equip   and vehie epairs   d be cred out effectvely. Soils and matal test
equipnt was proposed to allow field testing and quality control on site, and survey and design office
equFpu-t would allow the undts to operate Indpedently of CC headquarte  for survey, design and setting
out of the work. Te       lterature in the form of standard spedfications and codes of pactice, operatonal
handbooks and workig  anumals were to be provided to asist in the revision and modenizing of
spedfations and work methods in the units set up under the project and eventually in CC genraly. In
order that cost data could be coUlated and analysed quickly and be made available where it was needed, small
data proessors were to be provided, suitable for use in the field by ineienend staff. To improve
communications, some radio eqipment was tD be purchased.
4.    tI
4.1   The concept of a phased approach to imprving the operational effectiveness of the Myamar
constrction industry, rpresented by CC, was throughly discussed and agreed between IDA and GOM. A
preliminary IDA mission went to Myanmar in January 1981 and this was foUowed by discussions between
IDA and GOM in May and September of that year, when the scope and main featumes for a project were
ageed. It was aceped tiat th strategy of concentrating on the road constuction act!vities of CC and
operating though only a part of the organization without, at that stage, attempting to chang overall GOM
and CC polcy, created a limited objective that would have good chances of showing positive results. lte
project was prepared in a hurry, as GOM wanted it quicy, and no formal prepartion missions took place.
T}is omission probably resulted in some of the problems that the prject underwent durin Inpleniati,
of weak tediclha appisal and lack of apprecation of the Myanmar bureaucratic system. It is arguable that
the scope of h. poject should have been more ambitious, but little was known, at that ebme, about the
capabiiies of CC and its ability to successfully manage an IDA project Furer, it was r.ot possible to include
the roadworks of the AWP in the project because they would have to have been procured under ICB and
GOM was not wling to alow foreign corctors into Myanar to cary out wodrk, whch they considered
CC wu capable of doing suceully. In the liht of experience gaine during the project, when deficiencies
in the prcuement sstem caused considerable delay to the pess, the dedsion to liit the objectves of the
prject was probably the ght one. Under the circumstnes, t delays that ensued could be contained,
whes, with a more complex and ambitious project, they nay have got out of hand.
42    Appra   of the project took plce in November/December 1981, when general agree_met was
rached on detas of the pJoject, *e AWP, the scale of equipment and othe resourc  to be provided, and the
amount of tehidc assistanx eqd  In puttig togeher the project work program, use was made of the
Road Sectr bIprovement Study, financed under the UNDP Burma Umbrela Pject and coampleted in 1977
and of the Rangoon - Prome Road, Project Preparation Study carried out by CC in 1981. Negotiations took
place in April 19M2 and a credit for SDR18 million was approved by the Board on May 25,1982.
4.3   The project was well conceived when viewed in the light of the naow focus and Lmited objecdves
that were necessary becase of GOMs reluctnce to have a full-scale highway propet involving the use of
itnatonal  ntracts. The supply of eqpment for road rehabilitaton and maintenance and for the plant
workhops and the provision of teicl assistune to improve the management sidlls of CC addressed the
two main def       of the road constction industry which had been identified befoe appraisaL Because
of the grwing economy, hireasing road traffic and vast neglect of the road system, the need for acion was
becomg urgent and the tmdng was appropriate. 's - - was consideable enthusiasm for the prject from all
those involved. Rols and eponities were dearly defined and geally dte projct ran quite smoothly,
despite some delays, espeially so in view of the lack of previous experience of implementing IDA projects.



-4-
4A    Proet  p.qratio suffered frnt two main deficides. Because of the narrow focus of the poectf
which co_nbtd on providing equpm.rk and tecnul assnce to be applied to Inproving fte output
ad puimtan  of CC on projects witin their work progrm, not enough attention was given by th
apprsl miion to th engineri  aspects of the AWP. In pardcular, although the scfcatIons for the
work had bum agreed betwe: A. and GOM, It becme dear that a tecicl appraisal wa not  red out
of the deWl% or of the -Mtaton methods to be used by CC, when viewed in the Sght of the current tate
of tteu r=m ad the voume  trafdic foeas to use them  Alhugh the AWP was not an intl part of the
pojet and was being paid for entively by GOMK the cowsultats' terms of referece aled for them to eview
thedesinof thembabitationworkbefothe              tof work. Theappraia mission   nl d
that Cs constrion methods were outdtfed, but faied to appreciate the true extent of fhwe of the road
fomato  and no prvion was Inoported to emure that more modem and appropriate methods of road
rh  tion wee toduced frm the oute by cyng out a prop  desin study during appial and
Idkmifyi  the anst appropriate tdtnlog to be adopted. When the consultants, In rpe   to their tems
of f        proposed a design better suited to the conitions found on site, ther advice was not acted upon.
mTis had some adverse effect on the prgess of the works (see paras 52 and 53 below).
4.5    The second defidency in project prpaation was the adoption of an implementation schedule that
was too optimistic. ihe appraisal {ailed to appreciate the slowness of the Myannr bureaucratic nudminery.
Mhe thmes alowed for appointing consltants and eviwig and awardit  contracts for the procurement of
equipment were too short when viewed in the light of IDAs exper  in similar situatons. In the event,
delays of about a year occured because of slow prom t implementaton (see para 5.1 below).
5.1  Thw project went very wedl initaly, with 70% of the bids for equipment beg received by Februay
193. Thereaft, progess slowed because of the len* of time (10 months) taken to evaluate the bids and
obtain the necessary GOM approvals for award of contracts. Instead of bein able to tkde advantage of much
of the 1983/84 anstruction season, the equipment was gnerally not available until the following seasoz, in  a
late 984. Also, the appointment of consultants to cuy out the technical assistanice components of the project
was delayed from the planned date of December 1982 to Ocoe1983 for much the same reasons, and they
were therfe unable to contribute any of the intended techntical input to the rehabilitation works before the
work sawtec
52    As the prject progressed, several events occurred which made it necessary to rthik some of the
pject component First becuse of hreased competition in the intenational equipment market and a
st  dollar, the prics being obtained for the supply of equipment were wel below the appraisal estimates.
is situation was liky to reult in a are unexpended balce on the credit. Frther, in view of the delay to
the prwo   caused by te dlow conWct awad procedures, a reschedulin of the project works was caried out
which shorened the time for cmpetion  and necessitated further purdases of equipment in oider to improve
the rate of workig. These could be conveniently made using part of the US$5.7 million savings frm the first
puPchase Additionally US2.6 mflion of additlonal spare parts were purchased. Secnly, a deteroration in
Myanaes foreig exchange position caused acute shortge of veile fuel, lubricns and bitume  which
wee to have bet prvidd by GOM from their own cunency resources. US$2.2 milion of the uncommitted
balance of the credit was theefre used to finance the purhase of lubriants and bitumen but the problem of
fuel s   es  ned with the project to the end. Thirdly, an un ctdly lae increase in traffic volumes
on the prject rds resuted in the condusion that the design of the nrabiltation works was inadequate and
would lst only two to five yea Ismtead of the ten yers planned duing pject design. IDA attempted, with
limited sueos, to perude GOM to change the specfication for rehabilitation to a structural layer of
naturally ocurit  grnular materal instead of the 3" layer of penetration macadam that was generally used,
although a granular ovaeay was used on some stretches of the project roads in the later stages. Peneration
maca&m is the traditional surfacng in Myanmar, because it is relvely easy to lay in labor-intensive
situatlons and the workforce is faliar with the echnique, but it uses a lot of bitumen and provides little in
the way of structural stength. As suitable gravel was avaiable close to the road and required less processing,
the comsultants showed that costs would not increase despite a tebing of thcmess and an increase in the
amount of transport need to bring it to site. The amount of bitumen required would have been greatly



-5-
redued, Wesuldng in a   ficant foregn exchange saving to GOM,Iwho were originally fundi e AWP
6om tr own resowums
33    Dcuseof the lkelhood of an enbanasin breakup of the nwly ehabtitad road    ot
prjec ended, a decsion t chane the specfication at w exa ct shoud have be made by GOM on
practical ad ecomic grounds. However, on poHlical gounds, such a chage was unaeptble as ft
seemed to MOC, who disagreed with the coatns provided by thir consultants, that a   ailm  hn the
lergh bWng ehW   atetd and/or a delay In the zompIetior date tight ense It would appew that the
pFnject budgto made, was mmutab, bewause, though the total would not haw  ed, the inivial
compo_erts would havre qied adjustment.
SA    Beause GOM did not agree to this change, which wod have esulted in a better product, about two
monts dday ept into the Impleentation while a compromdw was negodated. IDA expressed itsef
reuta  to a&roe any furher equipme  or matlals contracts untl GOM agreed, as a minimum to
cons     g three tial sections of road using the altenative ethods that had been proposed, so that, eve
though ty would not benefit the on-going pojec, there would be sone point of reference to c ae the
perforance of the various rehabilitation nmds in the future. lslme trial sections were acostucted, as
suggested, and have yielded valuable infmation, which CC is now using on other projecs  So the presr
exerted by IDA has yielded some useful results.
5.5    Twhe dedsion by IDA to relieve GOIts foreign exchae difculties by amin the credit ageement
to allow the purhase of additional equipment and, more signifiatly, lubriats ad bitumn, was of great
benefit to the AWP, and therefore to the project itself, which would oherwise have exeieced much more
serious delm and It is possible that the AWP may not have been completed for lack of bitumen. About 28%
of the credit proeds were used for this additional procurement.
6.      u
6.1    Mm project genaly achieved its dd  objectives, despite a onew deiay in complo  The
delay casied by fuel shortes could not have been forseen at appais and were outside the control of CC.
However the dday caused by slow procuement procedures could have been allowed for. Most of the work
prgram was conpleted by the rvised completion date of March 31,1988, the balce beig completed by
May31, 196. Th credit dosing date was ededed by one year to December31, 1968 to allow for the delivery
Of the fnal orders for matweals, made to use up the balance of the credit funds in response to the foreign
ecehs}ortge
62    MTe prcecs overall goal, of strengthening and enlarging the capacity of the Myaur onstrcon
tndusry, was achieved withi th consuction units that were established. Sinficnt Ipoemet was also
acheved in work planin and  gazion thOugh the finandal and te  a asstance povided by the
projec. More secficaly, the objectives of the pject were to:
a.    Incse the rate of toad rehabiltation from 8 to 25 miles per year per undt
b.    reduc the failure rate from 10% to 2% of pavement area per year,
c.    complete a maintena    progmm, which induded the resealing of 330 miles of road over
tnes years; and
d.    estaish apprpriate equipment managennt, quality cDntrol and cost control and
accountirg systems;



-6-
63    Ac      mn       wards the above objectives were as follows:
a.    the rehbutation rate vared fom l1 to 28 mlw per year per uit and avenged out at about
22 mil udWer the constraint of lidted fuel saule;
b     a falure rate of less than 2% was acdeved whee a srctural oveday was used and quality
contro prcedur were folowed, but othrwise the rate was up to 5% where td adtonal
costucton medhod of penetration nmcdam was used;
c.    the _aineac proam was completed; and
d.    the equipment na_gement and quality control systems wee establshed, but their
imnplementon in field uts had not been fily completed, whle the cost cntrol and
acounting systes were pepaed, but were iarly not fully implemented.
6A    The original proj,ect imlementatin schedule was unrealistic only to the extent that the dow
plllwunent procedures followed by GOM shoad ve been allowed for. Th ete  of the fuel supply
problem could not have been anticpated at appraisal.
7.
7.1   It is expected at theresults of e project wiU besust  as the improWventsIinqualitycontrol,
equipment management ard work planning and    ageent are being used on oter CC pjet and CC
propose to contie to use the project units on other maintenance and rehabiltation work Also, the
establishmnt under the project of a computerized database of tender documnts and equipment
spedficaions wil have lasting effects on future contracts.
72    Although the cost control and accountig system intoduced by the consultants was of a traditional
fom, CCs experience with it has resulted in the omment that madng more use of existing CC reports and
foms would produce a more successful system, presumably because the staff are more faimliar with them. It
is expected that the new syste, modified if necessary, will continue to be used. The risk here is that CC will
fall back into using old and, possibly, inefficient reporting forms and the potentW gains to be made from the
new system wUl be lost. The late awrrival on the project of the consultas costing expert was a disadvantage,
as a system had evolved, which it was difficult to change.
73    Depte the fact that a stuctural layer was not eteilvely used for rebablitation work on this proe*,
CC has decded, based on their experience on this project, to use moden methods of construction for their
next project, the upgrding of the continuation northwards from Toungoo - Pyawbwe, and to use a strtal
layer where shown to be nceswy.
8.1   IDA's prfomance durin the poject has been mixed. It is dear that the technical aspecs should
havbeen blooked at rthlr more dosely during apprisaL The AWP was not an integral part of the project
and therefo  the design of the road rehabilitation was not scrutnized as it would normally have been during
appraisaL The resultant use of a thin penetration macadam laye, which impwved riding qualites but did
little for the strength of the road, was the unfortunate outcome (see para 4A above). Also, the pject
_ w I - mntationschedule was too optimistic in the light of procurement delays that enued from slow
procsIng by the Myanmar bureucratic system (see pan 4.5 above).
82    The project was regularly and adequately supevised and a good relationship was established with
GOM, CC and their consultans
83    Thelesss tobe leamed by IDA are:
a.    bette prpaation of the proet from a tecal aspect would have yielded much bette
results;
b.    more discussion with the Government and other parties cncened durng the preparation of
the project would also have rielded dividuds; and



-7-
C.    appraa miUsions shauld studw bu  cutic systheb of the couy to aive at realisti
ming for   vis which InWlveGownu       act
9.
9.1    DespIte tm e foingi cunugc antaint that were affeetg Myamnar duw   the time of the
perOec  e DBarrow' denmst  a tacom ndable detmnaIon to complete the proect suces y.
Wle el foons wewied tou                t Myamar nd  al poects we affted, this project was
hford with a kW fuel bwa    than ot
9.2   lbe Inal produ  that was the caus of th procmewt delays were, under the
dt"a s, lrgel  uviae It would, ow            be to thebnft of fueproe    the procedu
coud be tudid ead modi   to speed up the pr s without scrifilcing the budtsy control tat would
still be remy, by the depation of powes of approval to or levls under previouy  estblid overall
lmbts of expedtur
93    CoIdeing that this w  the fist IDA pjt  executed by CC, it perfmed well, although audited
acounts were not provided by the agreed date each year.
9A    Thw lesso  to be lerned by the Govenent are
a.    a streaml     of hemal Gon   rview and apval pocedus would gretlybet
hftue p ; and
b.    the abiity to hcwopoate some element of chne hit an on-gon project, where the product
is caly below standard, would be of great long-tr benefit to the country.
I0L
10.1  Some good relaosp were built up ding the projet and the oopeation afforded to IDA staff
by Myani offidals at all levels and by the consultant's staff, were  nt butory  ctos in makithis
projet mrun as smootly as It did.
1LC
11.1  Ihw consultans employed by CC to cary out the technical asssta   comonet of the project
perfonmed wel and applied theslves with paece and retaint to situatio  that were often diffiCult and
ustadn& situation that are co.m   In similar ountries elsewhe
112   The epme  sppe geaylly pefmed well, thWug there wse Itnes of equlipmet being
delivered that did not onfom to the ageed specifications.
IL         mM MdDAm
12.1   Te Credit Agut  otamined a few covenas, which were ausonable and which were al
cmnplied with, albit somewhat late.
12.2  11e Staff Apil Report povided a reasonabl good ramwork for the   mentaion of the
projet, though It should have looked  e closely at the tehl aspocs of the pavement desin for the
AWP. r1ming we somewhat unrealstic and some of the delays that ensued should have been foreseen.
123   Most of the data rquie for the PCR were availble and no problem have bee e qperiene.



-8-
GoNammo?IN iNxwST   PRmaIr-cREDrT im3-m
PFAJET CEPLEI'ION REIPRr
PARr It
1.       Project Design and Crganization
1.1      GOB and CC considered that the identification, preparation and appraisal
of the project were reasonably adequate despite unavoidable constraints
experienced in the course of implementation of the project.
1.2      CC.felt that as a result of failure to organize a forrmal
preparation mission. som problems such as a weak technical appraisal and
lack of appreciation of the Buzmese system were encountered during the
the iupleimntation of the project.
1.3      CC also failed  to foresee the deficiencies in the procurement
sytem. CC could haw  determined apprprate tbdng to be allowed for
the procunrent process in consutation with its e      n     central store.
At the prp     n  stage the report was presented in a rush as GOB wanted
it urgently. CC alo faile  to refer to its Central Laboratory in considering
ade8uacy of the pavement design before the project went anyfurther.
1.4      GOB on economical grounds was enthusiastic to honour the  bank's
appraisal in order to get the project promptly    nted  as it was
considered to be the first IDA project in Road Sector in Burma and road
rehabilitation work was urgently needed.
1.5      GOB policy was formulated to address the issue of the deficiencies in
equipment and mmnagement expertise so that ecnomic progress could be maintained
and valuable resources are not wasted. Hence lisnited objective was expected
in a short term with a little investment where achievement being through the
inplenetation by CC. A 3-inch thidc Penetration Macadam overlay was adopted
just to reduce the road roughness and rate of failure.



-9-
1.6       we ha expected that this project wu1d strengtten C as a whole
so that it could paticipate in futur  international coopetitive biddings
within and outside the country. As expected a conmltant tem from Ca. heded
by fote CIP Prject Director wa selected in November 1988 to provide
consultancy service in Southern Transport Project, funded by IDA in Lao
people's Defcratic Repblic.
1.7      It must be admitted that GOB's procurent system wa a lengthy
process and involved anny steps which resulted in a one year delay in the
completion of the project.
1.8      It is felt that the inpleiutation schedule in appraisal was
realistic.    ee  supply of fuel was t  primn factor for the delay in
the bzplentation of the project. It was obvious that the production rates
varied directly with the supply of fuel.With sufficient suply of fuel the *ate
of progress was found to be better than wtat was originally exPected in certain
periods as can be seen in Annex A.
1.9       Unconpleted portions of rehabilitation works during fiscal year
1987-88 had to be carried over to the next fiscal year due to shortage of
fuel. As soon as sufficient fuel requireunts were fulfilled these sections
of the road were conpleted in avery short tine by May 31 1988. The allocated
fuel being procured with the use of credit of US S 0.4 million was approved
by IN.
2.       Project RM]gntation
2.1      In the early part of the implemntation stage there were considerable
and serious discussions between the consultants and CC concerning any possible
changes to the design. The consultants advised to use thicker granular. material
course with double surface Maws ts in place of 3 inch thick overlay. This
type of granular base with double surface dressing had already been introduced
by SMC in Western Highway Project in Pegu Division. GOB carefully scrutinised
effectiveness of using both granular and pennmc overlays.Two short secttons-one
using penmac uverlay and the other granular overlay-were constructed and the
perforumnce were conpared.



-10-
2.2      roviaw of the design authod mm carried out by the consultant in
parallel with the   plvmtotation of the project which resulted son delay in
the proges of  -rk.
2.3      Originally G   intended to adopt structural grnular overlay an
the whole stretch of Sittang R:ad which is 26 miles long in the initial year.
on Totngoo Road it  elected 10  iles for strtal ganlar overlay and
15 miles for penc overlay in the sam  first year. Such construction methods
were to be adopted oly if the folizwing requirmnts were fulfilled:
(1)      No extr cot of the project should be incurred,
(2)      No additional equypnt and vehicles shuld be involved.
(3)      No extra time for cooltion should be allowed and
(4)      Rhabilitated paveient section should be in accordance with the
specified standards.
2.4      18 miles of Payagyi-Sittang Road was cospleted using Consultant's
design nuthod. For the remaining sections of both roads a 3-inch thick penrac
overlay was constructed due to-the following reasons:
insufficient supply of fuel to adopt granular construction method.
3-inch thicik csu c overlay requires less raterial than granular
overlay.
acute shortage of tiem to meet the scheduled target.
C's staff ware alzeady fandliar with the peulac overlay and no
special trainings wasr required.   and
labour intemive method could be used expeditiously when eqyuipnent
ware not available,
2.5      The consultant's strDng reconniandation on the change of the design method
persuaded IDA to insist GOB to carrunmt 3 trial sections on Toungoo Road using
alterntive design methods if GOB we  to receive the approval of ID for any
fwther procwnt of eqipunt and uterials contracts. GOB agreed to realise
IDA's gideline and the following 3 types of trial sections were constructed:



*             g-11-
*         -grma   Overlay.
*puc overlay   and
*cpletO pvunt reconstruction.
The desigeof thes  trial sections were based on the remdation
nmde by the witnts of Constnutlon Industry Ptoject in conjuction with
those nude by the Central Ead Rserch Laboratory and the then Rad Research
and Developnt Project. GOO also showed its enthusiaum to undertake monitoring
of the post-construction studies of the trial sections. This was followed by
a series of periodic tests on the said sections by the Central Read Research
Laboratory to study the perfori    of the pavunt unier changing cli ntic
conditions and traffic. The studies still continue to-day.
2.6      As far as status of credit expenditure was concerned GOB's intention
to fully utilize the credit before the closing date was accomplished.
3.       Costs
3.1      The cost of APP was funded by GOO. Reviews on the estinmtes nude by
construction units at the start of the project inlicated that the costs in
the appraisal a'wm underestilmated as there was no provision for repair of the
failed areas and regulating course. Moreover the quantities of crushed rock
for penmac overlay worked out in the original estinwtes were found to be less
than what wauld actually required. During implementation period the failed areas
ware heavily reparied with the use of special repair funds, which was provided
by G08. Thus the total cost of AMP was increased . A conparison of estimated
cost to actual cost of AMP should be referred to Table 1.
4.       Econofic Re-evaluation
4.1      CC undertook an economic evaluation of the project as coupleted
based on its principal components of the cash flow table. The results of this
evaluation and that made in appraisal for the Payagyi-Sittang Section are
compare and sumnorized below:



-12-
A.        Payaayi-Sittang Section
An increase of 341 in total net present cost.
An increase of 45% in total net present benefit.
An increase of 1.05% (Fran 14.95S to 16.00%) in ERR,
*        An increase of 0.12% (Frn 1.47% to 1.59%) ib B/C ratio.
4.2      The vehicle operation cost saving per vehicle per nile conputed on the
basis of the Road Research and Developnt Project model
KC * Exp (7.547 + 0.05141 IRI)
was found to. be in the order of K 0.88.
4.3      A 45% rise in the net present benefit contributed an increase in ERR
and B/C ratio even though the total net present cost was increased and the
traffic volume declined during the last few years.
Payagyi-Sittang Rad was conapleted earlier than the plan target. This
achievent effered quicker benefit returns.
4.4      Re-eveluated econanic parameters m  given below:
Parateter              ga=i-S$ttm-9         Pasyagyi-Tounqoo
s_t_on               Section
Total net present           32.47              153.39
cost
Total net present           51.73              382.77
benefit
ERR                         16%                24%
B/C ratio                   1.59               2.5
VWC per vehicle
per mile
(a) before project          K 3.12             K 3.12
(b) after project           K 2.24             K 2.24



-13-
4.5      On the whole the prject was a success and eomnaidcally viable  even
without tadng into consideration of the integbl  benfits such as better
magmunt capabilites and production capacity of the bad Units. All the
economic indicators were also satisfactory in the sense that the increase in
net oenefit produced favourable ERR and B/C ratio. At the smm tlmc saving was
achieved in vehicle operating cost.
5.      iPrject Results
5.1      The project achieved its defined objectives.despite a one year delay
in completion. The prim cause of the delay was of course shortage of fuel supply
which could not have been foreseen at the time of appraisal. There were also
several other reasons such as:
Lengthy procurennt procedures of GOB.
Belated submission of design review by the consultants
Delay in the process of decision making for design change on the part of
a..R
I>wever it was interesting to find that even with the then available
quantity of fuel whichts about 71% of the actual reqydrment the road units
managed to complete the whole project by  May 31. 1988.
5.2      Even todayb tUt is after 5 years of the project - tte riding quality
of both rehabilitated and nmintained setions are acceptable to the road
users S he surface gemtry and structutal condition of the pavint is still
in good shape.
5.3      As soon as the project was completed AWP equipnent of all sorts procured
under the project wre remallocated to other major projects and work sites within
the CC and have been in effective use ever since.
5.4      The equipvent spareparts valued at US S 2.9 million are still available
to satisfy the need for repair and maintenance for four years.



-14-
6.         's Ve
6.1      The Dank -eforvd well right frn the prepation stage to the
tin of closure of the credit. A good relahip  has also bee achieved
betwae the Duk and GOB or CC or the consultants.
6.2      Lessons which are worthy of note are:
(a)  the 1ank should undergo careful study of ecc-amc and
political situation of the country before the drawing up
of the initial work plan so that a better preparation of the
project could be node,
(b)  the conpleted section of the road should be kept monitored
ad evaluated throuout its design life and after.
7.       Borrower's Perfornce
7.1      Under the general shortages of fuel and problem with foreign
exchange in Ema, the borrower inrplenuted the project geerally in
accordance with project design and atte,ated a trzrendous effort to conplete
the project successfully.
7.2      As this was the first .DA project and the first  wiernce with the
Bank for GOB, OC learned nny useful less    frn the Bank such as:
(a)  the iqortance of factual infozution an reliable data for feasible
forecast and design at appraisal,
(b)  the result of lengthy prmr nt procedures.
8.       Project Relationship
8.1      There was a healthy and warm relationship among the Bank, GOB, CC and the
consultants all throughout the project duration.GOB and CC sincerely appreciated
the Sank's assistance and valuable advice offered by the consultants.



-15-
9.       Consulting Service
9.1       2w consultants performd their duties well in carrying out
technical assistance. Frequent discussion on design ?uthods resulted many
useful lessons for both CC and the consultants.
9.2      The services of the consultants were gene-ally satisfactory.
9.3      The technical papers and reports prepared by the consultants
during the life of the project were also mostly comprehensive and of good
quality.
9.4      There was only one exception in that the Costing Consultant was
recruited very late by the consulting firm arcing only at the last quarter
of 1985. The project was then one and a half years old and had been using
CC's accounting system very smoothly and in good momentum. The result was
that when he introduced the new accounting system it hindered the good
progress being made at that time. Should he had arrived ear'ier before the
conlIncIMent of the project and had started introducing the new system it
would have yeilded successful results.
10.      Project Docunmntation
10.1     Major loan covenants were corplied with dMLte late audit report.
There were no problems with legal agreenent.



-16-
Annex    A
Dwlam'ntation Schedule of AWP
Item              Original      ACtual         Percent       Actual Oipletion
PErn        Gxpletion    Coplete                  Date
Road Rehbilitation         miles       mles         100%         May 31. 1988
Road Maintenance       330 niles   330 miles        100%          Decenber 31, 1987
Technical Assistance  136M/m       128 M/m          94%           March 31, 1987
Procurement           46 Lots      113 Lots         245%         Decede  31, 1988
Yearly Program and Proess of AWP
YeryProgram and Progres (in Mile - Furlong)
Name of Work                 -i  FY                FY-  -   FY
1984/85     1985/86      1986/87     1987/88      1988/89
1. Road            FM         50 - 0       50 - 0      40 - 1          -           -
Rehabilitation  Ps         25 - 7      58 - 5       Jo - 1        17 - 1      8- 2
(140m-1F)                   (51%)      (117%)        (75%)
2. Road            Pm        110 -0       110 - 0     110 - 0          -            -
Maintenance     Ps            -         76   3     187 - 6        65 - 7         -
(330 m)                    (10%)        (69%)       (179%)
Average Percent
Completion                   (30%)        (93%)       (127%)
Note:  Pm a* Program            Ps -  Progress
Yearly ReqydrSenet and Availabillity of Diesel Fuel
Yearly NR t n AaMq y  i r -e.-Fel(                           n ga--.
Description    Total   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89
High  (R)    3979000   50000      1008000   1051000   1020000   850000        -
Speed (A)    2808388   2720{        49037    955273    815224   393312    127000
Diesel          (71%)    (54%)       (48%)     (91%)     (80%)    (46%)
Note:  R  a  Requirement                 A  = Availability



;   -                                      -17-
Table 1
Cgoiarison of Estimute Cost to Actual cost of WP
K '000)
sr.   Associated                  Estlzmte        Actual
No.      work                       cost           cxt
program                Total    Cost    Total    Cost               Rimnzks
per              per
mile             mile
1. Road Rehbilitation
(a)  Sittang Road        16,400    636      31.638   1.228   Cost increased due to
(25 nlles                                               increase in road width
6 furlonc'                                             fron 12 feet to 18 feet
(b)  Tomgoo Road       124,000  1.084    187.881   1.642   Cost inclusive of
(114 miles                                              Special Repair Funds
3 fu-long)
2. Road Maintenance
in Mxndalav Division     45,500    137      53,859   163      Cost inclusive of
(330 miles)                                                  SPecial Repair Funds



-18-
(Compiled from CC telexes 075/CXP/89 of 4/25/89, 076/CSP/89 of 4/26/89,
083/CZP/89 of 5/2/89 and 078/CZP/89 of 4/26/89)
A.  Pany-Young.  R.,4tn
7.01 Economic costs of construction and maintenance and the benefits of
savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) were tabulated (see Appendix 8) and
the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated. The following factors were
taken i$to consideration:
a.    The cost stream shown in the table is the actual economic cost.
b.    Traffic data obtained from a traffic count taken in 1985-1989 are
used in the calculation of benefit stream. we assuse the traffic
volume in 1990 will be almost the same as in 1989, but we expect
the traffic growth of 4.5% in normal conditions based on 1985
traffic data.
c.    Voc per vehicle mile of Ks 3.12 before the project and of Ks 2.24
after the project are obtained using the voc model for heavy truck
and the corresponding roughness (ZRI) before and after the project
(see below). For light vehicles the voc is taken as 0.55 of the
heavy truck value.
7.02 The ERR at appraisal was estimated to be 26 %. The new ERR is 24.8%.
The lower ERR is mainly due to the following:
a.   Although the Payagyi-Toungoo section was planned to be completed in
three years (1984/85-1966/87), the project was extended to 1987/88
as a result of late arrival of project equipment in the first year.
A shortage in the supply of diesel fuel in the later stage of of
the project definitely prolonged the project period up to May 1988,
and thus the project costs were affected.
b.    Due to the shortage of fuel in the later part of the project, a
significant drop-off of traffic volume occurred, which is
considered to be an abnormal circumstance for Burma. A higher ERR
can be established assuming that traffic volume increases and a
steady and adequate supply of fuel is maintained throughout Burma.
7.03 At appraisal the AADT was taken as 800 vrd in 1981 with a traffic growth
rate of 8 and the composition of traffic flow being 88% heavy vehicles and 12%
light vehicles. During the execution of the project traffic data was collected
as follows:



-19-
zfte  PE  MC!1-Y1rfn9  RaeStAMnwi
Year/Month               Total vpd         %Ueavy Vehs        %Light Veha
1984 Feb                    990                88s                12%
1985 Jun                   1198                73%                27%
1986 Jan                   1197                79%                21%
1987 Jan                   1200                74%                26%
1988 Jan                    903                72%                28%
7.04 At appraisal roughness was estimated by visual inspection. Before the
project, roughness was estimated to be 4500 mm/km increasing to 6000 mm/km
after 10 years.  After the project it was estimated to be 2500 mm/km increasing
to 3500 mm/Jm after 10 years.
7.05 In February 1989, mile by mile roughness measurements were recorded by
Road Research and Development Project (financed by UNDP) using NAASRA meter
with the following results:
R~mlmRryof Tfli Rnuass: Pnyayi.-TnGan Rae1inn
Section        Length (miles)    Average IRI    Remarks
60/5-93/0           33                5.6        Overlay completed in 1986
93/0-116/0          23                 6.1       Overlay completed in 1987
116/0-148/0         32                5.8        Overlay completed in 1988
148/0-175/0         27                6.0        Overlay completed in 1986/7
Average per mile                       5.8
7.06 The actual roughness after the project was compared with the assumptions
made in the appraisal report:
Rongbna     ~- fl1pAPiann. Paya   -EngagoJtann
Assumed in
Appraisal Report       Equivalent         Actual
mm/km                 IR              IRI
After Project            2500                  3.5              5.8
Before Project           4500                  6.0             10.5



-20-
7.07 The voc at appraisal and after the project are given in the following
table. After the project, the voc were obtained using the voc model used by
the UNDP project in 1989:
Vail    .At4Lng Cgmk*nG  PAy=I=TaMPnngo  JACtjg
(Ryats per mile)
Type of Vehicle          at Appraisal          After the Project
Heavy                        3.12                     2.24
Light (0.55xHeavy)           1.71                     1.23
Cost of R&.hnhJ1lta*4nn
7.08 Construction costs are given in the table below:
Co_t of Be    1t-ation. Panv s
Year           Length Constructed                      Cost
(Miles - Furlongs)                    (Kyats)
1984/85              10 - 3                          17,185,232
1985/86              48 - 3                          60,836,108
1986/87              30 - 1                          60,697,158
1987/88              17 - 2                          31,117,850
1988.89               8 - 2                            8,719,163
TOTAL           114 - 3                         178,555,511
7.09 As roughness measuring equipment was not available during the project, a
number of travel time surveys were carried out before, during and after the
rehabilitation work. These give a qualitative idea of the improvements
achieved and the benefits to road users as a result of the CIP. A summary of
the survey fo;- the Payagyi-Toungoo section is given below:



-21-
Distance - 49.4 miles
Date                Condition                Travel Time        Average Speed
Minutes               MPH
March 1984          Before Project              110-130              27-23
February 1986       Overlay 78% complete
22 restrictions               91                 32
May 1987            Overlay 100% complete
2 restrictions              65-75               46-39
B. tAfi       t tan. 4ts
7.10 Economic costs of construction and maintenance and the benefits of
savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) were tabulated (see Appendix B) and
the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated. The following factors were
taken into consideration:
a.    The cost stream shown in the table is the actual economic cost.
b.    Traffic data shown in the table shows the drop in the traffic
volume during the period 1985/86 to 1988/89. We also expect the
AADT for 1989/90 will be almost the same as in 1988/89, but the
normal traffic growth rate of 4.5% has beer. used after 1989/90.
c.    The total benefits due to the increase in voc are calculated by
using the actual traffic data up to 1989 and the estimated data
after that.
7.11 The ERR at appraisal was estimated to be 15.0 %. The new ERR is 16.3%.
The decrease in traffic was compensated for by a shorter construction period of
two years instead of three years estimated at appraisal.
7.12 At appraisal the AADT was taken as 700 vpd in 1981 with a traffic growth
rate of 6% and the composition of traffic flow being 65% heavy vehicles and 35%
light vehicles. During the execution of the project traffic data was collected
as follows:
'Paffi* Payaqyi-RI?tnng Sqinn
Year                     Total vpd         %Heavy Vehs        %Light Vehs
1984/85                     700                80%                20%
1985/86                     643                64%                36%
1986/87                     564                65%                35%
1987/88                     371                64%                36%



-22-
7.13 At appraisal roughness was estimated by visual inspection. Before the
project, roughness was estimated to be 4500 MM/km increasing to 6000 am/km
after 10 years.  After the project it was estimated to be 2500 mm/km increasing
to 3500 mm/km after 10 years.
7.14 In February 1989, mile by mile roughness measurements were recorded by
Road Research and Development Project (financed by UNDP) using NAASRA meter
with the following results:
Runnnnv imp YRTh? fnamns P&MON4.Afi_g R_*14ttnn
Section        Length (miles)    Average IR!   Remarks
60/5-63/6            3.1               5.4       Overlay completed in 1985/6
63/6-83/3           19.6               6.2       Overlay completed in 1984/5
83/3-85/3            2.0               5.5       Overlay completed in 1984/5
85/3-86/3            1.0               5.4       Overlay completed in 1984/5
Average per mile                       6.0
7.15 The actual roughness after the project was compared with the assumptions
made in the appraisal report:
R6Ihn.  _ _ _ _ ~4. Pyg{.Ri.s.an. . R..... __  
Assumed in
Appraisal Report       Equivalent         Actual
xun/km               IZR               IRR
After Project            2500                  3.5              6.0
Before Project           4500                  6.0             10.5
V.hie1. es rate4n  Csatas
7.16 These are the same as for the Payagyi-Toungoo Section.



-23-
7.17 Construction costs are given in the table below:
ef  hni1it~ton!~ Pazey*v-1vg   tin
Year           Length Constructed                      Cost
(Miles - Furlongs)                     (Kyats)
1984/85              15 - 4                           17,963,565
1985/86              10 - 2                           13,674,957
TOTAL            25 - 6                          31,638,522
Travel Tt me
7.18 As for the Payagyi-Toungoo section, travel time surveys were carried out
before, during and after the rehabilitation work. These give a qualitative
idea of the improvements achieved and the benefits to road users as a result of
the CIP. A swumary of the survey for the Payagyi-Sittang section is given
below:
Tri  *       PaZaggf Atnng nEt_inn
Distance - 25.4 miles
Date                Condition                Travel Time        Average Speed
Minutes               MPH
March 1984          Before Project              90-120               17-13
February 1986       Overlay 78% complete          43                  35
February 1987       Overlay 100% complete       30-36                51-42
C.    =     =    =ndna
Irraffin!
7.19  At appraisal the AADT was taken as 600 vpd in 1981 with a traffic growth
rate of 6% and the composition of traffic flow being 65% heavy vehicles and 35%
light vehicles. It has not been possible to carry out traffic counts in this
area since the project started. There is therefore no up-to-date traffic data.
RBaOhnaa
7.20 At appraisal it was assumed that the roughness after the project would be
3000 mm/km increasing to 4500 mm/km after 10 years. No measurement of the
roughness has yet been taken by the UNDP project after the project. By means
of visual inspection and comparison with, the roughness after the project was
estimated to be 5000 mm/km increasing to 7500 mm/kn after 10 years. Generally
the reduction in roughness achieved in the Maintenance Program area has been
better than that achieved in the areas of rehabilitation.



-24-
7.21 xt was found that travel time hao been reduced by more than 40% because
of the reduced roughness.
7.22 The cost of the maintenance program is given in the table below:
. E Ka4i,lpnpnj~p. Mandal  Araa
Year           Length Maintained                       Cost
(Mlles - Furlong3)                    (Kyats)
1985/86              76 - 3                          12,230,015
1986/87             187 - 6                          27,075,643
1987/88              65 - 7                          14,553,626
TOTAL           330 - 0                          53,859,284



COUSIU     U INDUSTRY PROAYT CR OAD
COSTU41_IT TAUE: PAVAGITOUNGOO SECTIO
0Kyat . MEMuuO
S1or.         Uoime  b  ssom           Total      Wv d    TONI Wv    VeIkb         gToal       PV 1     TNta   V             No  se. To"ta  Nl
me.  TooY    oesnmstIea Eaos.a  Eoseub           Cosls    et Cast    Oatbng         m. it     _ lsolta  so immom               Vehe    ftosin          n_mers
Coat       Cost        C"t                          Cat salg                                                               Y
1  168405        17.1"                  17.16     16.03      ISO23         0.oo      0.04       0.o        0.o      -15.02      MA7.N    -15. 2 f       Pus.
2  1085/8         0.u                   70.611    60.27                      at.  3 S  a.s1     3 .00      3.0      .47.37 7    57.sa   .6.
3  1366/0        60.69                 133.71     45.O      I.            320.4S     13.        1.36       .20      .0.23      .40.3 R.3.   t. Rs-mpai2           .
4                                      S07N  31. tt0.  2t.2S  12.71       30.21      54.181    20.0       03.0       .01        .0.     .0.
6  10600          6 e.71               17.s        5.4      130.17        26.02'     S.0        16.60     SL.        11.141    .s1o    -02.o .Z t        oen
6  1:0::10                    2.2      S6.          1.30    10.X4         28.62     10002       10.32     71.        is.       21.U    -.67.         so_f _
7  19S0091                    2.20     S63.1 t      .t      h4O.0        .1O.       16t.5T    24.        36.0       23.        40.371   .4s.
*    9101/02                  2.26     165.        1.06     141.601       10.       200.41     23.71      120.571    12.6       40.      .11.1 1 3   R    .Mm
*  1 92123                    2.       107.6       0.W 6    142.          la,       3.5         22.'S6    143.1      1.6" P0.              0.     4       -.
10 0103104                    2.       Se.ll        06       143.5         :5.54 310.           11.40     10.50       30.       63        16.0
11  1004105                   2.13     101.         0.7      144.35       5.01      370.001     20.39      14.2       0.53      55.73      40.         4 .  _ _b0'
:a 100/0                      120      104.61       0.7      14."         60.62     436.70      1.1       304.1       16.50     5.6b 50.00    at 10           bl
13  1065/0                   1101    100.70        0.06     145. 40.3              500.00      10.31     212.51      17.9      61.0     76.7
14 100D7/6                    2.20     100.07       0.t      140.at2      00.30     560.2z      17.42     230.        16.e      60.63     63.2 e. AOlas  *S 16.           U
tS  1060/6                   11.tl3    10.01        1.83     149.1        0.16      035.t ?0.50           250.5       13.       17.4  107.3 51
ts  10000                     320t   11.1           0.4      140.6        72.a      707.7st    15.73      172.1       I.a       70.02      s.U
I 9 2000101                   2.    5.47            0.451    t50.1        75.55     76331 *      404      157.101     4.49      73        97n
t0 1001/01                    1.10     117.7        0.41    150.51        75.6      051.16l     14        30130       13Ss.7   76.67    1SOJ6
10   2000                     2.10     130.03       0.3      1              20        a..0701.2044.7  13.4L 34.       3.11      60       163                1
20  200/041                   2.30     210.31       0.33     151.22      e6.n1   "030.6         11.01     327.60A     s2.47     6.03    170.47
21  100406                    1 2.0    224.53       0.30     III.         00.      1131.00      11.17     330uo       11.65     67.61    160.
12 2005103                    13       120.6        0.        .0          64 s215.13            II.        MAN         1.3      01.6    10.2
293 2006107                   2.       223.1        0.26     152.66                1a31.02      10.0      302.42      10.73      0.11    210.3
24 2007106                    12.0     131.         0.19     161          1023.1    141644      10.4      372.       to0o       10.63    110.50
25 2000/0                    11.03     243.20       1.09     15.3         107.4    1523          901      362.7S       _.a      nS.o210.
EL  * 24.6%
P _"tmh Pder  * 9 go"
Aidt/C   Ail - 2.5
tZ r
tot



CONSlhUCT1N IIASTRY PR0JECT (CR 126"a
R10AIOO.AVOV.UIROtf RO40
COSI4EINEI TaBLE: PAVAGVYIT1A   SECT101O
MS* MEns
set.          lineal.    Enelb          Total      VW d    Tstul PY      Vehlt.       Total    PR ao   Tlt  PP         tPY       t  Ee   TOWl N
me.  Vee  Coeualtba blalatas   Bon         s"     costs    St Coat    Op toUag    SousIte  Bonefflt  as send"                    VYlu     presses           es_na
Cost        Cat        Cosl                          Cos l Sawts                                                           Vale
I  loeSolS       17.54                  t1.0       to.st      toast         0.o0       0.0oi      0.05       0.0      -10.31    -I7.04   -16.231  EmoomsnW PwOamaT
2  100516        15.67                  a.eo       11.30      87.0          2.07       8.67       a.a1       2.1        9 20 700.     .2I.4
a  1986167                    0.64      326         0.4       20.11         1.66       4.241      1.1        5.         0.09       0.01    .24.   1. RbsdL 2bIopm
4  1067100                    0.64      s2.0a       0.4       2a.           2.66       6.0        1.705       .41       1.91       1.921  .22.41
O  10800                      0.04       3.571      0.s       280.          2.66       0.271      1.50       6.7        1.10 1.921   .22.2  2. Traf das 
6  l066I00                    0.04      U4.2t       0.so      20.3          6.e       t16.221     3.06      30.6         .50       CM    .16.21 m        bUds _ _
7  10001019                   0.64      54.65       0.91      20.0          7.15      23.57       3.07      14.2        .34        65      -S.37
6  1991192                    0.64      05.0        0.a       209.0         7.48      20.0        3.40       7.7?       3.10       0.6    .12.a a Fcuh nnbuim
0      190                    0.6        6 30..2              20.22         7.0)      2.          3.31      21.0        3.04       7.175   .0.1      a    M.pSW
10   003/04                    0.44      S6.701     0.2        0.4          6.16       40.64      3.1       24.2         2.001      7.5      4.2
040                            0.644     27.        0.         0o.6         6.55       55.31      2.00      27.2         2.76       76 .s *s4        Neel.t.imu
12  100506                    1.6        s0.os      o0.51     31.           6.         04.30)     2          50.06       2.53)      7.0     *.1.     U 10pm btnnb
t2 3106/07                    0.         ss.6       0.10      51.3          9.32       73.62      2.7       32.78        2.51      8.07      1.
14  1007/0                    0.04       40.32      07        3.. a7                   03.         2.65 0.32             2.aG      0.0       an     ls. oouui Plh, Io       0
S  OSOiso/                     0.64     4to.0771     0.1      51.7          10.1      03.         2.43      37.7         2.28      0.        6.
16  ss1o0l 0                  0.64       41.1       0.1       81.0          10.       164.16      2.31      42.070      2.17       9.        B.21
7  2000/01                     0.04      42.20      0.12      21.0          11.1      11t.2        2.10    Z422         2.0        10.4     t0
16  200110                     0I.U      42.0        0.11      32.1         11.01     126.01       2.0e      44.5        1.07      10.07     z2.
109 20 02U0 103                0 .0e4    43.         0.1      52.           12        15005        1.06     40.8 a. o               . 4      4.1
20 200U04                      0."       44'.1       0.0       52.3         12.       151.74       I.        45.25       1.        12.04    15.0
2a  20040                      0.64o     44.62        .        3.o 2.a9a1 20          164.2 t.701            6.0  .70              12.61     17.6
22  200400                     toa                             3-.10  32.   1a.o6     170.e s       .        61.         1.50      12.2     10.)
ERR * 1t.3%
p q PlPd - 12.6 ra
m_ tCa Ral - *.69
#10
0.
D
n- t



-2 7 -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
MON WA AI TA          Y
*   Id    ~MAAVUVO
pDt)  I#G VAN    AUKSE
CHAr                              TAUNGyOI
i.xKYAUPA     0
PYINMANA
TOUNGOO d
DA Y                    ~~~~~ROME
BAY~~~~~~~~~~Y
OF                   THARRAWADDY
HENZAOA
BENGAL                                   PAYAGY        SITTANG
PEU,
Read R.hablttloa t._.
P-*t  a-ftnanco AreaDBURMA COtISRUCTION INDUSTRV PROJECT
Pllot Mettonanee Area 
MAP
L               .,



-28-
1.    BktiLuIda.kku andIorMA.C=dit
Loan/Credit                                Year of
Title                    Purpose        Approval      Stltus        Comments
Cr. 413-BA                 Waterway
Inlard Water Transport     Development      1973        Complete
Prct
Cr. 414-BA                 Railway
Third Railway Project      Improvement      1973        Complete
Cr. 671-BA                 Port
Second Ports Project       Development      1976        Complete
Cr. 1372-BA                Port                                        Closes
Third Ports Project        Development      1983        In Progress    3/31/91
Cr. 1615-BA                Tinber
Timber Distuibution        Transportation    1985       In Progress    Closes
Project                   Improvement                                  3/31/90
Infrastructure Rehabilitation   Infrastructure          Under          Negotiated
Project                    Rehabilitation   N/A         Preparation    8/88



-29-
Date
Item                   Phuned              PiRsed                  Atua
FebSt Mention in Fls            -                                       03/25/81
Governnmnt's Applcatkin         -                                         N/A
Identfiation                                                              01/81
PrjectEbief                     --09/0/91
Preparation I                                                             05/81
II                                                             09/81
Appraisal Mission I           12/81                                       11/81
E              '                     ~                   03/82
Czedit Negotiations          05/03/82                                   04/05/82
Ebard Approval               06/29/82                                   05/25/82
Credit Signature                -                                       06/28/82
CreditEffectivenm            09/28/82               -                   09/20/82
CreditClosing                12/31/87            12/31/88               12/31/88
CreditComplon                06/30/88            06/30/89               06/28/89



-30-
(US$ l00)
IIID FY    1983    1964    1985    1966    1967    198    199
Appasal l Estite              40     l1,000   17,600   19OW   19,750   20.A0
Actual                        0      1,98D    10,480   12,870   16,400   19,110   19M820
Acua as % of Esdate           0        18      60      6(        83      96       99
he fn  disbu_ment was nude on 06/28/89 and the undlisb d cedit baane of SDR 16,20.82
(equvalent to US 20566   at SDR 1 - U5S t277) was cancelld effective 06/28/89.
B.             byyQs=ao
(SDRmllifons)
Credit                         Actual
Catery                     Aocation           %            Aoun              %
at Appsal                       Dis
Vehicles,Equipment,
MdalsandSpaeParb              15.30           85.0%          16.50           91.6%
Technical Assistanc
and Tanin                      135             7.5%           12              6.7%
Petleum Products                                                 0.30            1.7%
Unallocated                       .5             7.5%            0.00            0.0%
1840          100.0%           18.00          100.0%



-31-
ODae9                                      Conqeby
t = Sbrt                                                            wad                  ofW!k   xp wj.ze
covoe        Acta          b       cu       vedAtd                                               Due
EqWpwad~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~%fWk
t~~~~~~~~~~~~Ita
PNi_menit        9/03    12/82       1/84    4/83        4/84    7/83        11/84    3/84           0
Road Reb talion    -                              -        10/84    1/84        5/88    3/88           81
RoadMaltmwm          -        -9                            5/85     1/84      12/17    3/88          1X
Tecrdeu l
AsLsane         12/82   10/82       10/83    12/82      10/83   12/82        3/88     3/88          100
1982    19UM    194    19AI    196         1967    1Me6
1. Project Effectiv                           *
2. Prowe Speclfications n invite olds                             am
3. Reeive Bids SW Evaluate .
4 EauiPment Doelivey                                   _
5. Rehbiitattmr PWaYg  - Sitta  (Unit 2)
. Reallition  P1aI - Toungee (Unit 2)                             _             =     _
7. Reh1ilitstilet P1g  - Town g(Unit 1n  )                       _              _
8. Maintenhnci Muulay  _                                      -  _              -  _
9. Technical As ita 
Expected implementation         Actual Implementation
[



1!   0Xg loo   lXlI0
i           '.; , 4   '4    p  4    1               t     1
k~ ~ |0                  0f| !           |          
i   j    5         |gl  2|             1}1000Xgl
U I    1t10X X S                       *1l}jill0



-33-
A.
(not applable under ths proect)
-~~~~~~~~            cul       conu.nats
Bun   Ila]  21bM  31cI
Ecwn* Rate of Return -
WholePoect                23.9  223   20A   16.0         22.0
Ranon-Touoo-Mandalay  26.O(dI  -        -      -         24.8
Payayi-slttg              154.dJ         -               163                 [l
Note: [a] 20%reductiontnoutpus
[bi 20% huncem h costs
[ci 20%reduction in outpub and 20% zease i costs.
(dl   ues povided by CC. mfonntlon not available in pj,ect SeL
(not applible under tis pject)
D.  bdia
None arried out under thds Prject)



-34-
7.
D_alie for
COMM*           SUte                                   CoGWlim          SW"
Credit Apima
3Al(bXDiD    Make a, saticoy to IDA, for
thecarrylgout byCCof theAssodated
WorkdPrga                                 10/01/82         CopIled
3.02         Estai, maintin and operate until
completion of projt, a Proect Cell within
CC with staff, powes and responldes
satsfato y to IDA.                        10/01/82         Comld
3.03         Enter Ino a conact of empioymwt with a
consult  fim, whose selecton, qualmcos
exerience and terms and cowndi    of                       Compiled
employmen shall be satifcbtory to IDA.    12/31/82         10/83
A. StffJnw
Steof                   Numof
Pt    kCyce               Stbf-wefks      RPurk
Trou hAppsa                         79.0         111
Appraisafl th=
Bod Approval                         225        (11
Bad Approva
thouh Effevness                      16.1 
SupeWvision                          47.6
TOTAL                          1652
Notes  [11 Estimes, as MIS divides up lending operatio in dilfSet way.



-35-
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~3 .                 ula
Swgeof     Month/  Nuu*er of  Days    Spn                Peuforne        TYPof
Praen Cyde    Yew      Persons  ined        pu 1          Ratbig Satsu21  P_1mm(31
Ihouh Appas -  No p_msphon    lemi       arted out Two ned    etweven Ass ton sf   and
Myannur officals took plwe on 05/06/81 in Tokyo and on 09/21/81 in Was_nton.
Boad Appiwal -
Appraba I      11/81        4        21 EBCN/R/FNA/TRtG         -             -
Appsal I       0/82        1        10        ECN              -
Boad Appmval
thru Effectemss -
SupervisionI   08/82        1        17         MSP 
Supervsion -
SupwanisionU   10/82        2        14      ECN/BEGR            I
SupervonM      01/83        1        7          ECN              I            -
SupervisionIV    04/83      1        4          ECR             -             -
Superlsl*onV   10/83        1        7          CIHF             -            -
SuprvfisimonVI   11/83      3        14    ECN/EGR/MSP           1            -
SupwrvsionVIl   03/84       1        7          BCN              I            -
Suprvision VI   06/84       1        7          ECN              1            -
SupervisonD(   04/85        1        7           IGR             2            T
SupbWlomX     10/85        3        10     ECN/ECRx2            2 [4         -[41
SupervlslonXl   03/86       1        7          BCiR             2
SupervWsioXnI   11/86       1        5          BCR             -
Supervision)I  01/87        1        7          FNA
SupervlslouaV   11/87       1        7           V               1I
NOTES  [P1 ECN0  Ecoormis;t EGR - Enrgneer, FA - Financia AnalystCIF - Division Cldf, MSP 
Mechdadnie Equipment SpecIaistN, 1W . Traport SpeciasL
[21  1. Problem-free or Mknor Problns, 2-  Modete Problim
D[ Tm TechticaL
141  Ratng syswn changed. Problen, no long. stated on Fbmn 590- Supervsidn Reports.



