Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3809-BA
BURMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
April 23, 1982
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =        Kyat (K)
US$1.00               =        K 7.2
US$0.14               =        K 1.00
US$138,888            =        K 1,000,000
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: BRITISH
British System                 Metric System
1 foot (ft)           =        0.305 meters
1 mile (mi)           =        1.609 kilometers
1 sq foot (sq ft)    =         0.093 square meters
1 sq mile (sq mi)    =         2.590 square kilometers
1 pound (lb)          =        0.453 kilograms
I long ton (ton)      =        1.016 metric tons
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CC     -       Construction Corporation
cif    -       Cost, insurance, freight
GOB    -       Government of Burma
MD     -       Managing Director
MOC    -       Ministry of Construction
MPF    -       Ministry of Planning and Finance
PPF    -       Project Preparation Facility
PWD    -       Public Works Department
SDR    -       Special Drawing Rights
SEE    -       State Economic Enterprise
UK     -       United Kingdom
UNDP   -       United Nations Development Programme
VLD    -       Vallentine, Laurie and Davies
vpd    -       Vehicles per day
BURMA FISCAL YEAR
April 1, 1980 to March 31, 1981 - FY 1981



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
A.   General    ................................................                                         1
B.   The  Construction  Sector    ................................                                       3
C.   The  Construction  Corporation    ...........................                                       6
II. THE PROJECT
A.    Background    ...........                   ..................................                   13
B.    Objectives    ...........                   ..................................                   13
C.    Description    ............................................                                      14
D.    The  Work  Program    .......................................                                    15
E.    Equipment    ...........                  ...................................                    16
F.    Training          ...          ...........................................                       18
G.    Technical  Assistance    ...................................                                     19
H.    Cost  Estimates    .........................................                                     20
I.    Execution  of  the  Project    ...............................                                   22
J.    Project  Monitoring  and  Reporting    .....................  .                                  23
K.    Procurement    ............................................                                      24
L.    Financing  and  Disbursements    ............................                                    25
III. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.    Main  Benefits  and  Beneficiaries    ........................                                   26
B.    Economic  Evaluation  of  the  Project    .....................                                  26
C.    Environmental  Effects                 .................................                         28
D.    Project  Risks  ...........................................                                      28
IV.    AGREEMENTS  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS    .............................                                       30
ANNEXES
Annex  1 -  Draft  Terms  of  Reference  for  Technical  Assistance    ... ...                                   32
Annex 2 - Economic Evaluation of the Project "on its own".                                                 .  38
Annex  3  -  Contents  of  the  Project  File    ...........................                                     40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
Table 1 - Shares of Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin       41
Table 2 - Value of Construction Work, by Sector  ....      .............  42
Table 3 - Construction Corporation Staff  ........................  43
Table 4 - Construction Corporation Expenditures (1976-82)  .......  44
Table 5 - Major Works Undertaken by Construction Corporation
During FY82 .........................................  45
Table 6 - Construction Corporation Income and Expenditure
Summary  FY78-82    .....................................  46
Table 7 - Construction Corporation Balance Sheet Summaries
as  at  March  31  FY78-80    ..............................  47
Table 8 - Estimated Construction Costs: Payagyi-Toungoo Road .....    48
Table 9 - Estimated Construction Costs: Payagyi-Sittang Road .....    49
Table 10 - Estimated Maintenance Costs of 330 miles of Road .......  50
Table 11 - Equipment Costs for Project Units  .....................  51
Table 12 - Schedule of Workshop Equipment  ........................  54
Table 13 - Schedule of Estimated Expenditures  ....................  56
Table 14 - Schedule of Estimated Disbursements  ....     ...............  57
FIGURES
Figure 1 - Organization Chart of Ministry of Construction  .........  58
Figure 2 - Organization Chart of Construction Corporation  .........  59
Figure 3 - Details of Rehabilitation Works ......................... 60
Figure 4 - Schedule of Technical Assistance  ..................... . 61
Figure 5 - Organization Chart of Typical Rehabilitation Unit ....... 62
Figure 6 - Project Implementation   ................................  63
MAP
IBRD 16279 - Map of Project Works
This report is based on information provided by the Government of Burma
and on the findings of an appraisal mission in November/December 1981
consisting of Messrs. R. Auzmendi (Economist), H.S. Thriscutt (Civil
Engineer) and S. O'Humay (Financial Analyst). Additional reports and
data relative to the project available in IDA are listed in Annex 3.



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. The Construction Industry
A. General
1.01      Burma covers an area of about 262,000 square miles, and consists
of lowlands in the basins of the rivers Irrawaddy, Chindwin, Sittang and
Salween, surrounded by hills and mountains to the east, north and west and
divided by a hill range running from north to south in Central Burma (IBRD
Map 16279). Total population is about 34.0 million, growing at a rate of
2.2% per year, with about 25 per cent living in urban areas and the rest
dispersed in a large number of villages located mainly in the river basins
and in the Irrawaddy delta. The main agricultural areas are located in
river basins and in the Irrawaddy delta. The main centers of population
and economic activity are the capital, Rangoon, and Mandalay.
1.02      Because of damage suffered during World War II, internal unrest
and a decade of economic stagnation during a period of social restructur-
ing, Burma has only recently begun to expand per capita output of major
commodities and augment export earnings in real terms. Although the
Government (GOB) is committed to pursuing the reforms outlined in its
Twenty Year Plan issued in 1972, the pace and nature of economic develop-
ment must be evaluated within the context of Burma's socio-political
history, which continues to exert a strong influence on the present
government.
1.03      During the mid-1970's, GOB carried out a series of major reforms
intended to reorient policies in a more open and pragmatic fashion. These
reforms shifted investment priorities in favor of the primary producing
sectors, adjusted producer and retail prices to enhance incentives and
rationalize the price structure, and introduced work incentives and com-
mercial principles in order to improve the performance of State Economic
Enterprises (SEEs). Economic development during the post-reform period
(FY 77 to 81) contrasts favorably with the previous period of economic
stagnation. From FY77 to FY81, real GDP increased by approximately 6.5
per cent per annum, as compared with barely two per cent annually in the
period FY66 to FY76. Consequently, income per capita grew from K941
(US$S131 equivalent) in FY78 to K1147 (US$159) in FY81. This caused
additional pressures to be exerted for improvement of living conditions
and increased demands made on infrastructure facilities. A significantly
larger construction capacity to satisfy demands is, therefore, becoming
high priority.



-2-
1.04      The construction industry contributes only about two per cent to
the total GDP in Burma (Table 1), as compared with about 5 per cent in
Bangladesh and in Honduras and 8 per cent in industrialized countries.
However, the average annual growth rate of the construction industry's
contribution to GDP in Burma at constant 1970 prices has been a sig-
nificant 16.2 per cent in the post-reform period, reflecting a sharp
increase in investment in industrial building, workshops, irrigation,
infrastructure and power stations. However, the transport sector in
general, and particularly the road subsector, received low priority.
During the period FY77 to 81, an average of only K77 million (US$10.7
million) annually was spent on road construction and improvement, and
comparisons with other countries of the region are as follows:
Annual Capital Expenditure
on Roads (US$ million)        US$/Network-mile
Burma                        10.7                          830
Indonesia                   137.0                        5,900
Thailand                    156.0                        6,700
Although the annual allocation for road maintenance increased from K79
million (US$11.0 million) in FY77 to K156 million (US$21.7 million) in
FY81, it is still insufficient to ensure adequate maintenance. Under the
Second Four-Year Plan, the transport sector share was 17 per cent, which
reduced to 15 per cent during the first two years of the Third Four-Year
Plan (FY79-82). Government officials are concerned about the adequacy of
the existing infrastructure, and the desirability of increasing the share
of investment for transport, and especially road transport, in the next
Four-Year Plan is presently under discussion.
1.05      Following independence, and particularly since 1962, GOB policy
has been progressive'ly to increase its control over the construction
industry through nationalization of enterprises and allocation of much of
the work to parastatal organizations. Private sector activity is confined
to the haulage of materials, small artisan subcontracts and in the supply
of naturally occurring materials. This situation is confirmed by the fact
that while for the whole country only 11 per cent of the active labor
force is working for the public sector, the balance working for coopera-
tives and the private sector, in construction the proportion is as high as
67 per cent. Comparable values in other sectors are: agriculture - I per
cent, processing and manufacturing - 17 per cent, trade - 5 per cent,
transport and communications - 24 per cent and administration - 95 per
cent. The public sector's part of the construction industry's contribu-
tion to the GDP grew from 63 per cent in FY78 to 79 per cent in FY81.



-3-
1.06      In Burma, the construction industry contributed 25 per cent in
FY81 and an estimated 23 per cent in FY82 to gross fixed capital forma-
tion. Comparable values for other countries are 48 per cent in Honduras,
70 per cent in Bangladesh and an average of 54 per cent for other third
world countries. It, therefore, appears that the part played by the
construction industry to increase Burma's national capital stock is small
compared with other countries, and could well be increased by a planned
increase in the industry's capacity.
B. The Construction Sector
1.07      Between FY77 and FY81, the value of construction work carried
out in Burma increased from K770 million (US$S107 million) to K2,100
million (US$292 million), an almost threefold increase. However, the
value of work done by the private sector and cooperatives remained practi-
cally constant at about K320 million a year, representing a decrease from
40 per cent to 15 per cent of the total and a decrease in the physical
volume of work completed due to rising costs. Of the construction work
done by the State (about 85 per cent of the total in 1980), the Construc-
tion Corporation (CC) has over the past five years carried out a consis-
tent 75 per cent of road construction work and over 90 per cent of road
maintenance. In State building work, although the percentage of CC par-
ticipation as a whole is declining, CC's workload has increased. As a
result, other Government agencies and ministries are starting to carry out
their own building work and have set up their own repair and rehabilita-
tion facilities. These trends are detailed in Table 2.
1.08      State construction of roads outside CC is mainly done by Town-
ship People's Councils and Municipal Areas, whose minor roads program is
financed by the Ministry of Religion and Home Affairs, but carried out
with technical advice from CC staff. Township People's Councils also
construct village roads, again usually with CC technical advice, using, in
part, voluntary labor. In addition, short lengths of service roads are
constructed by other ministries in connection with forestry or irrigation
projects, but practically all roads constructed other than by CC are to
low standards and unsurfaced.
1.09      Of the approximately 20 per cent of State building construction
not carried out by CC, about half is done by the Technical Services Cor-
poration, a part of the Ministry of Industries No. 2, which was set up in
FY79 to build factories for the ministry, carry out construction work for
some SEE's and to build petrol stations. The balance of non-CC State
building work is mostly accounted for by small works associated with
specialized construction such as irrigation and power projects or railway
construction, where the main works are carried out by the specialized
agencies of Government concerned. Where building construction is done by
CC for other branches of Government, responsibility for maintenance passes
to those other branches, so that a building maintenance capability
has built up in various parts of Government, which may be employed for
minor construction activities.



-4-
1.10      Data on the extent of private building activity are estimated
from the number of building permits issued for urban areas, and for rural
areas from the quantitites of imported or centrally manufactured building
materials used. The data covers only permanent buildings, usually con-
structed by the family or by individual workers employed for the purpose.
No central records are kept on the large number of traditional buildings
erected using only local materials. Private construction firms, where
they exist, are usually family concerns with only sporadic activity and
few resources, whose growth is not fully encouraged by Government and is,
in any case, restricted by their general great difficulties in obtaining
equipment, spares and materials. Private enterprise does, however, play a
significant part in operation of road transport and in the supply of
building materials such as stone or bricks.
1.11      The technology used in construction work tends to be labor
intensive, more due to shortages of equipment and spares than because of
large labor surpluses. The country-wide unemployment rate (estimated by
GOB at about 12 per cent for urban areas and at about 7% for the whole
country) tends to be seasonal in rural areas according to the demand for
agricultural workers, and there are some regions where labor is always in
short supply. Hence, there is not the same resistance to the introduction
of mechanical equipment found in some countries of the region, and
shortages of foreign exchange, spares and repair facilities have so far
been the main reasons restricting its use. Construction standards are
often poor, due to poor quality materials, such as bricks of variable
sizes or sometimes sub-standard cement, rather than to incompetent
workers. Where high grade materials have been available, the standard of
finished work can be very high, arguing a basically skilled workforce.
Similarly, in support facilities to the industry like equipment repair and
training, the standard and quantity of outputs is commonly affected adver-
sely by the inputs that are available.
1.12      Given the domination of the construction industry by CC, it is
not surprising that cost estimates are not influenced by the same con-
siderations common in a more competitive environment. Within Government,
project cost estimates, usually prepared by CC engineers, are based on
detailed Bills of Quantities and the current Schedule of Rates. This
Schedule of Rates is prepared for each State or Division of the country
from local costs of materials and labor and assuming certain outputs from
labor and equipment, and is revised from time to time by a technical
committee of Government. The unit rates were originally built up from an
analysis of each operation, but now do not adequately take account of
changed work methods nor of real costs of equipment. Project design may
be carried out by CC or by other ministries, but in any case, the design,
drawings and specifications, as well as estimated cost, are agreed between
the client ministry and CC before the commencement of work.



-5-
1.13      Performance of works by CC for other ministries is controlled by
a simple form of contract between CC and the client ministry which covers
most of the essential elements usually found in General Conditions of
Contract. The construction period is specified, and CC is liable to pay
compensation in the event of late completion without good cause, as the
client ministry is obliged to pay extra costs if delay is due to default
on their part.  Procedures are laid down for dealing with force majeure or
cancellation of the works, and if there should be a dispute, arbitration
is according to the 1944 Arbitration Act, although in practice any dispute
is normally settled between heads of organizations. At the start of
works, there is an advance of 30 per cent of the contract amount to CC
which is repaid on completion after a Final Inspection and the issuance of
the Completion Certificate. The standard form of contract does not have
any provision for cost increases, but CC rates include Departmental Char-
ges (currently at 24.31 per cent) which allow 6.75 per cent for price
escalation. As the domestic rate for price increases is fixed by GOB at
no more than six per cent per annum, this allowance is sufficient for most
contracts.
1.14      Construction work is carried out by CC according to a variety of
specifications as may be desired by the client ministry, but UK and USA
type specifications are commonly used, although usually in old versions.
CC also has its own specifications, based on UK models used up to thirty
years ago. Any revision of specifications or work methods is inhibited by
an extreme shortage of technical literature of all sorts. Quality control
of works is rudimentary and limited to that exercised by site visits from
CC headquarters and Ministry of Construction (MOC) staff, plus inspection
by the MOC Inspectorate of Works (para 1.18).
1.15      Unlike many countries, effective operation of the construction
industry in Burma is not limited primarily by a shortage of qualified
technical staff. The main deficiencies are lack of even minimal equip-
ment, lack of spares and poor quality supplies (para 1.11) plus a manage-
ment system which, lacking reliable data on various inputs and outputs in
construction, is unable to arrive at correct management decisions, and may
also be inhibited from doing so by administrative and policy considera-
tions.
1.16      As with most centrally planned economies, GOB plans to keep the
demand for resources in step with what is available or can be made avail-
able. This is true of the construction industry also, and while it is
difficult to estimate what might be the demand for construction work given
a free market, the fact that some State construction work is being
assigned to other branches of Government (para 1.09), argues that a lack
of capacity is seen by GOB in CC. While it cannot be said with certainty
that a higher output from CC would mean a dramatic increase in the
country's pace of development, there is evidence to suggest that develop-
ment is slowed by CC's inability to undertake work when required and



-6-
always to complete on time. The low contribution that construction makes
to gross fixed capital formation in Burma (para 1.06) supports this view,
and as the principal operator in all construction works in the country, CC
is an obvious choice as the vehicle through which any move to improve
matters might be channelled.
C. The Construction Corporation
1.17      Construction work by government in Burma in modern times can be
traced back to the formation of the first Public Works Department (PWD) in
1861. PWD was then responsible for buildings, roads and irrigation, but
in 1917 the latter was placed under a separate Irrigation Department. In
1954, the work of PWD was again split between the National Housing Board
and the Department of Highways, but in 1965 under the Statutory Law for
the Formation of the Public Works and Hlousing Ministry (Order No. 74), the
activities of 22 previously separate Departments and Boards dealing with
construction work were brought together into the Public Works Corporation,
which in 1972 became the Construction Corporation. This was in effect a
change of name only, and the responsibilities of CC are still as defined
in the 1965 Order, that is:
- to advise government in all construction works;
- to lay down engineering disciplines, improve methods
and coordinate with other ministries,
- to collect and compile data and improve methods and
technology;
- to be responsible to all workers to give advice and
assistance in engineering works;
- to lay down policies, planning and procedures for
all works, including production and use of materials;
- to coordinate requirements for materials, equipment
and construction materials;
- to fix standards and specifications;
- to promote and improve technical and trade skills,
- to operate, organize and manage labor battalions;
- to construct and maintain all public buildings in Burma;



-7-
- to construct and maintain all notified main roads and
bridges in Burma; and
- to construct, maintain and operate all town water
supply, sewerage and electrical supply systems.
From this list of duties, CC is clearly intended as an organization which
will monitor and control all construction operations in the country, apart
from its direct function as the principal construction organ of Govern-
ment. The duties of CC may be, and are, delegated to other branches of
Government where appropriate and its priorities are to assist state con-
struction first, followed by cooperatives and private enterprise in that
order.
1.18      The ultimate responsibility for the control of CC lies with the
Minister of Construction, operating through the CC Board of Management, of
which the Managing Director is Chairman. The Minister is advised in
policy matters and assisted by three committees, the Construction Commit-
tee, the Strategic Road Committee and the Road Planning Committee. Tech-
nical audit of works is carried out by the Ministry of Construction's
Inspectorate of Works headed by the Chief of Inspectorate. At present,
there are four members of the Inspectorate with three Technical Advisors
who are retired senior engineers. The full strength of the Inspectorate
is 12 engineers and 12 non-technical members. Inspectorate members are
appointed by the Minister of Construction, and they normally serve a
minimum of three years in return for an honorarium, after which they may
be reappointed on a yearly basis. In 1981, approximately 50 per cent of
jobs done by CC were inspected, inspection covering aspects of management,
labor, organization, stores control and finance as well as engineering
standards. The ministerial organization is shown in Figure 1.
1.19      The head executive officer of CC is the Managing Director (MD),
who is assisted in direction of CC by sub-committees dealing with plan-
ning, research, building and fine arts, and production. Under the MD,
there are three Directors, for Planning, Works and Roads, who are also
members of the CC Board of Management. Only the Director of Works has
direct executive relationship with the CC field organization, through 14
divisional command engineers. Under the command engineers there are 18
construction units, 14 for buildings, two for roads and two for bridges,
plus 307 township engineers carrying out minor works, operation and main-
tenance. In CC headquarters, the Director of Planning is in charge of
building design and planning, and the Director of Roads has a similar
function in relation to road works. The headquarters and field organiza-
tion of CC is shown in Figure 2.



-8-
1.20      CC employed in 1981, about 2,300 engineers and 10,500 other
staff plus about 44,000 tradesmen and technicians of various types (Table
3). The category of engineer includes Grades I through IV, and the lower
grades are non graduate and act more as supervisors than as engineers The
number of graduate technical staff in CC (civil, electrical and mechanical
engineers, architects and quantity surveyors) is about 460, of which about
340 are civil engineers. The annual expenditure of CC in FY82 is
estimated to be K985 million (Table 4), giving an expenditure per graduate
technical employee of about K2.14 million, or say US$300,000, which is
about 30 per cent below what would be a reasonable work load, even allow-
ing for low controlled prices in Burma. The ratio of administrative to
technical staff in CC, about 4.5 to 1, is higher than usual, especially
when technical staff say that they are unable to carry out more work due
to the amount of administrative duties they are expected to perform.
Quite apart from the fact that they have inadequate resources to carry out
their work (para 1.23), a number of headquarters staff appear to be over-
loaded and unable to give the necessary attention to details of planning
and supervision, especially in road works. The ratio between headquarters
and field technical staff (about 1:2.6 from Table 3) is low and should
either be increased or more of the planning function delegated to field
staff at command engineer level and below. Centralization of control,
coupled with inadequate resources in headquarters and an almost complete
absence of feedback on unit costs and labor or equipment outputs make
detailed works planning and effective site management even more difficult
to achieve than consideration of uncertain equipment, spares and materials
supplies would suggest.
1.21      CC training organization is generally adequate.  There is a
Central Training Committee under the Deputy Minister of Construction which
through the Board of Studies assesses training needs for CC, appraises all
courses and supervises agreed training activities which are carried out by
the Central Training Center (Thuwunna) and its two Branch Centers (Insein
and Mandalay). Except for mechanical training programs which are carried
out at Insein and Mandalay, all other programs are implemented at
Thuwunna. The day-to-day activities of training in CC is under the con-
trol of the head of the Labor and Training Section established in early
1966. During the period 1980-1981, 46 courses, lasting from three weeks
to four months, were run at the three centers for a total of some 1,900
staff. This basic training has been supplemented by field operations
under the supervision of line staff. Achievements have been limited
mainly because of shortage of training equipment and materials, the inade-
quacy of some syllabi (possibly due to the difficulties in obtaining
relevant technical publications) and excessively large size classes. In
addition, on-site training has been conducted recently by Australian and
Japanese teams on road and bridge work respectively; some CC staff are at
present working with Japanese teams on a range of major building work.
Among graduate CC staff, most obtained their first degree in Burma, but a



-9-
significant number have continued studies overseas, and many have had the
opportunity of working with foreign experts on road or building works or
with consultants. Funds have been included under the project to
strengthen CC training activities (paras 2.12, 2.13).
1.22      The mechanical section of CC is responsible for the maintenance
of all CC vehicles and equipment and also undertakes the manufacture of
some small items, principally concrete mixers. Maintenance is carried out
at two base workshops, one in Rangoon and one in Mandalay, for major
repairs and overhauls, and by two mechanical equipment companies, also
based one at Rangoon and one at Mandalay, for first and second line main-
tenance plus care and storage of equipment. Although the organization on
paper appears to be capable of undertaking effective maintenance of the
fleet, in practice it has not been able to do so due to the composition of
the fleet, which is old and of mixed origins, and the extreme difficulties
of obtaining spares. The two base workshops, with their associated spares
stores, have old, although often still serviceable, equipment which
reduces the quality and quantity of output, and have suffered from a
shortage of materials as well as spares. Overall, 87 per cent of major
items in the fleet are more than ten years old, and in December 1981, a
survey showed fleet availability to be 36 per cent, with 51 per cent
considered unserviceable and 13 per cent undergoing repairs. Completion
of repairs can be delayed for months or even years by unavailability of
spares for the older machines. When machines are available, the
engineer's decision on whether to use mechanical equipment or hand labor
is dictated by the perceived cost of employing machines as against the
cost of labor. Although machines are charged out to works, the hire
charges are not at all representative of the true cost, being based on the
historic machine cost rather than the replacement cost, and on an
uneconomically long machine life, while the allowance for repairs and
maintenance is far too low. The charges levied on the majority of the
fleet cover about half the cost of maintenance only, leaving no contribu-
tion towards replacement costs. This, together with the long procedures
for writing off and replacing obsolete equipment items, which can take two
years for write off and seven or eight years for replacements to arrive,
has acted as a powerful disincentive to renewal of the fleet at the time
when it would have been economical to do so.
1.23      Major projects currently under execution by CC are shown in
Table 5. CC construction projects are proposed by ministries of GOB,
corporations or people's councils, and are investigated technically by CC
staff but not routinely subjected to any economic evaluation. The
clients' reports on projects are then submitted to the Works Coordination
Committee, (sub-Cabinet committee chaired by the Minister of Construction)
for consideration, and then, if approved, to the Ministry of Planning and
Finance (MPF) for inclusion in the capital works program. Following
approval by MPF, projects go to the Economic Coordination Committee, which
is a sub-Cabinet committee chaired by the Prime Minister, for approval



-10-
before being included in the appropriate development plan. Guidelines for
State Economic Planning mention consideration of economic criteria, and a
Highway Planning Unit has been set up in CC headquarters to take account
of this in road and bridge works, but so far the unit has been principally
engaged in collecting basic data to be used in evaluation. Project plan-
ning and preparation within CC is affected by shortages of reference
books, drawing office equipment, drawing instruments, reproduction equip-
ment, space and such items as portable calculators, while field work is
often held up by the lack of survey equipment. Materials testing during
design is less than it should be, often due to difficulties over transport
of staff and samples between the site and laboratory, and once construc-
tion is in progress, there is usually little quality control testing,
although the recent delivery of a range of materials and laboratory equip-
ment under Japanese aid should improve matters. Negotiations are nearing
completion for a UNDP funded Road Research and Development Project which
aims to improve the planning and materials testing abilities of CC by
providing technical assistance, equipment and other resources to CC head-
quarters.
1.24      The quality of work carried out by CC varies.  On prestige
projects or where foreign aid supplies new equipment and high quality
materials, the standard of finished work is as good as may be found
anywhere. More generally, however, the combination of unreliable equip-
ment and substandard materials results in a poor standard and low outputs.
For example, one road construction unit, which is equipment intensive and
is operating with Australian assistance under the Colombo Plan, is produc-
ing surfaced roads on the West bank of the Irrawaddy River which are of
very high standard and show no sign of any distress after two to three
years under traffic. The other unit, which is operating near Mandalay, is
labor intensive and completes only about eight miles of road rehabilita-
tion a year, but the finished product is very variable in quality and
failure takes place after a year or two at the rate of about ten per cent
annually. In the latter case, the quality of stone supplied is very
variable and often quite unsatisfactory, there is no equipment on site to
control the temperature of bitumen or its rate of application, and compac-
tion equipment is unreliable and not the correct type for some operations.
Control of labor is difficult, as it is unskilled on arrival at the site,
and cannot be relied upon to stay once agricultural work has to be done
locally. Motivation of labor is not easy with the low rate of pay fixed
by Government (minimum wage is K 6.50 per day), and CC has considered
incentive payments to improve outputs and reliability of labor. Although
agreement has been given by GOB to an overall bonus based inversely on
basic pay, award of individual incentive payments to reward good work
record has not yet been agreed.
1.25      Until 1976 when the guidelines for operating SEEs were intro-
duced, CC operated on the lines of a normal PWD, with all its activities
funded directly from the GOB consolidated fund. Since 1976, however, CC



-1 1-
has been allowed a degree of financial autonomy to formulate its own
budget, subject to GOB approval, and operate on semi-commercial lines as
the sole executing agency for, and under the general direction of, MOC.
CC is, therefore, financially responsible and accountable for all its
operations, including cash bonuses to staff and normal capital expendi-
tures which can be financed either through operating income or by borrow-
ing from local banks. If CC makes a surplus on its operations, 25 per
cent is paid to GOB consolidated fund and the balance is distributed to CC
staff as a bonus according to set rules.
1.26      No reliable and consistent financial information is available on
CC operations before FY78. The statement of actual income and expenditure
for FY78 through FY80 and CC's estimated figures for FY81 and 82 (Table 6)
show that the growth of CC expenditures have generally kept in step with
growth of its revenues, which is explained by the fact that the prices of
most inputs used by CC in their work are fixed by GOB, and CC can adjust
its rates with each new project in accord with input cost changes. For
the three-year period beginning in FY78, CC's operating ratios averaged
about 91 per cent, but estimates for the next two years forecast this to
increase. CC attributes this to an expected increase in the cost of its
non revenue earning activities, such as maintenance of its own buildings
and rehabilitation of old equipment. Provision of new equipment, giving
increased productivity, and improved cost accounting could be expected to
make an improvement in the operating ratio. Overall, CC has maintained a
profitable position throughout FY78 to 80. Its income before contribution
to GOB varied between 7.7 and 9.3 per cent of total revenue, but CC
expects this to reduce in FY81-82 before a later improvement.
1.27      The balance sheets of CC for the period FY78-80 (Table 7) show
that CC has maintained a sound financial position. By March 1980, CC's
cash holdings amounted to K169.7 million (US$23.6 million), most of which
is due to the fact that increasing work program increased the advance
payments due at commencement (para 1.13). This high liquidity has reduced
the effect of deterioration in CC's collection period, which is now just
over six months. CC recognizes this is not a healthy position and has
formulated guidelines for its clients limiting the collection period to
not more than 45 days.
1.28      With the exception of bank loans, all long term capital of CC
can be considered as equity, which leaves the corporation with a generally
strong capitalization. There is also an unusual aspect of CC operations
which its financial statements do not reveal. A substantial part of the
equipment and vehicle fleet used by CC for MOC work does not appear on its
balance sheet because ownership rests with MOC. CC uses this part of the
fleet and pays its operating and repair expenses, which enables CC to use
assets whose depreciation is not charged in its accounts.



-12-
1.29      Although the future financial strength of CC is not in any
doubt, it is not possible to make any meaningful projections now, since
the work of CC is for various client ministries, including MOC, whose
future work program will depend on contents of the Fourth Four-Year Plan,
which has not yet been released. However, judging from the viewpoint of
CC's construction capacity now and as it is likely to be in the near
future, and in view of probable GOB budget allocations to various poten-
tial CC clients for both construction and maintenance, it seems very
likely that demands on CC for work will continue to increase.



-13-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Background
2.01      Following the policy reforms of the mid-1970's (para 1.03), GOB
realized that one possible constraint on development would be the limited
capacity of the construction industry, and principally of CC. A prelimi-
nary IDA mission went to Burma in January 1981, followed by discussions
between GOB and IDA in May 1981 and again in September 1981, when the
scope and main features were agreed for a project designed to be a first
phase in the improvement of both quantity and quality of construction work
in the country. Since the project is seen as only a first phase, it was
decided, in order to simplify and accelerate project preparation, to
concentrate on the road making activities of CC and to operate through
only a part of the organization, without, at this stage, attempting to
change overall GOB or CC policy. This strategy of limited objectives is
considered to have good chances of showing positive results.
2.02      Appraisal of the project took place in November/December 1981,
when general agreement was reached on details of the project work program,
the scale of equipment and other resources to be provided, and the amount
of technical assistance required. In putting together the project work
program, use was made of a study carried out in 1976-77 by Australian
consultants, Vallentine, Laurie and Davies (VLD) (see Annex 3), financed
by the UNDP Burma Umbrella Project, and a project report produced by CC.
B. Objectives
2.03      The proposed project would be a first phase aimed at strengthen-
ing and enlarging the capacity of the Burmese construction industry.
Since CC, operating under MOC but on commercial lines, undertakes about 75
per cent of all state construction work, apart from specialized work such
as irrigation, power construction, railways and mining, the project will
focus on CC as the largest operator in the industry and will:
(a)   establish three working units, two in road rehabilitation and
one in road maintenance, with the necessary equipment, vehicles
and immediate workshop facilities; and
(b)   provide technical assistance to improve the work planning and
management abilities of CC within these units.
Improvement of work planning and management will be brought about by
introducing or strengthening the operations of costing and cost control,
cost analysis and quality control in the three units run under the
project.



-14-
2.04      GOB supports the objectives of the project and agrees that as a
longer term objective, it will be desirable to improve the whole function
of CC to the extent that it can operate competitively with international
contractors.
C. Description
2.05      The project consists of:
(a)   provision of vehicles and mechanical equipment for two
rehabilitation and one maintenance units, with spares;
(b)   provision of workshop equipment and tools to carry out
field maintenance and repairs and to strengthen the
capacity of base workshops to repair project equipment;
(c)   supply of survey, design and office equipment required
for the units; and
(c)   technical assistance to establish and assist with the
operation of the units, to include the introduction of
costing, cost control and cost analysis of works, and
the improvement of quality control and work planning.
The work program has been selected from amongst routes which CC would, in
any case, rehabilitate or continue to maintain using its own resources,
although the rate of rehabilitation would be slower than under the project
and the finished product after either rehabilitation or maintenance, to
lower standards. It is planned that rehabilitation will be completed at
the rate of about 25 miles per unit per year, as compared with the present
output from the labor intensive unit between Mandalay and Meiktila of
about eight miles per year. Furthermore, the present rate of pavement
failure (about 10 per cent of the paved area per year) is expected to be
reduced to two per cent per annum or less with better control of materials
and work methods. The road maintenance unit will operate over a compact
network of roads South of Mandalay in order to complete pavement repairs
and then reseal the whole 330 miles during the project period, as compared
with the negligible amount of resealing that is done at present. Since a
primary objective of setting up the units is to introduce improved methods
of operation, management, equipment maintenance and cost control, and to
train CC staff in such improved methods, the units should function under
the project for at least three years to allow the methods to be intro-
duced, adapted as necessary after use and then used for training purposes.
In the case of both rehabilitation and maintenance works, the number of
units proposed (two for rehabilitation and one for maintenance) allow for
a significant work program to be completed within a three-year program
with units which are an economic size and in keeping with the general



-15-
scale of other operations. The initial year of the project will be used
in procurement of equipment and in setting up the units to become func-
tional.
D. The Work Program
2.06      Rehabilitation is planned on two routes as follows:
(a)   Payagyi - Toungoo Road (115 miles) is a part of the main route
connecting Rangoon and Mandalay, and now carries a traffic flow
of about 800 vehicles per day (vpd), with over 85 per cent heavy
vehicles. Widening of the old single lane carriageway is in
progress, and by mid-1982, about half the road will have been
widened to 16'0", the balance being still 12'0" wide. After
repair of failed areas of the existing road, it is proposed to
widen the whole length to 20'0", provide extra base over the
existing road where necessary and then to lay 3" penetration
macadam and a single seal dressing over the entire width of
carriageway. Allowance is made for widening the road embankment
to give 8'0" shoulders on either side, and bridges and culverts
will be widened, repaired or replaced as necessary. Estimated
cost is K124 million (US$17.2 million), or K1,080,000
(US$ 150,000) per mile, excluding costs of equipment deprecia-
tion. The type of work proposed is illustrated in Figure 3, and
details of the cost estimate are given in Table 8.
(b)   Payagyi - Sittang (26 miles) is the principal land connection
between the Karen and Mon states in the South and Rangoon. At
present, communications are mainly by train and river, but with
the completion of two major bridges at Bilin and East of Thaton,
overland traffic is expected to increase significantly. Present
traffic on the road is about 700 vpd, with about 80 per cent
heavy vehicles. The road is 12'0" wide throughout with a number
of failed areas and earth shoulders in very bad condition. It
is proposed to repair failed areas and build up 8' wide
shoulders with selected materials suitable to take passing
traffic. The present road will be overlaid with 3" of penetra-
tion macadam, increased as required by pavement condition, and
provided with a single seal dressing, but widening is not
proposed. Estimated cost is K16.4 million (US$2.3 million) or
about K630,000 (US$88,000) per mile, excluding the costs of
equipment depreciation. The type of work proposed is
illustrated in Figure 3 and details of the cost estimates are
given in Table 9.



-16-
By selecting routes for rehabilitation which are contiguous, as well as
fully economically viable, control of the works will be simplified. It is
intended that one unit will work between Payagyi and Sittang for about one
year before moving over to the Payagyi-Toungoo road, where the second unit
will work throughout the project.
2.07      The roads for intensified maintenance are contained within the
area bounded by Myingyan, Mandalay, Yewun, Meiktila and Kyaukpadaung (Map
IBRD 16279), where about 330 miles of road, mostly surfaced over 12'0"
width and with narrow or practically non-existent shoulders, has
deteriorated or failed because CC has been unable to carry out periodic
maintenance as and when it should have been done. As a result, about ten
per cent of the road has failed and developed potholes, which will have to
be repaired before single surface dressing is applied. Routine main-
tenance of these roads will continue under township engineers, but repair
of failed areas and surface dressing, with shoulder improvement, will be
done by the maintenance unit set up under the project. It is planned to
complete delayed periodic maintenance within the area selected, at the
rate of about 110 miles per year over three years. Present traffic
averages about 600 vpd, 65 per cent heavy vehicles. The estimated cost of
maintenance work is shown in Table 10. The work program and unit costs
have been discussed with CC and details of the associated work program,
work methods, specifications and cost estimates have been agreed.
E. Equipment
2.08      Equipment to be used in the execution of the work program, which
includes an additional 15 per cent for spares, is shown in Table 11. The
spares allowance is expected to cover requirements for new equipment and
also for any provided by GOB from the present CC fleet. Project equipment
includes sufficient machines for aggregate production for project work,
since the aggregates now available are often not satisfactory for road-
works due to inferior material and poor grading. It is intended to retain
equipment engaged on the project as a separate fleet, apart from the
remainder of CC equipment, so that records of operating and repair costs,
with estimates of depreciation, can be kept over several years to give
better assessments of outputs and real equipment user costs than now
exist.
2.09      Workshop equipment for the project (Table 12) is intended to
supplement what already exists in base workshops and in the mechanical
equipment companies so that repairs and maintenance of project equipment
and vehicles can be done effectively. Maintenance of the maintenance unit
equipment will be done using the existing organization based at Mandalay,
but a light field workshop is planned in the Payagyi area to service the
more concentrated fleet operating in the two rehabilitation units. Soils
and materials testing equipment is proposed to allow field testing and
quality control on site, and the survey and design office equipment will



-17-
allow the units to operate independently of CC headquarters for survey,
design and setting out of works. CC headquarters lack resources even to
service their present work program for materials testing, survey and
design, and would be unable to undertake extra work without extra resour-
ces, which it is considered preferable to provide within the working units
themselves (para 1.20). Technical literature in the form of standard
specifications and codes of practice, operational handbooks and working
manuals are to be provided to assist in the revision and modernizing of
specifications and work methods in the units set up under the project and
eventually in CC generally.
2.10      A principal tool to improve work planning and management will be
the use of costing, cost control and cost analysis within the units (para
2.21). In order that data can be collated and analyzed quickly, and be
available where it is needed, small data processors are to be provided
suitable for use in the field even by staff inexperienced in using them.
Apart from their use in costing and cost analysis, this facility will be
used for spares and stock control and for highway design and quantities
estimation within the units, on an experimental basis prior to possible
use of the same methods throughout CC. The machines must be robust and
simple to use, and it is intended to provide technical assistance to train
CC staff in use of data processors as a practical management tool (para
2.15). If the proposed UNDP funded Road Research project (para 1.23) is
finalized during early 1982, it will be possible to harmonize this aspect
of the IDA project with the UNDP proposal to introduce similar equipment
into CC headquarters, and the UNDP funded technical assistance in CC
headquarters may allow some reduction in technical assistance for the IDA
project.
2.11      The amount and type of equipment to be provided under the
project has been discussed and agreed with CC, and GOB has agreed that the
equipment to be provided is suitable for the associated work program
proposed and will not, without prior agreement from IDA, be used other
than for the agreed work program. The mechanical equipment supplied under
the project and to be used by the three units, will be procured by MOC
with the technical advice of CC, and its ownership will remain with MOC.
It will be used by CC in carrying out work for MOC, and CC will be respon-
sible for its operating and maintenance costs, which it will recover by
charges made to MOC, but CC will not pay towards the capital cost of the
equipment. This arrangement accords with present MOC policy for CC equip-
ment used in MOC work (para 1.28) and will avoid the requirement for
onlending from MOC to CC, with consequent transfer payments in the shape
of interest payments from CC to MOC and higher work charges from CC to
MOC. In cost analysis, however, full account will be taken of the capital
costs and depreciation of equipment once sufficient data has been accumu-
lated to make this possible.



-18-
F. Training
2.12      CC's proposed four-year training program (1983-1986) would
strengthen and expand ongoing training activities and would be especially
addressed to road foremen, equipment operators, drivers, mechanics and
storekeepers. The program includes the recruitment of a training
specialist, the purchase of training equipment and materials, the improve-
ment of certain syllabi and courses, and the training abroad (fellowships)
of selected technical personnel. The responsibility of the training
specialist would primarily be: (i) reviewing and strengthening existing
courses/syllabi, especially those covering road construction and main-
tenance, to enable engineers, supervisors and foremen to be exposed to
current technology and appropriate management systems; (ii) identifying
additional training requirements; and (iii) assisting CC in drawing up an
agreed training program especially geared to road and equipment main-
tenance personnel. Theoretical training would be conducted at the three
training centers (Thuwunna, Insein and Mandalay), while practical training
would be carried out mostly in the field under the supervision of line
staff. Field personnel would thus be trained under actual working condi-
tions. Training of mechanics would be carried out principally at Insein
and Mandalay. In addition to courses on preventive maintenance of equip-
ment, mechanical personnel would be required to repair broken-down equip-
ment, thus increasing CC's equipment overhaul capability. CC would be
required to provide adequate spare parts for the training of mechanics
throughout the duration of the program. Equipment manufacturers and
suppliers will be expected to provide fully qualified instructors, for an
agreed period, to familiarize CC mechanical personnel on new equipment.
Short seminars on different topics related to maintenance management,
accounting and administration would be conducted periodically for middle
and high level staff by the technical assistance team and CC senior staff,
while some middle level CC staff will receive training overseas in design
and management of the highway system (Figure 4). CC has provided general
details of their proposed training program for 1983 through 1986, and
agreement has been reached on the training aids to be provided under the
project.
2.13      Apart from training aids (Table 12), a portion of the equipment
and technical assistance is earmarked for training purposes, while
operators' outputs have been estimated at a low level to allow for the
needs of training (para 2.19). The UNDP funded Road Research and Develop-
ment Project under discussion between GOB and UNDP (para 1.23) would,
inter alia, provide similar technical assistance for training to the IDA
project, although concentrated in CC headquarters. Assurances have been
received from GOB that once agreement is reached with UNDP, expected
during 1982, the details of technical assistance to be provided under the
two projects will be reviewed to ensure that the objectives of the respec-
tive projects are met and there is no overlapping.



-19-
G. Technical Assistance
2.14      The technical assistance proposed for the project (141 man
months) is not required primarily to upgrade the technical competence of
CC staff, which is generally adequate, but rather to improve performance
in the areas of site and contract planning, management and organization,
cost accounting and cost control and quality control. It will also carry
out field research into possible improvements to work methods and
specifications, and into the appropriate labor/equipment mix on works of
this nature in Burma. The work being done at the present time by the
existing CC unit operating near Mandalay will be taken as a basis to
support recommendations on labor/equipment appropriate mix. These are
all activities which will directly benefit the units to be formed under
the project and their work outputs but which can then be applied to the
other activities of CC and, through CC's role as monitor of all construc-
tion work in Burma (para 1.17), to other state and private sector con-
struction work.
2.15      The team proposed for technical assistance is as follows, and
details of timings are given in Figure 4:
(1)   The Team Leader, who will be an experienced civil engineer used
to the planning and organization of construction contracts under
conditions similar to those in Burma, will, apart from coor-
dinating the activities of the team, concentrate upon aspects
of contract management, site organization and introduction of
improved work methods;
(2)   Construction Engineer (Quality Control and Research) will have
the responsibility to improve outputs and work standards and to
reduce failure rates by the better use of available materials
and equipment;
(3)   Construction Engineer (Costing and Cost Control) will analyze
unit operational costs as a means towards improved efficiency
of works, in order to arrive at realistic costs for estimating
and budget preparation, and to produce correct equipment operat-
ing costs to allow correct decisions to be made on employment of
equipment;
(4)   Plant Operation Specialist will be an experienced mechanical
engineer, or civil engineer with extensive experience in use
and care of construction equipment, who will advise on the
correct use, care and maintenance of plant, vehicles and equip-
ment, including the operation of workshops, spares procedures
and inventory control;



-20-
(5)   Data Processing Specialist will produce programs suitable for
field use by CC staff within units for cost accounting, cost
control, cost analysis, plant and equipment records, spares
stock control, highway design and work planning and highway
quantities and train CC staff in their use;
(6)   Training Specialist, who will review existing construction
industry training programs and facilities in CC and elsewhere
in order to suggest improvement and, where practicable, assist
with implementation.
The estimated cost of technical assistance, including all allowances and
external travel, is US$1,386,000 plus a local cost of K486,000
(US$1,453,500 total equivalent) for 135 man months, or about US$10,800 per
man month. Draft Terms of Reference for the technical assistance are
given in Annex 1. Use of the IDA Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was
suggested to GOB as a possible means of speeding project implementation,
but GOB felt much of the work proposed to be done under PPF could be
carried out by their own staff and arrangements have been made to review
their work. Agreement has been reached with GOB on the terms and condi-
tions under which technical assistance will be provided, and that not
later than December 31, 1982, GOB will enter into a contract, satisfactory
to IDA, for the employment of consultants to provide the agreed technical
assistance.
H. Cost Estimates
2.16      The total cost of the project is estimated as US$29.8 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$20 million equivalent
(67 per cent) and including a total for taxes and duties of US$9 million
equivalent. Associated with the project is a work program of road
rehabilitation and maintenance, estimated to cost K185.9 million (US$25.8
million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of K50 million (US$7
million equivalent) for bitumen, which GOB plans to import under its
normal program. This work program would be carried out by GOB in any
case, but spread over the period 1982-1992 instead of 1982-1987 under the
project. Hence, although the work program will involve no change in total
costs to GOB, apart from the effects of inflation, there will be the
requirement to produce an extra K90 million approximately (US$12.5 million
equivalent) over the next four years, which will be offset by correspond-
ing reductions thereafter. Details of IDA project costs are given in
Table 13, and details of the associated work program costs, to be borne by
GOB, are given in Tables 8, 9 and 10. IDA project costs are summarized as
follows:



-21-
Item              --- Kyats (millions)---    ---  US$ (millions) ---
Foreign Local Tax   Total  Foreign Local  Tax  Total
I. Equipment
a) Rehabilitation
Units              71.3   2.2  35.6  109.1    9.90   0.30  4.95  15.15
b) Maintenance
Unit               32.2   0.9  15.2   48.3    4.47   0.13  2.11   6.71
c) Workshops and
Miscellaneous       2.5   0.4   1.8    4.7    0.35   0.06  0.24   0.65
Subtotal:        106.0   3.5  52.6  162.1   14.72   0.49  7.30  22.51
II. Technical Assistance 10.5   1.2    -    11.7    1.45   0.17   -           1.62
Total I and II       116.5   4.7  52.6  173.8   16.17   0.66  7.30  24.13
Contingencies
a) Physical             5.8   0.3   2.6    8.7    0.81   0.03  0.37   1.21
b) Provision for
Price Increases  21.7   0.7   9.4   31.8    3.02   0.10  1.30   4.42
Total:               114.0   5.7  64.6  214.3   20.00   0.79  8.97  29.76
2.17      A quantity contingency of 5 per cent has been allowed on both
equipment and technical assistance. For price increases, the following
contingencies have been allowed:
Local Costs        Foreign Costs and Tax
FY82-83             6%                      8.5%
FY84-86             6%                      7.5%
FY87                6%                      6.0%
Estimates for equipment, vehicles, workshop equipment and tools, and
technical assistance are based on 1982 prices or 1981 prices updated to
1982. Cost of the associated work program to be borne by GOB (Tables 8, 9
and 10) has been estimated using the latest CC Schedule of Rates for
materials, labor and equipment operating costs, but not including equip-
ment hire charges. The cost estimates for the project, and for the work
to be undertaken by CC using GOB finance have been discussed and agreed
with GOB.



-22-
I. Execution of the Project
2.18      Although the project beneficiary will be MOC, implementation of
the project will be the responsibility of CC, assisted by the technical
assistance team. The three units being set up will be under the nominal
jurisdiction of the command engineers within whose areas they operate, but
they will operate separately from the command engineer's organization,
apart from use of the base workshops and general staff administration
facilities. Each of the project units will be under the direction of an
Executive Engineer (Engineer Grade II), with Assistant Engineers (Engineer
Grade III) taking charge of various aspects of the work and Sub-Assistant
Engineers (Engineer Grade IV) acting as supervisors in direct control of
work operations on site. Each unit will have its own mechanical engineer-
ing staff, and its own accounts section with an accounts superintendent in
charge. The organization of a typical unit is shown in Figure 5. General
control of project execution and liaison with IDA will be through a
Project Cell to be set up in CC headquarters.
2.19      It is expected that delivery of the equipment for units will
start towards the end of 1983, allowing main work to commence in the
1983/84 construction season, with completion in 1986/87. One rehabilita-
tion unit will work on the Payagyi-Sittang road for the first year before
moving to join the second unit on the Payagyi-Toungoo road in the second
year. Thus, at the end of the first year, the Payagyi-Sittang road is
expected to be completed, with about 25 miles of the Payagyi-Toungoo road.
By the end of the second year, a further 50 miles of Payagyi-Toungoo road
will be completed and the work will be finished in the third year. Work
by the maintenance unit will commence during the 1983/84 construction
season and is planned to continue throughout the next three years. In
estimating outputs and equipment requirements, it has been assumed that
due to the nature of the terrain and the monsoon season, rehabilitation
work will be limited to seven months a year of 20 working days per month,
although production of stone will continue throughout the monsoon. Road
maintenance will also take place for seven months per year, apart from
work on shoulders and berms, which could continue for about eight months.
To allow for changing operators, training periods and unskilled operators,
an average operator efficiency of only 40 per cent has been assumed, with
80 per cent availability on new equipment and 70 per cent utilization.
The majority of CC operators and drivers, with some other staff, are not
on the permanent establishment and most of the casual labor often return
to agricultural work during the monsoon season. CC staff in the units
will be involved in training and equipment maintenance when field work is
not possible due to weather, and supervisory staff will work on planning
and cost analysis. Agreement has been reached with GOB that the necessary
staff and other facilities will be made available for the efficient execu-
tion of the project. Project implementation is illustrated in Figure 6.



-23-
2.20      Detailed design for pavement strengthening of the
Payagyi-Toungoo road has been completed, and similar work for the
Payagyi-Sittang road is expected to be completed before August 1982.
Assurances have been given that design work will be completed before the
credit becomes effective. Details of the work program and of project
execution have been discussed and agreed with GOB. It has been agreed
(i) that by October 1, 1982, an agreement or order, satisfactory to IDA,
shall be in force between MOC and CC for the carrying out of the
associated work program; and (ii) that by October 1, 1982, GOB shall
establish and thereafter maintain and operate until completion of the
project, a Project Cell with staff, powers and responsibilities satisfac-
tory to IDA.
J. Project Monitoring and Reporting
2.21      The collection and analysis of data on outputs, work progress
and work costs as an aid to improved management of works is an important
objective of the project (para 2.03). It is planned within the project to
create the capability for CC to:
(a)   monitor equipment and labor outputs for a range of common opera-
tions;
(b)   use materials testing of inputs and quality control of outputs
as a means to achieve consistent work standards;
(c)   introduce works costing and cost control in order to improve
decision making on the most appropriate work methods to be used;
and
(d)   employ cost analysis as an aid to better forecasting of expendi-
tures.
Initially, these tasks will be undertaken principally by members of the
technical assistance team, working with CC staff, but it is intended to
set up the functions of monitoring costs and quality control to become a
regular part of the units' operations as soon as possible, using
facilities to be provided under the project (paras 2.09 and 2.10). During
the course of works, the assumptions made during pavement design must be
rechecked by pavement condition surveys before construction commences,
since lack of past pavement and traffic histories has made reliable
forecasting of pavement deterioration difficult.
2.22      Under the GOB Codes for accounts and audit, which have been
reviewed and found to be satisfactory, CC is required to maintain proper
accounts and records of its financial transactions and to make them avail-
able for audit by the GOB Auditor General at least once a year. CC
accounts and the financial statement, with the audit report of the Auditor



-24-
General, are submitted annually to the Public Accounts Committee of par-
liament for review and final approval. CC will maintain separate accounts
for the three units to be set up under this project, and their associated
activities, and will submit to IDA for review audited project accounts,
with the Auditors' report, within six months from the end of each finan-
cial year. GOB will also submit a copy of CC's audited annual income and
expenditure statement and a balance sheet of its entire operation, with
the Auditors' report, within nine months of the end of each financial
year.
2.23      At the close of each six-month period, dating from the time of
credit effectiveness, GOB will submit a progress report on the project,
including a report on expenditures, and detailing the work done under the
project, with actual and estimated progress achieved. The report will
highlight causes for delay, if any, with measures proposed to overcome
them, and will anticipate any changes that may be required in the project
completion date, the credit closing date or the estimated project cost.
Details will be given of plant, vehicles and equipment in use by the
units, with data on average availability and utilization of the major
items of equipment. Two copies of the report will be forwarded to IDA,
Washington within six weeks of the end of each six-monthly period.
2.24      Within six months of the completion of the project, GOB will
submit to IDA a Project Completion Report on the execution and initial
results of the project, its costs and benefits derived or expected to be
derived from it, an assessment of the performance under the project by GOB
and IDA of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement, the
accomplishment of the objectives of the Credit, and the performance of the
technical assistance team. Details of these monitoring and reporting
requirements have been discussed and agreed.
K. Procurement
2.25      Equipment for the project will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding with a 15 per cent preference, or the
import tariff, whichever is the less, allowed on locally manufactured
items of equipment in accordance with the IDA "Guidelines for Procure-
ment." IDA would review all contracts and related documentation for goods
estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more before any award is made.
Spares or materials estimated to cost less than US$12,500 up to a total of
US$250,000, may be procured locally in accordance with GOB procedures
acceptable to IDA. Selection of consultants for technical assistance will
be carried out in accordance with the IDA "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants." Discussions have been held with GOB on procedures for
importation of equipment and spares for the project, and for the supply
of the necessary materials for the GOB financed work associated with the
project, and appropriate assurances received that in neither case will
there be any undue delays in delivery to the site.



-25-
L. Financing and Disbursements
2.26      The proposed credit of US$20 million will finance about 67 per
cent of the project costs, that is, all foreign costs. The remaining
local costs and taxes, amounting to about US$9.76 million equivalent, will
be met by GOB, together with all the costs of the associated work program,
estimated to cost US$25.8 million equivalent. GOB has agreed that there
will be an adequate and timely release of funds for the project and the
associated work in accordance with the implementation schedule in order to
achieve successful completion of the project, and that any increase in the
cost of the project, foreign or local, will be met by GOB. Disbursements
from the proceeds of the credit, which will be fully documented, will be
made on the following basis:
(a)   100 per cent of foreign expenditures or ex-factory expenditure
for equipment, tools, spare parts and materials for workshops
or 65% of local procurement costs;
(b)   100 per cent of foreign expenditures or ex-factory expenditure
for testing and survey equipment, design or office equipment
and office materials, or 65% of local procurement costs; and
(c)   100 per cent of foreign expenditure for technical assistance
and training.
Based on the implementation of works outlined in para 2.19, a Schedule of
Estimated Disbursements (Table 14) has been prepared. The rate of disbur-
sements may be affected principally by delays in ordering equipment or by
unusually long delivery periods, and to a minor degree by changes in the
technical assistance program. Because of the unusual pattern of disburse-
ments proposed, historic disbursement data has not been used in prepara-
tion of the Disbursements Schedule for this project.



-26-
III. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.01      It has been Bank policy for some time to encourage and foster
the development of local capabilities to conceive, design and carry out
development work on a sound basis. The main benefit expected of the
proposed project is entirely in line with this policy, consisting of
further developing the local capability of the construction industry, to
enable it to efficiently undertake the increasing volume of development
work resulting from the sustained and high economic growth achieved during
the last years in Burma (see para 1.03). The immediate benefit will be
the strengthening of certain road units of CC, which will contribute at a
later stage to an improvement of the overall production of CC, once the
results of the project are expanded, as expected, to the whole organiza-
tion.
3.02      In the context of Burma and to better monitor the results of the
project, it is advantageous to apply the various CC strengthening -
oriented procedures to be evaluated during the execution of the project,
to some useful purpose, namely the work program detailed in paras
2.06-2.07, which should be considered a vehicle to achieve the main
project benefits. Therefore, a secondary benefit of the project is the
improvement in the condition of the work program roads as a result of the
rehabilitation and maintenance works carried out during project execution.
3.03      Regarding project beneficiaries, it is difficult to single out
specific groups which would exclusively benefit from the project, because
the impact will deeply affect many aspects and areas of the whole Burmese
society. Through achieving the ability of improving the quality, reducing
costs and increasing the productivity of road rehabilitation and main-
tenance works, the entire society benefits, and therefore it should be
considered as the beneficiary of the project.
B. Economic Evaluation of the Project
3.04      Since 1976 important changes in the guidelines for operating
SEEs have been introduced with the purpose of operating them on commercial
lines (para 1.25). Consequently, CC has undergone substantial reorganiza-
tions with the final objective of becoming a corporation run on a commer-
cial basis. The proposed project will help to increase the output and
quality of the road rehabilitation and maintenance production of CC.
Under the present technology, and with the sole exception of the work
carried out under Australian assistance, the road rehabilitation and



-27-
maintenance works are carried out with labor intensive techniques and the
quality of this type of work is, in practice, inferior to that proposed
under the project (para 1.24). Also, the annual production under present
technology is less than that which could be produced with the project
(para 2.05). Both CC and the appraisal mission agree that the two
aspects, quality and quantity, cannot be substantially improved under
present CC technology and labor availability, and that the only way of
improving them is through the utilization of appropriate equipment blended
with adequate labor input, improvement of work management, improvement of
workshop support and better quality control which are to be provided by
the project. This should, therefore, be considered an addition to the
present operation of CC to achieve incremental benefits in terms of quan-
tity and quality of production, which will represent the quantification of
the pursued objective to strengthen CC capacity. Therefore, the project
economic evaluation is based on the analysis of this incremental invest-
ment (consisting of the project and the accelerated investment program
carried out by GOB to execute the work program [para 2.16]) over the
investment that would have been undertaken in any case by GOB following
present CC technology. For this, it is necessary to place a value to
Burmese society on better quality and greater output of road improvement.
Considering that there is no demand price for the resulting product, the
benefits will be computed as savings in road maintenance economic costs
and in users' operating economic costs while satisfying the transport
demand. This is a conservative approach because the improvements in
operations such as work management, quality control, cost data and
workshop management which will eventually have a permanent effect on CC,
are not taken into consideration for the economic evaluation. All com-
ponents are considered to be interdependent since the lack of one of the
elements, say technical assistance, would severely impair the overall
impact of the project. Therefore, from the investment point of view, the
project components will be considered as one indivisible package.
3.05      The economic costs were estimated as cif plus economic domestic
distribution costs estimated at 15% of cif, for all tradeable items. Based
on VLD study (Annex 3), the economic cost of labor was estimated on the
basis of an assessment of marginal productivity in alternate employment,
and has been assumed to be 66% of wage rate. To complete the economic
analysis, Annex 2 presents an economic evaluation of the project "on its
own" by computing it simply on the streams of (gross) costs and benefits
to which the project would give rise rather than by comparing it with an
unregenerated CC operation as is done in the incremental analysis pre-
viously described. A summary of the main results obtained in the economic
evaluation follows. Details of the calculations can be found in the
Project Files (Annex 3).



-28-
3.06      In the incremental analysis, four different scenarios were
analyzed, namely: (i) the basic case; (ii) reduction, as compared with the
basic case, of the annual production of each rehabilitation unit from 25
to 20 miles, and of the maintenance unit from 110 to 82.5 miles;
(iii) increase, as compared with the basic case, of the rehabilitation and
maintenance costs of the "with project" alternative by 20%; and (iv) the
combined effect of the changes indicated in (ii) and (iii). The estimated
ERs of these cases are indicated in the following table:
Cases                                  ER
i)   Basic Case (the project
compared with conventional
CC operation)                       23.9%
ii)   20% reduction in outputs               22.3%
iii)   20% increase in costs                  20.4%
iv)   20% reduction in outputs and
20% increase in costs               16.0%
The economic evaluation of the project "on its own", that is, the project
compared with a continuance of present conditions (Annex 2), gives an
estimated ER of 26%.
It is concluded that the effect of the project will be economi-
cally attractive (opportunity cost of capital is assumed to be 10%), and
not very sensitive to changes in the parameters most likely to vary with
different degrees of efficiency in a construction company.
C. Environmental Effects
3.07      No particular ecological problems are expected with the
implementation of the project. The road rehabilitation and maintenance
works of the work program will include the improvement of drainage, and
such drainage will be designed to minimize erosion. Asphalt and aggregate
production plants will be located well away from habitation.
D. Project Risks
3.08      Project implementation involves proven technology and work
methods that have been in extended use in other parts of the world; tech-
nological risks connected with the project, therefore, are small.
Managerial expertise, however, is currently inadequate in CC for the
organization of construction works; risks from inadequate project
implementation are, therefore, present although as indicated in para 3.06,



-29-
the most likely effects of deficiencies in management, such as lower
annual production or increase in costs, are not very sensitive, and the
results are well within acceptable economic returns.
3.09      Implementation risks such as inability of GOB to provide enough
funds for financing the agreed work program, or utilization of project
equipment in other activities outside the work program, have been
thoroughly discussed during negotiations and GOB assurance obtained to
minimize the possibilities of this taking place.



-30-
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01       Agreement has been reached on the following principal matters
affecting the project:
i) the associated work program, work methods, specifications and
cost estimates (para 2.07);
ii) the scale and type of equipment to be provided under the
project, and that such equipment shall not, without prior IDA
approval, be used other than for the agreed work program (para
2.11);
iii) that not later than December 31, 1982, GOB will enter into a
contract, satisfactory to IDA, for the employment of consultants
to provide technical assistance on terms and conditions agreed
(para 2.15);
iv) cost estimates for the project and for the associated work
program (para 2.16);
v) the staff and other facilities required for project execution
(para 2.19);
vi) that by October 1, 1982, an agreement or order satisfactory to
IDA shall be in force between MOC and CC for carrying out the
associated work program (para 2.20);
vii) that by October 1, 1982, GOB shall establish and thereafter
maintain and operate until completion of the project, a Project
Cell with staff, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to
IDA (para 2.20);
viii) project audit reporting and monitoring requirements (para 2.24);
and
ix) adequate and timely release of funds for the project and the
associated work program, and that GOB will be responsible for
any increase of cost, foreign or local (para 2.26).



-31-
4.02      Assurances have been received from GOB on the following matters:
i)  coordination between the project and a possible UNDP funded Road
Research and Development Project (para 2.13);
ii)  completion of detailed design of the associated work program
(para 2.20); and
iii)  prompt and timely delivery on site of spares for the project
equipment and materials for the associated work program (para
2.25).
4.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of SDR 18 million (US$20 million) on standard terms to the Govern-
ment of Burma.



-32-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Background
1.        The Government of Burma (GOB) has prepared a Construction
Industry Project which has been appraised by the International Development
Association (IDA), an affiliate of the World Bank. GOB intends to seek a
credit under IDA terms to enable the project to be carried out over a
period of about four years, commencing in 1982. The project will consist
of:
(a)   provision of vehicles and mechanical equipment and tools for two
road rehabilitation and one road maintenance units, with spares;
(b)   provision of workshop equipment and tools to carry out field
maintenance, and to strengthen the capacity of base workshops
to repair project equipment;
(c)   supply of survey, design and office equipment required for the
units, and
(d)   technical assistance to establish and assist with the operation
of the units, to include the introduction of costing, cost
control and cost analysis of works and the improvement of
quality control and work planning.
Associated with the project, which is foreseen as the first
phase aimed at strengthening and enlarging the capacity of the Burmese
Construction Industry, will be a work program to be carried out by the
Construction Corporation (CC), operating the three units to be formed
under the project. The work program will consist of:
(e)   rehabilitation of about 115 miles of the Payagyi-Toungoo road
by widening out to 20 ft. carriageway from the present 12 ft.
to 18 ft. width, repair of the existing surfaced carriageway,
provision of an overlay, improvement of shoulders and necessary
bridge and culvert repairs and widening;



-33-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
(f)   rehabilitation of about 26 miles of the Payagyi-Sittang road
by repairs to the existing 12 ft. wide surfaced carriageway,
provision of an overlay and improvement to shoulders; and
(g)   periodic maintenance in the form of repairs to the surfaced
carriageway, generally 12 ft. wide, provision of single surface
dressing and repairs to the shoulders over about 330 miles of
road to the South of Mandalay.
CC is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Construction
(MOC) of GOB, but operates on commercial lines to carry out all forms of
construction work for the State sector in Burma. It is run under a Board
of Management, of which the CC Managing Director is Chairman. There are
at present about 2,300 engineers of all grades employed by CC plus about
10,500 other staff and some 45,000 tradesmen, plus a varying number of
casual labor.
2.        In order to assist GOB and CC to undertake the project, it is
desired to retain the services of a recognized and experienced firm of
consulting engineers to provide the services described herein. The firm
selected will be engaged by GOB on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.
B. Scope of Consultancy Services
3.        The consulting engineers will be attached to the three units to
be formed under the project, working under the direction of a Project Cell
(to be) established in CC. In the conduct of their work, the consultants
will cooperate fully with MOC and CC, and with other GOB ministries and
departments from time to time. GOB will provide the facilities and serv-
ices outlined in Part E hereof.
4.        Design for the rehabilitation work to be done under the contract
has been completed, but it will be necessary to review design as against
pavement condition before final plans are made for works to commence.
5.        A large part of the expenditure under the IDA project will be
for the procurement of equipment, spares, tools, workshop equipment and
survey, design and office equipment for the three project units. Although
general recommendations for the equipment required have been agreed
between GOB and IDA, the consultants will be expected to:
(a)   review and agree with GOB in detail the work program and work
methods to be used;
(b)   review and agree with GOB and CC the list of equipment, spares
and tools to be procured, taking account of the detailed work
program and work methods already agreed;



-34-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
(c)   prepare or review specifications and bidding documents for the
procurement agreed;
(d)   draft suitable advertisements and invitations to bid; and
(e)   on receipt of bids, assist GOB and CC with their evaluation.
The items likely to be required will include road making equip-
ment, equipment for the production of aggregates and roadstone, load and
personnel carrying vehicles, workshop equipment and tools, materials
laboratory equipment, survey and design office equipment and one or more
desk-top field data processors, with appropriate software.
6.        Upon delivery of project equipment, the consultants will be
expected to:
(a)   assist CC to set up and operate the three project units;
(b)   plan, organize, set up and commence to operate suitable systems
and procedures within the three project units to: undertake
effective materials testing and quality control; collect data
on operational costs and outputs of labor and equipment to
produce refined unit costs, including comparison of costs with
various labor/equipment mixes; and, using the results from the
preceding steps, initiate an effective management system for the
units, operating on quick feed-back of current data;
(c)   research current work methods, materials availability and
specifications for work undertaken in connection with the
project, and others similar, with the object of suggesting
improved work methods, better use of local materials and
suitable revisions to specifications; and
(d)   review labor and labor supervision practices in Burma in order
to be able to suggest improvements such as training, or worker
incentives which may help to improve labor outputs; and plan,
organize, set up and commence to operate, in agreement with GOB
and CC, necessary training for construction industry workers as
may be appropriate, either using existing CC facilities or
otherwise, in line with rules and regulations enforced in Burma.
C.   Staffing of Technical Assistance Team
7.        The consultants shall maintain in Burma properly qualified and
experienced staff to undertake the duties outlined in Part B hereof. It
is expected that about 140 man-months of consultant time will be required,
made up of the following staff:



-35-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
(a)   The Team Leader will be an experienced civil engineer used to
the planning and organization of construction contracts under
conditions similar to those in Burma. Apart from coordinating
the activities of the team (and coordinating with the UNDP
consultants in CC headquarters), the team leader will con-
centrate on work management and work planning, site organization
and the introduction of improved work methods and improved
specifications, paying particular attention to the economic use
of labor and labor intensive methods on present works of this
nature in Burma.
(b)   The Construction Engineer (Quality Control and Research) will
have had several years experience of control and supervision
of civil engineering works, preferably in more than one country
and under conditions similar to those in Burma, and should be
familiar with materials, location, survey and testing and with
the operations of testing laboratories. He will have the
responsibility of improving work standards and labor and equip-
ment outputs, and of reducing failure rates by better use of
locally available materials and equipment.
(c)   The Construction Engineer (Costing and Cost Control) will be
experienced in works costing procedures, probably with a commer-
cial contractor, as well as having a sound knowledge of supervi-
sion and control of works in practice. He will be responsible
for the analysis of operational costs and outputs in order to
arrive at realistic unit costs for estimating and budget
preparation, and in order to produce equipment operating, main-
tenance and depreciation costs to allow the correct decisions
to be made on employment of equipment.
(d)   The Plant Operation Specialist will be an experienced mechanical
engineer with a record of working on civil engineering works,
or a civil engineer with extensive experience in the use, care
and maintenance of mechanical equipment, including operation of
workshops. He will advise on the correct use, operation, care
and maintenance of project equipment, including field and
workshop maintenance and repairs, spares procedures and spares
inventory control. He will assist the Construction Engineer
(Costing and Cost Control) to produce realistic equipment
operating costs.
(e)   The Data Processing Specialist will have had experience of
working with civil engineering operations and will be acquainted
with a range of equipment and its use in practice. He will
assist CC staff to produce programs suitable for field use by CC
staff within units for: cost accounting, cost control, cost
analysis, plant and equipment records, spares stock control,
highway design, work planning and highway or civil engineering



-36-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
quantities. He will assist as required with staff training in
the use of data processors and programs.
(f)   The Training Specialist will have a record of successful opera-
tion in works or vocational training, preferably under condi-
tions similar to those in Burma. He will review the existing
facilities to train construction workers, both within CC and
elsewhere, and will suggest practicable improvements which will
make training more effective or increase the output of trained
personnel, or both. If required, he will plan courses, advise
on course contents and the training aids, if any, required, and
assist with the implementation of the training.
D. Services and Facilities to be Provided by Consultants
8.        The consultants shall provide the full-time services of properly
qualified and experienced staff in Burma to undertake the services
detailed herein over the period mid-1982 through 1986. Staff proposed
shall be acceptable to GOB and as approved by IDA. The consultants' fees
shall include for all staff salaries and allowances, overseas payments,
travel to and from Burma including excess baggage, accommodation while in
Burma, general insurance, health, welfare and sickness payments, retire-
ment and leave benefits, overheads and profit.
E. Services and Facilities to be Provided by Government
9.        GOB will provide the following services and facilities to the
consultants and their staff while in Burma:
(a)   suitable office accommodation, with the appropriate office
furniture and equipment, including typewriters (English lan-
guage);
(b)   ground and air transport within Burma in connection with their
duties, including the use of a car and driver within the Rangoon
area for reasonable private or family purposes as controlled by
the rules and regulations of CC;
(c)   the services of office support staff; and
(d)   liaison with CC technical staff in order for them to undertake
their duties.
GOB will appoint a full-time, fully qualified and experienced member of CC
staff to act as liaison between the technical assistance team and CC, and
will appoint full-time counterparts, as necessary, to work with members of
the technical assistance team within project units. Members of the tech-
nical assistance team are advised to bring with them to Burma personal
portable electronic calculators for their own use, and such technical and



-37-
Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
reference books as they may need, as these are not readily available in
the country.
10.       GOB will make available all data and information required by the
consultants in their work, insofar as it is possible to do so, and will
assist with the import and subsequent re-export of personal effects and
technical equipment required by the team. GOB will assist the consultants
and their staff in obtaining necessary visas and permits, and will advise
on obtaining suitable living accommodation during the consultants' period
of duties.



-38-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Project "on its own"
1.        In the incremental analysis of the project carried out in Sec-
tion B of Chapter III (paras 3.04 and 3.06), it was assumed that without
the project the CC would undertake road rehabilitation and maintenance, at
its own pace, costs and standards of quality, on the roads specified in
the project. It could possibly be that the selection of that "without
project" alternative might have the effect of raising the rate of return
to the project above what it would be if the project was evaluated "on its
own" rather than by way of comparison with the productivity performance of
CC, in case this results to be inefficient. Obviously, this might not be
the case, but it represents a possibility that deserves to be inves-
tigated. In this Annex the project is compared with the continuation of
the present situation which means that the work program roads are not
rehabilitated but only maintained to a low standard level.
Payagyi-Toungoo
2.        Traffic:  In accordance with traftic counts carried out in 1981
at two different stations (at mile 85.4 and 164.0) of this section, the
average AADT could be taken as 800 vpd in 1981. Considering the histori-
cal trend and supporting studies, the annual traffic growth rate is
assumed to be 8%. The composition of the traffic flow is 12% for light
vehicles (private cars and multi-purpose pickups) and 88% for heavy
vehicles.
3.        Roughness:  Based on visual inspection and assumptions made by
the appraisal mission, roughness is estimated to be 2,500 mm/km right
after project rehabilitation, increasing to 3,500 mm/km after 10 years.
For the present condition, roughness is estimated to be 4,500 mm/km,
increasing to 6,000 mm/km after 10 years.
4.        Vehicle Operating Cost:  Based on studies made by Vallentine,
Laurie and Davies, by Gitec, and on mission estimates, the average vehicle
operating economic costs on a level, tangent, paved road in good condition
are as follows:



-39-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
(i)   Heavy vehicles
Fuel                           1.18 K/mile
Oil                            0.21
Tire                           0.14
Repair and Maintenance         0.18
Depreciation and Interest    0.76
Crew Cost                      0.42
Insurance, Registration        0.06
Overheads                      0.15
3.12 K/mile
(ii)   light vehicles:  following the methodology of the above
mentioned studies, its value was derived by multiplying
the value for heavy vehicles times a factor of 0.55.
The resulting value is 1.71 K/mile.
5.        Benefits due to widening and improvement of shoulders:  The
results presented by VLD on pages 3-73 and 3-74 (see Document 1 of Annex
3) were revised and updated by the mission, and were taken as the basis to
evaluate the economic benefits due to shoulder rehabilitation and road
widening.
6.        Cost:  Project rehabilitation cost was estimated at K1,075,000
per mile at 25 miles/unit-year. Required maintenance costs at K17,000 per
mile per year plus K80,000 per mile for resealing every fifth year. Under
present conditions, it was assumed that K90,000 are required per mile
every year to maintain the road in a useable state, which allows for
repair of failures sufficient to keep surface roughness within assumed
limits.
Payagyi-Sittang
7.        The supporting data are similar to what has been indicated
previously for the Payagyi-Toungoo road. Details can be found in the
Project Files.
Maintenance Program
8.        Traffic:  In accordance with several trattic counts carried out
in January 1981, the average AADT could be taken as 600 vpd in 1981. The
annual traffic growth rate is assumed to be 6% and the composition of the
traffic flow is 35% for light vehicles and 65% for heavy vehicles.
9.        Roughness:  It is estimated to be 3,000 mm/km right after
project implementation, increasing to 4,500 mm/km after 10 years. For the
present condition, roughness is estimated to be 5,000 mm/km increasing to
7,500 mm/km after 10 years.



-40-
Annex 3
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Project File
List of Documents
1. Road Sector Improvement Study - by Vallentine, Laurie and Davies (VLD)
November 25, 1977.
2. Rangoon - Prome Road, Project Preparation Study. Draft Final Report -
by Gitec Consult Gmbh, September 3, 1981.
3. Sixteen Tables and notes on economic evaluation of the project - by the
appraisal mission, February 1982.
4. Engineering data for economic analysis:
i) Payagyi-Toungoo Road
ii) Payagyi-Sittang Road
iii) Road Maintenance, by appraisal mission, February 1982
5. Estimation of mechanical equipment requirements - by appraisal mission,
February 1982.
6. Construction Industry Project, Project Report - by Construction
Corporation, November 13, 1981.
7. Details of the Construction Corporation's organization and manpower -
by Construction Corporation, November 1981.
8. Traffic Volumes on the Pilot Maintenance Area - by Construction
Corporation, January 21, 1981.
9. Construction Corporation, Annual Financial Statements - by Construction
Corporation, November 1981.
10. Report to the Pyithu Hluttaw for 1981/82 - by Ministry of Planning
& Finance, 1981.



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Shares of Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin
(at Constant 1970 Prices)
(Percent)
1965     1970       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980
Agriculture                        28.8      27.2       26.7       26.8       27.0       26.8       27.2       26.8
Livestock and Fishery                6.4      7.4        7.1        7.2        7.0        6.9        6.9        6.5
Forestry                             2.7      2.6        2.5        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3
Mining                               1.1      1.1        1.1        1.1        1.1        1.2        1.2        1.4
Manufacturing                       10.3     10.7        9.9       10.4       10.5       10.6       10.3       10.6
Power                                0.4      0.6        0.8        0.8        0.9        1.0        1.0        1.1
Cunstruction                        1.7       2.1        1.7        1.7        1.7        1.8        2.1        2.4
Transportation                       5.6      5.9        5.2        5.1        4.8        4.8        4.8        5.0
Communication                        0.3      0.3        0.4        0.3        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Financial Institutions               1.3      1.1        1.9        1.3        2.0        2.5        2.8        2.9
S'cial and Administrative
Services                           7.2       8.2       10.3       10.7       10.7       10.8       10.8       10.8
Rental and Other Services            6.9      7.5        7.6        7.4        7.1        6.9        6.7        6.5
Trade                               27.3     25.3       24.8       24.7       24.5       24.0       23.5       23.3
(ID
Total                            100.0    100.0    10.0         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
1/    Revised estimate
Note: Years specified are fiscal years.
Source: Ministry of Planning and Finance, Planning Department.
February 1982



BURKMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Value of Construction Work, by Sector
(Millions of Kyats)
Type of Work                              FY77 1/       FY78         FY79          FY80           FY81
(Provisional)
1. STATE SECTOR
(a) Construction Works
i)  Roads and Bridges                         45.02          33.45        78.09        105.75        123.53
2/                                        (75%)         (90%)         (74%)        (67%)          (73%)
ii)  Industrial Buildings, Work-
shops, Schools, Hospitals,             209.79        396.30       474.03        655.67        711.07
Offices, Residential Buildings          (98%)         (87%)         (75%)        (56%)          (79%)
iii)  Irrigation and Dams                        41.83         58.67       104.61        156.58        244.11
iv)  Hydroelectric Dams, Power
Transmission and Distribition           10.63         48.06         53.83        41.86        254.63
v)  Railways, Airfields, Jetties,
Wharves and Related Works               16.43         12.19         55.46        51.44          58.24
vi)  Mines and Mining Works                      9.09          5.63        12.84         27.60         54.88
vii)  Otther State Works                         14.20         18.26         90.46       101.54         114.33
Total of State Construction Work         346.99        572.56        869.32    1,140.44        1,560.79
(b) Maintenance Works
i)  Roads and Bridges                          79.33        103.59       124.37        128.55        156.01
(100%)        (100%)        (97%)         (92%)         (82%)
ii)  Buildings                                  38.81         39.60        57.49         63.48         64.41
(90%)         (92%)        (78%)         (61%)         (70%)
Total State Construction and
Maintenance                            465.13        715.75    1,051.18    1,332.47         1,781.21
2.  COOPERATIVE SECTOR                                    -              -           0.89          5.37          6.44
3.  PRIVATE SECTOR                                     304.71         305.01       308.23       311.31         314.76
Total 1 to 3                                       769.84      1,020.76    1,360.30    1,649.15         2,102.41
Private Sector as Percentage of Total;               40            30            23           19             15
1/ FY77 denotes the Financial Year commencing April 1, 1976 and ending March 31, 1977.
2/ Figures in parenthesis indicate the percentage of work done by CC.
Source; Report to the Pyithu Hluttaw 1981/82 by Ministry of Planning and Finance.
February 1982



-43-
Table 3
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Construction Corporation Staff
Engineers
Situation                       (All Grades)    Administration    Total
Headquarters
1.  hianaging Director's Oftice              2                   4              6
2.  HQ Administration                        -                 429            429
3.  Accounts                                 -                 398            398
4.  Trade                                   37                 264            301
5.  Works                                   21                  49              70
6.  Planning                               368                 973          1,341
7.  Roads                                   49                 174            223
8.  Central Stores                          50                 270            320
9.  Stores Depot                            18                 126            144
10.  Mechanical Depots (2)                   36                 798            834
11.  Mechanical Stores                        5                  55             60
12.  base Workshops (2)                      50                 526            576
Total Headquarters Staff 1/           636               4,066           4,702
Field Staff
13.  8 Grade A Divisional Offices            30                 234            264
14.  6 Grade B Divisional Offices            40                 272            312
15.  14 Construction Units                  378                 840          1,218
16. 39 Maintenance Units Covering
307 Townships                     1,223               5,071          6,294
Total Field Staff                   1,671               6,417           8,088
Total Headquarters
and Field Staff                   2,307              10,483          12,790
Tradesmen 2/                                                           44,U16
Total CC Permanent Staff                                               56,806 3/
1/  There are no Grade IV engineers in CC Headquarters.
2/ Tradesmen are moved according to the workload.
3/ In addition to CC permanent staff, there is a variable
number of staff paid from work funds, which in FY82
reached a maximum of about 55,000.
Source; CC
February 1982



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Construction Corporation Expenditures
(Millions of Kyats)
Financial Year                  76          77         78          79          80          81          82
1. Buildings
Capital Works                182.18     205.87      345.42      355.62      365.20      561.94      624.64
Maintenance                   42.23       35.00      36.36       44.91       38.66       45.14       86.60
Total                        224.41     240.87      381.78      400.53      403.86      607.08      711.24
2. Roads and Bridges
Capital Works                 24.72      33.56       30.22       57.64       71.31       90.48       86.50
Maintenance                   65.60       80.70     104.13      120.48      117.85      127.25      159.70
Total                         90.32     114.26      134.35      178.12      189.16      217.73      246.20
3. Airfields
Capital Works                  3.69      12.21        8.75       15.37       12.16       28.34       22.91
Maintenance                    2.34        2.44        2.69       3.35        3.40        4.64        4.70
Total                          6.03       14.65      11.44       18.72       15.56       32.98       27.61
Total Works Expenditure       320.76      369.78     527.57      597.37      608.58      857.79      985.05
Note: Figures are based on CC estimated Job costs.
Source: CC
February 1982



-45-
Table 5
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Major Works Undertaken by Construction Corporation During FY82
Eatimated            Planned
Amount            Completion      Percentage
No.             Name of Works                             (Ryat thousands)         Date          Ccnpletion
1.      Parliamentary Building Complex (Rangoon              300,000               FY83             80%
2.      50-Bedded Hospital Complex as at
Magwe    )
Pa - An  )
Pyawbwe  )                                          37,500              FY83             50%
Akyab    )
Bessein  )
3.      National Indoor Stadium (Capacity 10,000)             20,000              FY84              10%
4.      Foreign Trade Bank                                    18,000              FY84              50%
5.      Union Bank                                           150,000              FY85               52
6.      Insurance Corporation                                 43,000              FY85              25%
7.      Housing Complex                                       16,000              FY82            1002
8.      Regional Colleges at
Myitkyina )
Pegu )
Nonyga    )                                         22,500              FY82             60%
Taunggyi )
Henzada )
9.      Agricultural Research Institute                       20,000              FY84             40%
10.      Wood Industry                                         80,000              FY85              202
11.      Fertilizer Storages                                   20,000              FY83             50%
12.      Milk Plant                                             6,000              FY83             202
13.      Pbtension to Cemt Kill (Kyangin)                      70,000              FY83             302
14.      Nev Ceent Mill (Mycing-galaY)                        100,000              FY84             102
15.      350 Ton Mini - Sugar Plant (Shwenyaung)               21,500               FY83              5%
16.      Extension to Pyinmana Sugar Mill                      31,500              FY84             20%
17.      Grain Storage Complex                                120,000              FY85              30%
18.      100/150 Ton Rice Mill (20 Nos.)                      180,000              FY85              30%
19.      Textile Mill (Shwedaung)                              82,000              FY83             90%
20.      Phugyi Water Supply Project                           60,000              FY84              50%
21.      Tin Smelting and Refinery Plant                       30,000              FY83             85%
,2.      DUnLhami Bridge (600')                                 9,135              FY82            100%
23.      Bilin Bridge (645')                                    7,000              FY83             852
24.      Kyungalay Bridge (220')                                3,500              FY82            100%
25.      Kyou-Pyaw Bridge (500')                                8,300              FY83             85%
26.      Thuwunna Bridge (984')                                69,300              FY85             10%
27.      Rangoon-Mandalay Road
(Meiktila-Mandalay Section)                          36,600               FY86             90g
U.S. Dollara
in Thousands
28.      USSR Embassy Complex                                   9,000              FY85             50%
Yen
in Thousands
29.      220-Bedded General Hospital                        1,880,000              FY83             40%
30.      Metallurgical Research & Development Center        2,000,000              FY82            100%
Source: CC
February 1982



-46-
Table 6
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Construction Corporation Income and Expenditure Summary FY78-82
(Figures in Kyats Million)
Revenues                                1978      1979     1980      1981*    1982*
Revenue from Works                   519.6    587.8    604.0    890.0    990.0
Other Revenue                         26.2     21.2      11.2       0.1       0.1
Total Revenue                    545.8    609.0    615.2    890.1    990.1
Expenditures
Construction                         323.8    346.3    353.3    634.2        712.1
Maintenance                          139.2    165.9    155.8    170.7        177.7
Subsidiary Construction Work          10.2       6.0      4.8        -          -
Direct Expenses                      473.2    518.2    513.9    804.9        889.8
Administration                        22.5      26.2     31.6      35.2       35.1
Depreciation                           2.7       3.4     13.1      14.        15.0
Operating Expenses                   498.4    547.8    558.6    854.1        939.9
Financial Expenses                     1.6       4.6      9.2       6.3       10.9
Total Expenses                       500.0    552.4    567.8    860.4        950.8
Income after Expenses                45.8      56.6      47.4      29.7       39.3
Less: Contribution to Government         2.2      17.1      13.5      8.9       11.8
Net Income                            43.6     39.5      33.9      20.8       27.5
Working Ratio                         90.8      89.4     88.7      94.4       93.4
Operating Ratio 1/                    91.3     90.0      90.8      96.0       94.9
* Estimates
1/ Operating expenses as percentage of total revenue.
Source: CC
February 1982



-47-
Table 7
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Construction Corporation Balance Sheet Summaries as at March 31
(Figures in Kyats Million)
1978     1979     1980
ASSETS
(a)   Fixed Assets
Buildings                                    20.3      21.5     23.2
Mechanical Equipment                         26.1      72.5     64.4
Motor Car                                    16.1      15.9     17.5
Other Fixed Assets                            2.2       2.1      2.8
Net Fixed Assets                             64.7     112.0    107.9
(b)   Current Assets
Cash                                        69.4       84.4    169.7
Accounts Receivable                         216.0     245.8    318.4
Stocks                                      323.3     322.9    365.6
Other                                        36.1      31.2     16.8
644.8     684.3    870.5
Total Assets                                709.5     796.3    978.4
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Long Term
Capital                                     251.0     289.3   295.8
P & L Accounts                              126.0     165.5    199.1
Bank Loan                                    43.0       6.5     24.2
Department Property                         37.7       37.7     37.7
457.7    449.0   556.8
Current
Deposit Account                            109.4       97.0    153.7
Purchase Account                            100.9     140.4    139.9
Remittance to GOB                             4.1       4.1      4.1
Others                                       37.4      55.8    123.9
251.8     297.3    421.0
Total Equity and Liabilities                709.5     796.3    978.4
Source: CC
February 1982



-48-
Table 8
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Construction Costs: Payagyi-Toungoo Road (mile 60-175)
(Costs without machinery component)
Description                    Quantity           Unit Rate (k)      Amount (k)
1.  Road Design & Testing          Lump Sum                                  650,000
2.  a) Removal of Top Soill/       2,500,000 ft3         1.2/100 ft3           30,000
b) Filling & Compaction-    50,000,000 ft3           3.0/100 ft3       1,500,000
3.  Sub-base2/                     3,653,100 ft3       272.1/200 ft3       9,940,085
4.  Base-2/                        1,366,200 ft3      1093.7/100 ft3      14,942,129
5.  Prime & Tack Coat             12,144,000 ft2       21.65/100 ft2       2,629,176
6.  Penetration Macadam 2/         3,036,000 ft3      2008.3/100 ft3      60,971,988
7.  Single Surface Dressing       12,144,000 ft2        75.4/100 ft2       9,156,576
8.  Replacement of Bridges             5,000 ft2           600.0/ft        3,000,000
9.  Culverts                          115 miles      60,000.0/miles        6,900,000
10.  Widening Bridges                   6,000 ft2           400.0/ft        2,400,000
11.  Road Furniture                    115 miles         6,00.0/mile          690,000
112,809,954
10% Contingencies (say)         11,190,046
Total :                    K  124,000,000
1/ Includes Cost of fuel, lubricants and labor only.
2/ Includes an element for haulage by private sector hauliers.
Source: Mission estimates.
February 1982



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Construction Costs (Payagyi-Sittang Road) (25.875 miles)
(Costs without machinery component)
Item       Description                    Quantity             Unit Rate (K)         Amount (K)
1.   Road Design and Testing             Lump Sum                                      130,000
2.   Repairs to Existing Road            Lump Sum                                      600,000
3.   Prime and Tack Coat                 1,639,440 ft            21.65/100 ft          354,939
4.   Penetration Macadam                   409,860 ft         2,008.30/100 ft        8,231,218
5.   Single Surface Dressing             1,639,440 ft            75.40/100 ft        1,236,138
6.   Shoulders                           1,400,000 ft           272.10/100 ft        3,809,400
7.   Bridge and Culvert Repairs          Lump Sum                                      400,000
8.   Road Furniture                      26 miles             6,000.00/mile            156,000
14,917,695
10% Contingencies (say)               1,482,305
Total                 16,400,000
(D
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1982



-50-
Table 10
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Mainenance Costs for 330 Miles of Road
South of Mandalay
(Costs without machinery component)
Description                  Quantity       Unit Rate (K)    Amount (K)
1.  Dig out and replace base                      3                 3
in failed areas                1,050,000 ft        850/100 ft    8,925,000
2.  Prime and tack coat              2,100,000 ft      21.65/100 ft       454,650
3.  2-inch penetration macadam                    3                 3
over failed areas                350,000 ft   2,008.3/100 ft    7,029,050
4.  Single surface dressing         21,000,000 ft       75.4/100 ft   15,834,000
5.  Shoulder repairs                    330 miles       27,600/mile    9,108.000
41,350,700
10% Contingencies (say)      4,149,300
Total :                     45,500,000
- K 138,000 per mile over three years
or (say) K 46,000 per mile per year
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1982



Table 11
-51-                                  Page 1
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Equipment for Rehabilitation Works
(for two units)
---- US$ thousands ----
Item                           No.      Unit Cost      Total Cost CIF
1.  Front End Loader Wheeled 2 cu. yds.         8            85              680
2.  Tracked Dozer 140 BHP                       5           162              810
3.  Grader 135 BHP                              4          107               428
4.  Roller Rubber-tyred 6 tons
basic unballasted                         6           30               180
5.  Roller Vibro Steel 6/8 tons                 8            64              512
6.  Compactor Pedestrian roller                 8             6               48
7.  Pedestrian Plate Compactor                  8             2               16
8.  Prestressing Jack 25-75 tons                2             6                12
9.  Crane Mobile 5 tons                         1            34               34
10.  Crane Mobile 10 tons                         1           85                85
11.  Granulator 20 T/hr                          5            90              450
12. Stone Crusher 40 T/hr
with mobile screening unit                8          225             1,800
13.  Bitumen Transfer Pump 35 gpm                 6            1                 6
14.  Bitumen Distributor 1000 g.                  3           55              165
15.  Bitumen Hand Spray                          8             1                 8
16. Bitumen Storage & Heating Tank
3000 g.                                   4           27               108
17.  Concrete Cube Tester                        4             1                 4
18.  Concrete Vibrator Diesel 3" dia.           16             1                16
19.  Concrete Mixer 10/7 cu. ft.                 2             7                14
20.  Concrete Mixer 14/10 cu. ft.                4             9                36
21.  Concrete Mixer 18/12 cu. ft.                2            10                20
22.  Chip Spreader Tipper Trailed               12             9              108
23.  Mobile Welder 400 amps.                     2            11               22
24.  Generator 10 KVA                            4             4                16
25.  Mobile Compressor 250 cfm                   4            17                68
26.  Tipper 8 cu. yds.                          80            26            2,080
27.  Trucks Flat 8 tons                          8            21              168
28.  Water Bowzer 1000 gal.                      8            27              216
29.  Mobile Service Truck                         3          44               132



-52-
Table 11
Page 2
-- US$ thousands --
Item                             No.       Unit Cost    Total Cost CIF
30.   Fuel Bowzer 1000 gal.                    6            27               162
31.   Fuel Storage Tanks 2,500 gal            15            10               150
32.   Contractor Pump 3,000 gph.               4              1                4
33.   Wagon Drill                              1             50               50
8,608
15% Spares (say)                            1,292
Total Foreign Exchange Cost:                9,900
Taxes (50%)                                 4,950
Local Transport & Commissioning Costs:        300
Total :            15,150



-53-
Table 11
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Equipment for Pilot Maintenance Area
(for one unit)
Cost          Total Cost
No.     US$1,00's        US$1,000's
1.  Front End Loader, Wheeled, 2 c.y.                  5         85                 425
2.  Tracked  'Dozer, 140 h.p.                          1        162                 162
3.  Grader, 135 h.p.                                   2        107                 214
4.  Roller, Rubber tyred, 6 ton                        2         30                  60
5.  Roller, Vibrating, 6/8 tons                        4         64                 256
6.  Crusher with Screening Unit, 40 t.p.h.             5        225              1,125
7.  Granulator, 20 tph.                                5         90                 450
8.  Bitumen Distributor, 1,600 gal.                    2         55                 110
9.  Bitumen Storage and Heating Tank, 3,000 gal.   2             27                  54
10.  Tipper, 8.c.y.                                    30         26                 780
11.  Bitumen Boiler, 400 gal.                           2         10                  20
12.  Bitumen Transfer pump                              4           1                  4
13.  Bitumen Hand Sprayer                               2          1                   2
14.  Pick-up Trucks, 2 ton                              5          8                  40
15.  Chip Spreaders, Towed                             4           9                  36
16.  Vibrating Roller, Pedestrian operated             4           6                  24
17.  Plate Compactor                                   4           2                   8
18.  Mobile Premix Plant                               4          13                  52
19.  Concrete Mixer  10/7                              1           7                   7
20.  Fuel Tank Trailer, 1,000 gal.                     3           5                 15
21.  Mobile Service Truck                              1          44                 44
3,888
Spares 15% (say)                                                   583
4,471
Tax                                                              2,114
Local Transport and Commissioning Costs                            125
Total            6,710



-54-
Table 12
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Workshop Machinery and Tools and Miscellaneous Equipment
Unit Cost      Total Cost
Item                                                           CIF            CIF
No.     Description                           Quantity       (US $)           (US $)
1.      Cylinder Ridge Cutter                     1            520            520
2.       Valve Spring Clutch Spring Tester        1            130             130
3.      Brake Shoe Radius Grinder                 1          1,300          1,300
4.      Generator & Alternator Test Bench    1                 650             650
5.      Distributor Tester                        1            260             260
6.      Starter Motor Test Bench                  1            780             780
7.      Automotive Electrical Analyzer            1          1,300          1,300
8.      Spark Plug Cleaner                        1          1,300          1,300
9.      Wheel Alignment Gauge                     1            520             520
10.      Wheel Balancer                            1            800            800
11.      Compression Tester, Diesel & Petrol  1               1,300          1,300
12.      Portable Analyzer                         -            390             390
13.      Toe Gauge Drive-over type                 1            550             550
14.      Volt-O-Amp Engine Tester                  1            130             130
15.      Mechanic's Service Tool Kit              4           5,200          20,800
16.      Torque Wrenches, Various                  4          1,250          5,000
17.      Service Jack 5T, lOT, 25T                8           1,050          8,400
18.      Trolley Jack                              3          1,170          3,510
19.      Tire Changer                              2          1,300          2,600
20.       Heavy Duty Press                         1            520             520
21.       Sleeve Puller/Installer                  1            260             260
22.      Cylinder Boring Machine                   1          3,900          3,900
23.      Cylinder Honing Machine                   1          3,900          3,900
24.      Bearing Pulling Attachment                2          2,600          5,200
25.      Bearing Cup Puller                        2             50             100
26.       Gear and Bearing Puller                  1          2,150          2,150
27.      Adjustable Wrench                         4            780          3,120
28.      Gas Cutting Tools and Regulator           2          1,500          3,000
29.      Tap and Die Set                           2          1,400          2,800
30.       Vacuum Gauge                             2            160             320
c/f    75,510



-55-
Table 12
Page 2 of 2
Unit Cost     Total Cost
Item                                                        CIF            CIF
No.     Description                         Quantity      (US $)          (US $)
b/f  75,510
31.      Tachometer                             2            260            520
32.      Radiator and Cooling System Tester   2              260            520
33.      Valve Seat Grinder                      1         3,600          3,600
34.      Valve Refacer                           1         2,800          2,800
35.      Steam Cleaner                           1         3,200          3,200
36.      High Pressure Washing Pump              2        10,000         20,000
37.      Impact Wrench                           3         1,500          4,500
38.      Engine Positioner                       1         5,500          5,500
39.      Micrometer Set                          3         1,050          3,150
40.      Diesel Nozzle Tester                    3           500          1,500
41.      Circuit Tester                          1           520            520
42.      Cylinder Gauge                          1           120            120
121,440
15% Spares and Materials (say)                   18,560
Workshop Equipment, Subtotal:                   140,000
43.      Soils and Materials Testing Equipment                           45,000
44.      Training Aids and Equipment                                     15,000
45.      Survey and Design Office Equipment                              32,000
46.      Data Processors and Software                                    91,000
47.      Technical Literature                                             8,000
48.      Miscellaneous Office Equipment                                  10,000
49.      Radio Communication (SSB)                                        6,000
Total Foreign Exchange Costs:                   347,000
Tax (estimated):                                245,000
Local Transport and Commissioning Costs          60,000
Total :           652,000



C-ONTROTTION INOOTRY PROJECT
REAR ONE                                   YLEAR TWO                                      YA    A                                        YEAR  FOOR                                       TEAR FORE                                        TOTAL
LFrte,   L-ca         Ton    Total        Foeo        LoO          Tan     Tolol        Enrl-        koA!       la        Tota         Fo..eIg       Lca         To       Total      IPorl           Loca         T..       Ftal.       Foreig        Local         Tax     Tota
a)  R9alltto                                                                                       ,900       300    4,950       15,150
b) Maneac                                                                                          ,23o       025   2O1l5         6,400
o)Weao   n  tielaeo                                                                                 500        60       2 44        090
Etaipeent Ociconal                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~10,710  405    0,309  122512                                                                                                                            14,718         485      71,3R9      22,512
2.  TECOO1 ALSOOISFANCR                                      35        3.2       -       30.2            321     30.9        -         357.9          501        06.1       -       601360.0                     49. 4      -      416.4          140.0         13.3                1 61.3           1.452      168.9                  1,620.9
Subtotal  I and 2                                  35        3. 2     -       30.0        15,039    521 .9    0,309   22,069.9             502        66.1       -       6407. 1         3607. 0      49.4       -      426.0          140.0         13.3       -        161.3           16,100      653.9        7,309   24,132.9
3.  0LMNTITY3CONTINGENCY (50)                               1.0        0.02               2.9         052.0      06.0    365.4    1,143.4           00.1          3.3       -        32l.4           10.3         2 .5     -        20.0            0.4          0.0       -           .2            808.6       32.07       365.4    1,206.7
4.  COsT CiONTiNGENCIOs
Ica   I (2.085)-i    0.005                          3.2                          3.1                                                                                                                                                                                                           3.1                                 3.1
Yna  2 l1.085))1.O075)-l    0.17                                                              2,666            1,304.6    3,900.6                                                                                                                                                            2,666                1,304.6    3,970.6
Tea  3 (1.0051(1.0051  01  0.23                                                                                                            152.5                   -        152.5                                                                                                            152.5                               152.5
Y.a-  4 ll.005)(1.075) -l'- 0.35                                                                                                                                                            134.09                         1 34. 9                                                           134.9                               134.9
Rear 5 lI.005))l.075)3 (1.06)     0.43                                                                                                                                                                                                     66.8                             66.8              66.8                                66.8
lea   I (1.06) -1    0.06                                      0.2               0.2                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.2                      0.2
Y-ac 2 )2.06)'l2~      0.12                                                                              65.0                  65.0                                                                                                                                                                      65.8                     85.8
Year 3 (.6 -1-0.19                                                                                                                                      13.2                 13.2                                                                                                                        13.2                     23.2
Year 4 )1.06)-  .- 0.26                                                                                                                                                                                  13.5               13.5                                                                          13.5                    13.5      F
Yc.n  S (ITO6) -l    0.34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.0                  4.0         ____             4.8                      48.8
CenoanttObte-a                           4.9        0.4              5.        .Jo.4i(  8.0 9         II8ZP7   5,109.0         102.6        16.5       -        190.1           153.2       16.0       -       169.2           74.2         -5.5       -79.0                  3,831.9       130.2        1.670    5,832.7
.TOTALI1  2, 3 an.d 4                           39.9        3.6       -       43.1      10,4_50.0   6213.0    0,79   28,048.7           76   2.6    -6                   845.2           520. 2      65.4      -        585.6          222.2        18.8       -        241~           001.0         786.1    8,9_79.0   29.765,0



-57-
Table 14
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements to End
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                            of Quarter (US$1000's)
1983
Dec. 31, 1982                                                  0
March 31, 1983                                                20
June 30, 1983                                                 40
1984
Sept. 30, 1983                                                40
Dec. 31, 1983                                              1,500
March 31, 1984                                            4,000
June 30, 1984                                            11,000
1985
Sept. 30, 1984                                           16,000
Dec. 31, 1984                                            17,200
March 31, 1985                                           17,400
June 30, 1985                                            17,600
1986
Sept. 30, 1985                                           17,800
Dec. 31, 1985                                            18,100
March 31, 1986                                           18,500
June 30, 1986                                            19,000
1987
Sept. 30, 1986                                           19,250
Dec. 31, 1986                                            19,500
March 31, 1987                                           19,600
June 30, 1987                                            19,750
1988
September 30, 1987                                       20,000
Source: Mission Estimates
Credit Effective Date: September 30, 1982
Closing Date: December 31, 1987



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION
MINISTER                            _
I
STRATEGIC ROAD COMMITTEE                          COUCI                               CONSTRUCTION COMMITTEE  ]
[ ROAD PLANNING COMMITTEE                      _             _                                 INSPECTORATE
DEPUTY MINISTER                          TRAINING COMMITTEE
0,
HOUSING                                                                               MINISTER'S
DEPARTMENT                                                                                OFFICE
CONSTRUCTION
CORPORATION
BOARD OF MANAGEMENT
(Chairman:
Managing Director
of Construction
Corporation)
MANAGING DIRECTOR
CONSTRUCTION CORPORATION
Source: C  . C.
February 1982                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank- 22392



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF CONSTRUCTION CORPORATIO1N
MANAGING DIRECTOR
SUB COMMITTEES
* PLANNING
* RESEARCH
* BUILDING & FINE ARTS
* PRODUCTION
rrz
DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERS                                         DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERS        DIRECTOR OF
PLANNING                                                       ROADS         I   ENGINEERS -WORKS
PLANNING                     LABOR & TRAINING          ROAD & BRIDGE PLANNING                                                             uL
ARCHITECTURE                                              ROAD & BRIDGE FINANCEI
DESIGN & QUANTITY SURVEY                                       ROAD DESIGN
STORES                                                BRIDGE DESIGN
SANITARY                     ADMINISTRATION            MATERIALS RESEARCH
MECHANICAL                                              SOILS TESTING
ELECTRICAL                                                        i
ACCOUNTS 
DIVISIONAL COMMAND
ENGINEERS
MAINTENANCE                            CONSTRUCTION
EXECUTIVE ENGINEERS                       PROJECT UNITS
TOWNSHIP ENGINEER 
| ORGANIZATION 
Source. C.C.                                                                                    World Bank - 18485
February 1982



-60-
Figure 3
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Typical Cross Sections
8'-0o"             6'-0"            6'-0"               8'-0"
SHOULDER                    PAVEMENT                    SHOULDER
5%                                   3%                5%o
~~~7 ~       i
trMATER IA L
PAYAGYI - SITTANG ROAD
42-0"
2'-0"         8'-0"                 8-0'          2'-0"
SHOULDER    2..                     PAVEIMENT                            SHOULDER
PEGU-TOUNGOO ROAD
SINGLE SEAL COAT (BITUMEN 0.2
GAL./YD.2 + CHIPS 90 YD.2ITON)
3"THICK BITUMINOUS PENETRATION
MACADAM (BITUMEN 616 LB./100 CU. FT.)
PRIME COAT (BITUMEN 0.1 GAL./YD.2)
-v     A, -          . ,/ . *    '   6" THICK BASE COURSE (BITUMEN               EXISTING PAVEMENT
0.75 GAL./YD.2)                                /
SUB-BASE COURSE
DETAILED SECTION AT (2-2)                                                  DETAIL SECTION AT (1-1)
(WIDENING CONSTRUCTION)                                                  (OVERLAY CONSTRUCTION)
Source: C.C.
February 1982
World Bank- 23699



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION TNDUSTRY PROJECT
Schedule of Technical Assistance
Monthly Fee          Year One           Year Two           Year Three         Year Four          Year Five                Total
________________________  _(US $)               (1987/83)           (1983/84)          (1984/85)          (1985/86)         (1986/97)
1. Team Leader                  11,000                    J. - 4                                                      .                                    39
2. Construction Engineer
(Quality Control)             9,500                                                                                                                    34
3. Construction Engineer
(Costing & Cost Control)    9,500                                                                                                                      20
4. Plant Operation Engineer    9,500                                                                                                                       21
5. Data Processor                9,500                                                                                                                      9
6. Training Specialist           9,500                                                                                                                     12
COST ESTIMATE (US$)                          Foreign      Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local
Consulting Fees
39 x $11,000 + 96 x $9,500               30,000               303,500            502,500              357,000             148,000             1,341,000
Air Fares (Return)
18 @ $2,500                               5,000                17,500              12,500              10,000                                    45,000
Fellowships                                                                            66,000                                                         66,000
Local Allowance
135 @ $500 per month 
135 9 $500 per month         2,500               26,400              43,450               30,500              11,900              114,750
Internal Travel
135 9 $350 per month
Fellowships (Local Costs)                                                                         5,100                                                         5,100
Local Staff
700 months @ $70                        _ _            700               10,500  _           17,500              18,900               1,400               49,000
Total            35,000       3,200   321,000   36,900  581,000   66,050  367,000   49,400  148,000   13,300  1,452,000 168,850



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Organization Chart of Typical Rehabilitation Unit
Executive Engineer
(Grade II)
I Acconts        |     Engineer                Engineer                Engineer                 Engineer                Engineer
Superintendent           (Grade Ill)             (Grade IlIl)            (Grade 111)              (Grade IlIl)           (Grade III)
Roads                   Roads                  Bridges                  Bridges               Mechanical
Accountant              Engineer               4 Engineers             3 Engineers              4 Engineers             3 Engineers
(Grade I)              (Grade IV)             (Grade IV)               (Grade IV)              (Grade IV)              (Grade IV)
Survey &                 Roads                   Bridges                 Bridges               Mechanical
Design:
Engineer
4 Accountants            (Grade IV)                                                                           Mechanics Grade I
Roads:
(Grade 11)                                                                                                  Mechanics Grade 11                                             a
Engineer                                                                            Mechanics Grade 111
(Grade IV)                                                                          Mech. Helpers
Roads &                                                                             Operators Grades I-lIl
3 Accountants             Stores                                                                              Drivers Grades I --I I
(Grade l1l)                                                                                                 Welders
S  Surveyors,  |              Tradesmen: Carpenters, Masons,
Clerks               Chainmen                                   Steel Fixers, etc. as
Tists                Storekeepers                               required.
Draughtsmen                   Casual Labor: As required
Source: CC and Mission
February 1982
World Bank-23700



BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Project Implementation Program
1982            1983            1984            1985            1986          1987
1.  Project Effective                                        *
2.  Prepare Specifications & Invite Bids
3.  Receive Bids & Evaluate
4.  Equipment Delivery
5.  Rehabilitation: Payagyi-Sittang Road
6.                    (Unit No. 1)
6.  Rehabilitation: Payagyi-Toungoo Road
(Unit No. 1)
7.  Rehabilitation: Payagyi-Toungoo Road                                                          -                     _ _
(Unit No. 2)
8.  Maintenance, Mandalay Area                                                          __              _ 
(Unit No. 3)
9.  Technical Assistance                                     _
(See Figure 4)
Source: Mission Estimates
February 1982






t  IND A   ,f   A          CHINA                                             SOC                      \oo
BNIoNLADESH 5      r>                                                                                     
INDIA T                        P-0o-
BURMA                                                                                                {
DE) OCR                                                         K ACCHINA
N  ~~~~~~----~~~~~~~~~                         <ACHIN ~        ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ C  I   
PROJECT T               STATE E               K
THA'. MAND                         PRRMg                                                                                               0
=~  PAVED RDADS                      26'                                      Th_b( z      oyP2j   j
DEMOCRATIC TVE                                                               \   - /
A        UNPAVED OR GRAVLPUCHE  9AM    (                  LS                                           I.
92-~~~~~~~~~~-
DIVISIONAL DR ST                                      ATE BOU:DARIES    T LTE-
/1                                             SAGAN        *- KGA  L
0~6        100     /    J0 300                   400                                        ;oL0                  V2HA
A G<
(A.~~~A,
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Pr H Fo jec         Loation        ARK          Tno         oYoo0TE(MO0                            I        000    O0~ THILAON         EPL'
K-~ ~
ID'                                                        KRanRROD,n ADIVISAI.NIVN ISION                                                             H
PAIED 111ADS ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     oo'1-
RODUDRCONSTRUCTION IN UTY640                                                                AHE0R
---    EATHRE  EROMAINEANEPSA
ROADETRC REAAILTAYIO
DINGLE TRACK RAILWAYS
14-  RIVERS                                                      EA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 04.0I                                               14VA
DIVISIONAL OR STATE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BAMGKOK,X
U    10,0         2 00         306         ADD 
RI IM62                                                                                   6
0    0        lEO       15 0      2C0       2O500, ~0,0,0CPVP0C,,C0C00
MILES
DO 2'6                                                                                                     .   0



