X~~~~~~l 1V f5h n    }g 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3301-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
May 6, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I
II
d
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Beneficiary:             The Ministry of Construction
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights 18.0 million
($20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project Description:    The proposed project is the first phase of IDA
assistance to strengthen the construction industry
in Burma and to help improve the quality and
quantity of construction work. The project will be
executed by the Construction Corporation (CC), under
the Ministry of Construction, which carries out 75%
of all road works in the country.
The project will establish three working units, two
in road rehabilitation and one in road maintenance,
with the necessary equipment, vehicles and
workshop facilities; and provide technical
assistance to improve work planning and
management abilities of CC within these units.
The project consists of: (a) provision of equipment,
materials, spare parts and vehicles for rehabilitation
and maintenance units; (b) provision of workshop
equipment and tools to carry out field maintenance
and repairs and to strengthen the capacity of base
workshops to repair project equipment; (c) supply of
survey, design and office equipment required for the
units; and (d) technical assistance to establish the
units and assist with their operation; including
costing, cost control and cost analysis of works,
and the improvement of quality control and work
planning.
Project implementation involves proven technology
and work methods that have been used extensively in
other parts of the world. Project associated risks
are, therefore, small.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                          $ Million Equivalent
Foreign   Local  Total
I. Equipment
a) Rehabilitation Units             9.90    0.30  10.20
b) Maintenance Unit                 4.47    0.13   4.60
c) Workshops and
Miscellaneous                  0.35    0.06   0.41
II. Technical Assistance
and Fellowships                     1.45    0.17   1.62
Sub-Total                          16.17    0.66  16.83
Contingencies:  Physical            0.81    0.03   0.84
Price              3.02    0.10   3.12
Project Cost                       20.00    0.79  20.79
Taxes and Duty                          _     8.97  8.97
Total Project Cost                 20.00    9.76  29.76
Associated Work Program a/           7.00   18.80  25.80
Total Cost of Project and
Associated Work Program:           27.00   28.56  55.56
Financing Plan:                                            $ Million Equivalent
(Cost of the Project and Associated Work Program)         Foreign   Local   Total
IDA                                   20.0        -   20.00
Government                             7.0    28.56   35.56
Total                                 27.00   28.56   55.56
Estimated                                       $ Million Equivalent
Disbursement:      IDA FY         FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual          .04   10.96    6.60    1.40    0.75    0.25
Cumulative      .04   11.00   17.60   19.00   19.75   20.00
Economic Rate
of Return:         About 24%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3809-BA dated April 23, 1982
Map:                IBRD 16279
a/  To be financed by the Government as part of the normal planned
work program.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for Special
Drawing Rights (SDRs) 18.0 million ($20.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance the Construction Industry Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Domestic and External
Resource Prospects" (Report No. 3908-BA, dated October 10, 1980) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on October 17, 1980. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
Government in 1962 and vested authority in a revolutionary council. Then,
the Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December 1973, and
under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was created with supreme
executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program
Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The
Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values
and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the
Twenty-Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being
implemented through a succession of Four-Year Plans. U Ne Win, who had been
President since 1962, announced his resignation just prior to the national
election in November 1981 and was succeeded by U San Yu, former Secretary
General of the BSPP.
4.      During the .1960 and early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political objectives. These
included increased government ownership of economic assets, greater equality
in the distribution of income, and Burmanization of important professional
and managerial jobs. A fundamental change in the economic and social
structure resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size
of holdings among farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of
major economic activities in trade and industry. At the same time, access of
the population to social services was expanded, particularly with respect to
education and health facilities. Insurgency was and is still a problem,
however, particularly in the hills and border areas, although there is
probably greater territorial control by the Government now than at any time
since Independence in 1948.
5.      Burma's economic performance over this period, however, reflects the
severe disruption in ownership, management, and distribution systems which
accompanied the social restructuring. Public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment



-2-
and producti-  which resulted; and economic growth suffered, scarcely matching
population growth. Throughout the period, investment levels were low, with
gross capital formation averaging only 10-11% of GNP. Furthermore, investment
was excessively skewed toward nationalized industry, while such key, directly
productive sectors as agriculture, forestry, and mining did not receive due
attention.
6.      The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated the problem.  They
were aimed at keeping down the cost of living for the masses, and in many
instances, State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) were not allowed full recovery of
their costs, leading to a decline in their financial surpluses and hence in
domestic savings. Furthermore, low agricultural producer prices discouraged
the production of paddy and other crops and led to dwindling export earnings.
Low export earnings, in turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import
essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing
underutilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely
limiting expansion. An increasing share of production was either traded in
the domestic unofficial market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of
official prices. In both cases, the tax base was undermined and income was
siphoned off by segments of the private sector with little opportunity or
inclination to invest these resources productively. The distortions arising
from this system were compounded by low, official interest rates and an
overvalued exchange rate.
7.      In recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government
initiated a period of reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan.
The main objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within the
context of a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and
self-sufficiency by converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based
industrial society, to eliminate unemployment and to reduce income
disparities. The Government's strategy for achieving these goals is
constantly evolving, with innovations proposed as new constraints are
encountered. The main elements of this strategy, however, appear to be: (a)
to give higher priority initially to the directly productive sectors,
especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to make greater use of
aid, trade, and--to a lesser extent--technical assistance; (c) to follow a
price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction, through increased
efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture; and (d) to begin
to introduce work incentives and commercial principles, especially in the
SEEs.
8.      Pricing policy still reflects the desire to provide basic consumer
goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, but it has begun to recognize the role
of prices in creating production incentives and financial viability.
Procurement prices of a variety of agricultural products were raised to
improve the economic position of the farmer, while others were decontrolled.
The procurement price for paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974. In
1977/78 the procurement price for high quality paddy was increased by about



-3-
4-7%. In industry, the Government obtained new costing schedules in 1976 and
increased the ex-factory prices of SEEs, although the adjustments remain
incomplete. These new costing schedules, in principle, allow profit margins
at the producing level for the first time for a great majority of SEEs. The
official exchange rate of the kyat was devalued by 25% relative to the US
dollar in January 1975 and a further 9% relative to the SDR in 1977, thus
partially compensating for the overvaluation. The interest rate on savings
deposits was raised from 3.5% to 6% in April 1975 and raised again to 8% in
November 1977.
9.       In addition to these pricing reforms, the Government introduced
reforms in investment allocation, management of SEEs, and taxation. The
percentage of public investment which was allocated to agriculture (including
livestock, fishing, and forestry) in the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75 to
1977/78) increased to about 20%, compared to about 11% during the previous
decade. The share of mining rose from about 5% for the period 1963/64-1973/74
to about 11% in the Second Four-Year Plan. The share of industrial investment
which was allocated to consumer goods and light industries, however, was very
small. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to enable
SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to improve distribution of their
production. The guidelines introduce greater autonomy in the management of
SEEs, set standards by which their operational performance will be measured,
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance. Although problems remain, particularly in regard
to incentives for operational and investment efficiency, production trends and
financial performance have greatly improved. In April 1976, a major tax
reform was enacted. It included the introduction of a Commodities and
Services Tax and a Profits Tax and resulted in increasing Union Government
revenue from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1977/78.  This tax reform
represented a major turnaround in public finance and was perhaps the most
important achievement of the Government in recent years.
10.      In part as a result of these measures and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second
Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%,
compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation
increased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a
percent of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary position of the
Government lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn,
contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation. The consumer price index
declined slightly during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%,
during 1978. The average annual growth in exports was 3-4% in real terms; and
increased external borrowing permitted an annual average real growth in
imports of 16%.
11.     More recently, during the first three years of the Third Four Year
Plan (1978/79-1981/82), Burma sustained an average annual real growth of 6.7%



-4-
which was accompanied by rising exports and relatively stable domestic prices.
The favorable GDP growth has been based on steadily rising agricultural
production, which increased from 9.3 million tons in 1977/88 to an estimated
13.1 million tons in 1980/81. Gross fixed investment rose at an average
annual rate of 20% in real terms and was financed by increased inflow of
external assistance and expansion in domestic credit. On the other hand, the
Government's domestic resource mobilization efforts produced less satisfactory
results, and the consolidated public budgetary deficits deteriorated from 3%
of GDP in 1977/78 to 12% of GDP in 1980/81. Tn fact, despite the very
favorable development since the mid-seventies, much remains to be done to put
the economy firmly on the path to sustained and more rapid growth.  the
problems confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential
farm inputs, inadequate transportation facilities and shortages of farm power
and basic farm services, in particular agricultural credit and extension
services. They also include the need for further production incentives
through increased agricultural producer prices and through a greater flow of
consumer goods to the rural areas. In industry, further adjustments of SEE
product prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately,
to stimulate productivity growth, and to generate surpluses for reinvestment.
In external trade, the role and impact of the exchange rate needs to be kept
under continuing review, given the importance of greater export growth for
the development of the domestic economy. Greater export promotion efforts
for minor products must also be made.
12.     The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration, and
implementation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid in
its manner of operation and appears to focus excessively on the formulation of
targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and administrative apparatus,
decentralization of decision-making, and strengthening of the4capability of
Government entities to prepare and implement projects are urgently needed.
13.     The Government recognizes the general nature of the problems and
issues to which attention must urgently be addressed. If appropriate actions
are taken, Burma is capable of a significant acceleration in economic growth.
In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the Private Enterprise" is
useful. The Rules and Regulations of this law have been issued, and
registration of enterprises is proceeding.  It is hoped that by legitimizing
private sector activity and establishing a clear set of guidelines for the
development of the public, cooperative, and private sectors, some
reintegration of the economy will take place which can be expected to have a
beneficial impact upon economic performance.
14.     The Government's planned GDP growth for the Fourth Four-Year Plan is
6.0%, an ambitious target and one which will require external assistance for
projects contributing towards:



-5-
- development of energy resources and conservation measures;
- intensified and more efficient use of existing cultivated areas
and reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture (research and
extension services, supply of essential inputs, especially
high-yielding varieties of planting materials, fertilizer and
light agricultural machinery; improvement of irrigation
facilities, in particular, tubewell development; and integrated
agricultural development);
- better utilization of forestry resources (through the improvement
of extraction, processing, and transport facilities);
- development of known mineral deposits; and
- development of agro- and mineral-based industries which possess
clear comparative advantage (including food, fish, wood
products, and fertilizer production).
- improved capacity utilization in manufacturing and transportation
through increased provision of materials and spare parts.
In addition to such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate existing
capacity in transportation and communications. the transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment, and maintenance.
While project loans and technical assistance can be used to address most of
these projects, commodity financing wil'l also be required from external
sources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment
in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
15.     Burma's debt service ratio increased from 13% in the 1977/78 to about
20% in 1980/81, due primarily to a substantial increase in the loans from
private financial institutions and suppliers' credits. By the end of 1980,
Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately
$1.5 billion. Burma's exports have been showing steady growth in recent
years, and the potential for a continued upward trend is good. Nevertheless,
because of the rising debt service burden and because of Burma's low income
level, external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should, in
addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present, be
covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is particularly
needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a low foreign
exchange component.
16.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a
relatively healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the
quality with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank



-6-
continues to ^mt cuss with the Government further improvements in economic
policy which might help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development as well as external assistance requirements. Discussions on these
topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma
Aid Group meetings which the Bank has organized at the Government's request.
The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and
there have been three subsequent meetings, with indications of increasing
donor support each year.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.     Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totaling $33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
18.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending was
resumed in 1973 and since fifteen credits totaling $362.3 million equivalent
(net of cancellations) and two credits denominated in Special Drawing Rights
totaling SDR 43.7 million have been made. About 72% of this assistance was
for the agricultural sector, consisting of eleven projects: irrigation,
rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects, grain
storage, two forestry projects, a wood industries project, and the Kinda
(Nyaunggyat) Dam multipurpose project. About 10% of IDA's assistance
supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector through three projects,
namely inland water transport, railways, and a second ports project. The
remaining 18% of IDA's assistance has been for two projects in the
telecommunications sector (14%) and one project in the mining sector (4%).
Three credits have been fully disbursed so far. In general, IDA-financed
projects have been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with
expectations.  The proposed Credit would be the first in FY82.  Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA Credits as of March 31,
1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no
investments in Burma.
19.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge of
some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our
ongoing projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved.
A $4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline
suitable for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture,
transport, power, and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber
Rehabilitation Projects (Credit Nos. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were



-7-
prepared under the Umbrella Project. A second phase of this Umbrella Project
has been agreed with the Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association
plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to
help improve Burmese project preparation and implementation capabilities, as
well as administrative and managerial skills through in-service and overseas
training.
20.     The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying
production for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the
development of agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and
where possible, priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the
same time, financing of infrastructure improvements will continue in the
development of power and such areas as transportation, telecommunications, and
construction, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Inadequacy of
infrastructure has increasingly impeded economic activity in the directly
productive sectors of the economy.
21.     In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
many of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A project to provide for
transmission of power from generation facilities already established or under
construction and to address institutional issues in the power sector has been
circulated to the Executive Directors. Projects under preparation include
paddy development, tank irrigation, rubber rehabilitation, agricultural
credit, and textiles.
22.     The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR
Background
23.     The first Public Works Department (PWD) in Burma was formed in 1861 to
undertake buildings, roads and irrigation works. Between 1917 and 1954, the
work of PWD was split between the National Housing Board, the Department of
Highways and the Irrigation Department. In 1965, 22 separate departments and
boards dealing with construction work in the country were amalgamated into
the Public Works Corporation, which in 1972 become the Construction
Corporation (CC). CC, in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), is the principal
construction agency of the Government. It is responsible for monitoring and
control of all construction work in the country and also provides technical



-8-
and other assistance to state authorities, cooperatives, and private
enterprise.
24.     Between FY77 and FY81, the value of construction work carriecl out in
Burma increased threefold from about $107 million to $292 million. In FY81,
the public sector undertook about 85% of the total construction work, of which
CC, on average, carried out 75% of road construction work and over 9C% of road
maintenance. Some road construction work is also done by township peoples'
councils and municipal bodies with technical advice from CC staff. Building
maintenance and minor construction work, generally, is undertaken by
respective Government ministries and agencies who have set up their own repair
and rehabilitation facilities.
25.     Unlike many countries, the effective operation of the construction
industry in Burma is not hampered by a shortage of qualified technical
personnel.  Instead, the main deficiencies are a lack of minimal equipment and
spares, and poor quality supplies, besides a management system operating
without adequate and reliable data.  Construction work is labor intensive, due
to shortage of equipment and spares and not because of large labor surpluses.
The country-wide unemployment rate (estimated by the Government at about 12%
for urban areas and at about 7% for the whole country) tends to be seasonal in
rural areas according to the demand for agricultural workers and there are
some regions where labor is always in short supply.
26.     The construction industry contributes about 2% to the total GDP in
Burma, compared to about 5% in Bangladesh and 8% in industrialized countries.
However, since the early 1960s, the average annual growth rate of suchI
contribution at constant 1970 prices has been a significant 16.2%, reflecting
a sharp increase in investment in industrial buildings, workshops, irrigation,
infrastructure and power stations. However, the transport sector in general,
and the road subsector in particular, have received low priority. During the
period FY77-81, an average of only $10.7 million annually was spent on road
construction and improvement. Although the annual allocation for road
maintenance increased from $11.0 million in FY77 to $21.7 million in FY81,
it is still insufficient to ensure adequate maintenance. Government officials
are concerned about the adequacy of the existing infrastructure, and the
desirability of increasing the share of investment for transport, especially
road transport, in the Fourth Four-Year Plan (1982-86) is presently under
discussion. Nevertheless, the construction industry contributed 25% in FY81
and an estimated 23% in FY82 to gross fixed capital formation. Comparable
values for other countries are 48% in Honduras, 70% in Bangladesh and an
average of 54% for other developing countries.  It, therefore, appears that
despite increasing demand, the part played by the construction industry to
augment Burma's national capital stock is small compared with other countries,
and could well be improved by a planned increase in the industry's capacity.
27.     CC undertakes construction projects proposed by Government
departments, state corporations, or people's councils. These proposals are



-9-
investigated technically by CC staff but, generally, economic evaluation is
not carried out. These proposals, through MOC and the Ministry of Planning
and Finance (MOPF), are submitted to the Economic Coordination Committee of
the Cabinet for approval before being included in the appropriate development
plan. In order to undertake economic evaluation of roads and bridge works, a
Highway Planning Unit has been set up in CC headquarters, but so far the unit
has been engaged in collecting basic data. Project planning and preparation
within CC is affected by shortages of reference books, drawing, reproduction
and survey equipment and ancillary facilities. Materials testing during
design is inadequate, often due to difficulties over transport of staff and
samples between the site and laboratory, and once construction is in progress,
there is usually little quality control testing. However, these aspects
should improve with the recent delivery of a range of materials and laboratory
equipment under Japanese aid. Further, a proposed UNDP-funded Road Research
and Development Project aims to help the Highway Planning Unit and improve the
planning as well as materials testing capability of CC by providing technical
assistance, equipment and other resources to CC headquarters.
Bank Group Participation in the Sector
28.     Since 1973, IDA assistance has supported 17 projects all of which
contained elements involving the construction industry. Specifically, three
projects have helped rehabilitation of transportation in Burma, namely Inland
Water Transport ($16.3 million), Railways ($16.0 million), both in FY73, and
Ports ($10.0 million) in FY75. The proposed project is the first in the
construction industry's roads program, and will help improve road construction
and maintenance methods and operations in Burma.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
29.     Since the mid-1970s, the spurt in economic activity has made
increasing demands on infrastructure facilities. It was evident that a
significantly larger construction capacity to satisfy demand was becoming
a high priority. A preliminary IDA mission went to Burma in January
1981, followed by discussions between the Government and IDA in May 1981
and again in September 1981, when the scope and main features were agreed
for a project designed to improve both quantity and quality of
construction work in the country.  Since the project is seen as a first
phase, it was decided, in order to simplify and accelerate project
preparation, to concentrate on the road making activities of CC and to
operate through only a part of the organization, with the expectation
that limited objectives would have a better chance of showing positive
results.



-10-
30.     Appraisal of the project took place in November/December 1981.  The
project work program is based on the Road Sector Improvement Study (1976-77)
by Australian consultants, Vallentine, Laurie and Davies (VLD), financed by
the UNDP Burma Umbrella Project, and a project report prepared by CC. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 3809-BA dated April 23, 1982) is being distributed
separately. A timetable of key events relating to the project and special
conditions are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, from
April 5 to 9, 1982. The Burmese delegation was led by His Excellency U Hla
Tun, Minister of Construction and included His Excellency U Kyaw Khaing,
Burma's Ambassador in Washington and U Kyin Hlaing, Managing Director of the
Construction Corporation.
Project Objectives and Description
31.     The proposed project would aim to strengthen and further develop the
capability of the construction industry, to enable it to undertake efficiently
an increasing volume of development work. The project is the first phase in
which the road operations of CC will be strengthened in selected field
operations leading to improvement in overall management, costing and road
rehabilitation and maintenance. It is expected that the later phases will
attempt to strengthen CC, as a whole. The project consists of:
(a) setting up three working units, two for road rehabilitation and
one for road maintenance, and provision of mechanical equipment,
materials, spare parts and vehicles;
(b) provision of workshop equipment, materials and tools to carry out
field maintenance and repairs and to strengthen the capacity of base
workshops to repair project equipment;
(c) supply of survey, design and office equipment and materials required
for the units; and
(d) technical assistance and fellowships to establish the units and assist
with their operation, including the introduction of costing, cost control
and cost analysis of works, and the improvement of quality
control and work planning and management.
The Associated Work Program
32.     In order to bring about the proposed improvements in CC operations,
the units to be set up and equipped will carry out rehabilitation and
maintenance works which have been demonstrated as economically viable and
which form part of CC's work program. However, under the project, this work
program will be completed at a faster rate, that is, at about 25 miles per
unit per year as compared with the present unit's output of about 8 miles per
year. Furthermore, the present rate of pavement failure (about 10% of the
paved area per year) is expected to be reduced to 2% per annum or less with



-11-
better control of materials and work methods. The road maintenance unit will
operate over a compact network of roads south of Mandalay in order to complete
pavement repairs and then reseal about 330 miles during the period FY83 to
FY87, as compared with the negligible amount of resealing that is done at
present.
33.     Rehabilitation work would include repair of failed areas, increasing
road width, providing extra base, laying penetration macadam, single seal
dressing over the entire width of the carriageway and widening bridges,
culverts and the road embankment to give adequate shoulders on either side.
Work is planned on two routes, namely, (a) Payagyi - Toungoo Road (115 miles)
which is a part of the main route connecting Rangoon and Mandalay, and now
carries a traffic flow of about 800 vehicles per day (vpd), with over 85%
heavy vehicles; and (b) Payagyi - Sittang (26 miles) which is the principal
overland route between the Karen and Mon states in the south and Rangoon
areas. At present, communications are mainly by train and river and traffic
on the road is now about 700 vpd, with about 80% heavy vehicles. However,
this overland traffic is expected to increase significantly with the
completion of two major bridges at Bilin and east of Thaton.
34.     Maintenance work would cover about 330 miles of roads located in an
area bounded by Myingyan, Yewun, Meiktila and Kyaukpadaung (Map IBRD 16279).
Traffic now averages about 600 vpd, with 65% heavy vehicles. The roads, which
are mostly surfaced over 12' width with narrow or practically non-existent
shoulders, have deteriorated or failed because CC has been unable to carry out
periodic maintenance as required. Routine maintenance will continue by
township engineers, but the backlog of periodic maintenance will be carried
out by a unit to be set up under the project, using largely traditional
methods improved by the introduction of quality control and some machinery to
obtain higher standards of work. It is planned to complete the periodic
maintenance program of pavement repairs and resealing at the rate of about 110
miles per year over three years.
The Construction Corporation (CC)
35.     CC is responsible to the Minister of Construction, who is advised by
three committees, the Construction Committee, the Strategic Road Committee and
the Road Planning Committee. Technical audit of works undertaken by CC is
carried out by an Inspectorate of Works whose staff is nominated by the
Minister of Construction for a period of three years at a time. In 1981,
about 50% of jobs done by CC were inspected covering aspects of management,
labor, organization, inventory control and finance as well as engineering
standards.
36.     Management.  The Managing Director (MD) of CC is the chairman of the
Board of Management which also includes CC's three Directors, for Planning,
Works and Roads. The Director of Works controls the field organization
through 14 divisional command engineers, comprising 18 construction units (14



-12-
for buildings, 2 for roads, and 2 for bridges) plus 307 township engineers
carrying out minor works, operation and maintenance. In CC headquarters, the
Director of Roads is in charge of design and planning of roads works, and the
Director of Planning has a similar function in relation to building works.
37.     Personnel.  In 1981, CC had a permanent staff of about 2,300 engineers
(460 graduate level), 10,500 other staff and about 44,000 tradesmen and
technicians, in addition to up to 55,000 casual labor. With an annual
expenditure in FY82 of $140 million, CC's expenditure of about $300,000 per
graduate technical employee is 30% below a reasonable workload, even allowing
for the low controlled prices in Burma. The ratio of administrative to
technical staff (4.5:1) is higher than usual, whereas the ratio between
headquarters and field technical staff (about 1:2.6) is low and should either
be increased or more of the planning function delegated to field staff at
command level and below. CC has found it difficult to undertake detailed
works planning and effective site management because of its centralized
control, inadequate resources in headquarters and an absence of feedback on
unit costs and labor or equipment outputs.
38.     Training.  CC has a sound training organization based at three centers
(Thuwunna, Insein and Mandalay) where 46 courses (from three weeks to four
months duration) were run for about 1,900 staff in 1980-81. Each center is
supervised by a principal with permanent staff and part time lecturers
provided by CC headquarters. The Deputy Minister of Construction heads a
central training committee which approves all courses and assesses training
needs for CC. Training programs are affected, however, by shortages of
equipment, materials, the inadequacy of some syllabi, and technical
publications and literature. Among graduate CC staff, most obtained their
first degree in Burma, but a significant number have continued studies
overseas, and many have had the opportunity of working with foreign experts
on road or building works or with consultants. On-site training is being
given by Australian and Japanese teams on road and bridge work respectively.
CC staff is also working with Japanese teams on a range of major building
works.
39.     Financial Operations.  Until 1976 when the guidelines for operating
State Enterprises were introduced, CC operated on the lines of a normal PWD,
with all its activities funded directly from the Government's consolidated
fund. Since 1976, however, CC has been allowed a degree of financial autonomy
to formulate its own budget, and operate on semi-commercial lines as the sole
executing agency for the Ministry of Construction. CC is, therefore,
financially responsible and accountable for all its operations, including
normal capital expenditures which can be financed either through operating
income or by borrowing from local banks. In the event that CC is able to earn
a surplus on its operations, 25% of such surplus is paid back to the
Government's consolidated fund and the balance is distributed to CC staff as a
bonus according to set rules.



-13-
40.     No reliable and consistent financial information is available on CC
operations before FY78. The statement of actual income and expenditure for
FY78 through FY80 and CC's estimated figures for FY81 and FY82 show that the
growth of CC expenditures have generally kept in step with the growth of its
revenues, which is explained by the fact that the prices of most inputs used
by CC in its work are fixed by the Government, and CC can adjust its rates
with each new project as input costs change. For the three-year period
beginning in FY78, CC's operating ratios averaged about 91%, and are expected
to rise slightly but would remain below 100% over the next two years. CC
attributes this to an expected increase in the cost of its non-revenue earning
activities, such as maintenance of its own buildings and rehabilitation of old
equipment. Provision of new equipment, giving increased productivity, and
improved cost accounting could be expected to make an improvement in the
operating ratio.  Overall, CC has maintained a profitable position throughout
FY78 to FY80. Its income before contribution to the Government varied between
7.7% and 9.3% of total revenue, but CC expects this to reduce nominally in
FY81-FY82 before a later improvement.
Project Implementation
41.     Although the project beneficiary will be MOC, CC will be responsible
for implementing the project with the assistance of the technical assistance
team provided under the project (para 43). The Government would, by
October 1, 1982, make necessary arrangements to enable CC to carry out the
Associated Work Program and provide sufficient funds for the purpose.
Detailed design for pavement strengthening of the Payagyi-Toungoo road has
been completed, and similar design work is being undertaken for the
Payagyi-Sittang road (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The three units, being set up in areas outlined in paras 33 and
34, will be under the nominal jurisdiction of the command engineers within
whose areas they operate, but they will operate separately from the command
engineer's organization, except for the use of the base workshops and general
staff administration facilities. Each unit will have its own mechanical
engineering staff and accounts section and will function under an Executive
Engineer with other engineers controlling work operations on site. By
October 1, 1982, an adequately staffed Project Cell will be set up in CC
headquarters for the implementation of the project (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Work Planning and Management
42.     A principal tool to improve work planning and management will be the
use of costing, cost control and cost analysis within the units. In order
that data can be collated and analyzed quickly, and be available where it is
needed, small and robust data processors suitable for use in the field will be
provided.  This equipment will also be used for spares and stock control,
highway design and estimation of quantities within the units, on an
experimental basis, prior to possible use of the same methods throughout CC.



-14-
If the proposed UNDP-funded Road Research and Development Project is finalized
early, it will be possible to harmonize this aspect with UNDP proposal to
introduce similar equipment into CC headquarters.
Proposed Institutional Development
43.     The technical competence of CC staff is generally adequate.  The
technical assistance proposed for the project (135 man-months) is required
primarily to help improve performance in the areas of management and
organization, site and contract planning, cost accounting and cost and quality
control. Also included are field research into possible improvements to work
methods and specifications, and into the appropriate labor/equipment mix on
works of this nature in Burma. These are all activities which will directly
benefit the units to be formed under the project and their work outputs but
which can then be applied to other activities of CC and, possibly to other
state and private sector construction work. The technical assistance team
would comprise 6 specialists, namely, (a) civil engineer (team leader) to
coordinate the activities of the team within the three units and with CC and
concentrate upon aspects of contract management, site organization and
introduction of improved work methods; (b) construction engineer (quality
control and research) to help improve outputs and work standards and to reduce
failure rates by devising better utilization of available materials and
equipment; (c) construction engineer (costing and cost control) to analyze
unit operational costs as a means towards improved efficiency of works, to
determine realistic costs for estimating and budget preparation, and to
produce correct equipment operating costs to facilitate proper decisions to be
made on use of equipment; (d) mechanical or civil engineer (plant operation
specialist) to advise on the correct use, care and maintenance of the plant,
vehicles and equipment, including the operation of workshops, spares
procedures and inventory control; (e) data processing specialist to prepare
programs suitable for use in the field by staff of the three units for cost
accounting, cost control, cost analysis, plant and equipment records, spares
stock control, highway design and work planning and highway quantities and
train CC staff in their use; and (f) training specialist to review existing
construction industry training programs and facilities in CC and elsewhere in
order to suggest improvement and, where practicable, assist with
implementation. Draft Terms of Reference and conditions for the technical
assistance have been agreed with CC and the Government. The Government will,
not later than December 31, 1982, enter into a contract of employment with a
consulting firm whose background and terms and conditions shall be
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Monitoring
44.     The collection and analysis of data on outputs, work progress and work
costs as an aid to improved management of works is an important objective of
the project. It is planned within the project to (a) monitor equipment and



-15-
labor outputs for a range of common operations; (b) use materials testing of
inputs and quality control of outputs as a means to achieve consistent work
standards; (c) introduce works costing and cost control in order to improve
decision making on the most appropriate work methods to be used; and (d)
employ cost analysis as an aid to better forecasting of expenditures.
Initially, these tasks will be undertaken mainly by members of the technical
assistance team, working with CC staff. It is, however, intended to set up
the functions of monitoring costs and quality control to become a regular part
of the three units' operations (and in a later phase, of CC as a whole) as
soon as possible.
Project Cost and Financing
45.     The total cost of the project is estimated at $29.8 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of $20 million equivalent (67%),
local costs of 0.8 million equivalent, and a provision for taxes and duties of
$9.0 million equivalent. Associated with the project is a work program of
road rehabilitation and maintenance, estimated to cost $25.8 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of $7 million equivalent for
procurement of bitumen, which the Government plans to import under its normal
program. The estimated cost of technical assistance, including all allowances
and external travel is $1.62 million including local costs of $0.17 million
equivalent for 135 man-months, or about $10,800 per man-month. Physical
contingencies average 5% on both equipment and technical assistance. Price
contingencies have been estimated at 8.5% for FY82-83; 7.5% for FY84-86; and
6% for FY87 for foreign costs and 6% per annum for local costs. Estimates for
equipment, vehicles, workshop equipment and tools, and technical assistance
are based on 1982 prices or 1981 prices updated to 1982. Cost of the
associated work program to be borne by the Government has been estimated using
the latest CC Schedule of Rates for materials, labor and equipment operating
costs, but not including equipment hire charges. Cost estimates are
summarized in the Credit and Project Summary.
46.     The proposed Credit of $20 million will finance the foreign costs
which are 67% of the total project costs. The local costs and taxes,
amounting to about $9.8 million equivalent, will be met by the Government,
together with the costs of the associated work program, estimated to be about
$25.8 million equivalent. There will be an adequate and timely release of
funds for the project and the associated work in order to ensure successful
completion of the project (Section 3.01(a) and (b)(ii) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). Further, any increase in the cost of the
project, foreign or local, will also be met by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.     Equipment for the project will be procured following international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. Bids from
domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference of 15%, or the



-16-
prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower. The Association would review all
contracts and related documentation for goods and services financed under the
project; such review will take place, before any award is made, for goods and
services estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more. Spares or materials
estimated to cost less than $12,500 up to a total of $250,000, may be procured
locally in accordance with Government procedures acceptable to IDA.
Consultants for technical assistance will be appointed following IDA
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants." Disbursements of the proposed Credit
will be made against (a) 100% of foreign exchange cost of directly imported
equipment, spare parts and material or 100% of ex-factory cost for locally
produced equipment and spares, or 65% of cost for locally procured equipment,
spare parts and material; and (b) 100% of foreign expenditure for technical
assistance, fellowships and training.
Benefits and Risks
48.     It has been the Association's  policy to encourage and foster the
development of local capabilities to conceive, design and carry out
development work on a sound basis. The main benefit expected of the proposed
project is entirely in line with this policy, consisting of further developing
the local capability of the construction industry, to enable it to efficiently
undertake the increasing volume of development work resulting from the
sustained and high economic growth achieved during the last years in Burma.
The immediate benefit will be the strengthening of certain road units of CC,
which are expected to contribute at a later stage to an improvement of the
overall road production of CC. Thereafter, it is expected that the whole of
CC would benefit once the improved operational and management techniques of
the project are more widely applied.
49.     In the context of Burma and to better monitor the results of the
project, it is advantageous to apply the various CC strengthening-oriented
procedures to be evaluated during the execution of the project, to some useful
purpose, namely the Associated Work Program, which should be considered a
vehicle to achieve the main project benefits. Therefore, a secondary benefit
of the project is the improvement in the condition of the roads included in
the Associated Work Program as a result of the rehabilitation and maintenance
works carried out during project execution.
50.     In Burma, road rehabilitation is done using labor-intensive
techniques, with some exceptions such as in the case of the Australian
financed West Bank roads which are being constructed to high standards with
rigid quality control and by mechanized methods. Due to absence of enough
equipment for operations which must be mechanized, such as compaction, coupled
with unsatisfactory quality control and poor work planning, the quality of the
finished product is inferior to that proposed under the project, while annual
production is very low. The Government and the Association agree that the two
aspects, quality and quantity, cannot be substantially improved under present
CC technology and labor availability. The project will provide the necessary



-17-
elements for so doing. The economic analysis of the incremental investment
brought about by the project over the investment which would have been
undertaken by the Government under present CC technology, indicated an
economic rate of return of about 24%. Sensitivity tests were also done and
the results, even under the most pessimistic assumptions, show an economic
rate of return greater than an acceptable 16%.
51.     Implementation risks such as inability of Government to provide enough
funds for financing the agreed program, were thoroughly discussed with
Government and satisfactory assurances were obtained. Technological risks
associated with the project are considered to be small.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
54.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 6, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-18-
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                   Page  1
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSANL SQ. KM.)                                                      MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL            676.6                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     103.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  50.0         70.0     160.0             232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(EILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      57.5        66.1       72.0             499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 21790.0      27034.0  32913.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3         22.8      26.7              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       50.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         90.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       32.2        40.0       48.6             153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    204.0       253.0      310.6             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         38.2        40.4       41.1              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                         59.2        56.3       55.2              59.2                  56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         3.3        3.7               3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.2        2.2               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                              3.7         3.8        3.9               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    42.8         39.8       37.2              27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.1        16.5       13.6              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         2.7        2.6               2.5                    1.9
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..         ..              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0       101.0       99.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   92.0       104.0      106.0              98.6                 112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        57.0       59.0              56.9                  62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       10.0        12.0       12.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.2         17.8      12.7              14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.0         49.0       54.0              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..          ..         ..              89.1                  50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-         18.0      17.0              30.1                  45.9
URBAN                               ..        35.0       30.0              65.8                  68.0
RURAL                               *-        13.0       13.0              20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        35.0       33.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               *-        45.0       38.0              71.0                  71.0
RURAL                               *-        32.0       32.0               4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         15564.3      8797.3    5121.4             3857.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      7386.3    6123.9             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1561.0      1173.2    1107.5             1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                               ..       347.9      378.1             322.3                 579.6
RURAL                               *-     15237.4    7228.1             5600.5                1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         34.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SlUE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.6           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



-19-                                                ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BURMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BURMA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 56.0        87.0      b4.0              85.9                  99.8
MALE                 61.0        92.0      87.0              94.4                 100.6
FEMALE               52.0        83.0      81.0              64.5                  98.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 10.0        21.0     20.0               38.0/aa               53.5
MALE                 13.0        26.0      22.0              34.6/ca               58.4
FEMALE                7.0        17.0      18.0              18.0/aa               48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   0.5           1.0       ..                3.8                  21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          42.0         47.0      54.0              32.8                  34.2
SECONDARY                           ..        32.0      37.0              19.9                  31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       59.7/c       ..       67.0              52.8                  86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.8          1.0       1.2               1.7                  12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        5.3         14.8      22.0              35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..        ..                3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                   ..        15.0      10.7              14.6                 106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.0        8.1        ..                3.4                   4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   10408.9      11591.3  13199.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.1        36.9      36.0              29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              ..         69.9      67.1              69.8                  50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 ..         8.0       9.8               14.1                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               47.8        42.9      40.1              39.7                  40.2
MALE                                58.0        54.7      51.8              51.5                  49.8
FEMALE                              37.8        31.3      28.6              23.3                  31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.9          1.0       1.1               1.1                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6id
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.77d     40.O/e       *
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.5Td       8.O CT.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.57d      21.0./      .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..      94,0              134.1                 248.6
RURAL                              ..          ..       68.0             111.6                 193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..       50.0               ..                  249.8
RURAL                              ..          ..       36.0               ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URkkAN                             ..          ..       40.0              41.7                  21.2
RURAL                              ..          ..       40.0              51.7                  32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
inong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1962; /d 1958, Rangoon;  /e 1972.
May, 1981



KNNEX I
Page 3
ltrlb:'cIdtf Di 910111 fhllhllAhlR
Motes:  Although the d-t  are drun Ito.ne . " soures teno lly jdgd ohe                           ..tucbrrs e o  reliable, l  hol  also be outed chat they soy sot L. ine--
usetooillytosrsechiebecus  of. I h   uko aItdr Isetdf itossd c-ocen  used hr different countie-  -n cleting  the data.  the" Iutse, eons-
thla,ueu   odsthe          he oder  of  agjtude, iodicuo   trns  and  brcrle etannotdfrnesho sonta.
of the subj- et   ontyCocp   r  'Iytu   uyloIl-ootou   ru   Ct M'Itddle  oosNrhlrr.n   idsEs'  scoa   eus   feeaa
so I-ulua    ff""t"e  -) te the ofereoc  St0c  lueteaeue   r                         -ouat i eghoelartmic sesftuhintto sdsowolyst
so   ceuios    ntc   utheeciedIlor-atlf-tecto  ofen   tdccr- noaoter                                      Shoeteragoars t-ry usflI=ssinneeleo
Ido l deE-  -toueeI   uin.C -eyucce pe--cyitu  te -l u5l   ioan  un  n he.                                                                                     fPplainlee
Tota  - Tota  -urIsce ore- ce            1-trt    d urcclIlrdotr.cha,edrrlCdoddh  olrretnionse   f  epsibd
dgrcutuol-te-        uaecrellrlouucltcyry    er yo --lari                                        -aeluhle  it rublic ard prine  genralao  epacialIts1 borite1 andre
fu   ry,Patur.., nu     - il kitchen   -d-oacrt  lbt feller  1171 dote.                   th.  litInccnes    oytdaeeescleecsrraetysafd
leer ff1 160ITA CUSC  - 1N0 p-y -eyca et-nitktcu            -c ro  prtc-, cul-                      dia Itr  co  ct           Itlua.   hus -oslas   oatr   oCd   ree
cultgel by sne        -rerico necie   eWedtuk           -tc   (1977-79 lbelt); 1Ail,              sod sod tea   stee  o  yo-eoenIY enffed by s physic iuo Chu   y
191sd 199lt.udcsess n,euu,adie   ee. C suh offer t-aIet syb na-
aWGY i ~~~~~~~ONSU~~~~TIO. PSR 0~dstonendyrntd  0l"ictta   r-ns  of esdite-faI ib Fe.,y stes
titElel Cltttf0Ti~  010  10021- Mccc  cceeuyolccel ceserciu ... e..gy  cltoipu-poase crier honyituis telas  iE   ettpl/ees  hoepieala,
nod lignilto    y          -rle ocrIl gus nod lydr--, e-ceeran  geceh-rool-an    crl busyialg1 local or rural hospitlsl sod malese sn seriy
erciyC  eo ttleucon   ef c-u  sq iolcom   cuttu: loll, 1971, ad17cusn.IcileAhytlsrenlddnuyneetest.
dats.                                                                         dlmles~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d    1Ito    Spc HoosII tad b.Toed r.be  ofld  adislyn   oo  dshe
tuheptsdivided by the oca  of beds.
lutalrorultiut.tild-eor Cloucedsl - As cf July 1;  960, .1977, end 1979             9111151
ifferc_    eiiteno.rbtoa    a  elfertcco 4orct ltyr t                                          -tdhtlheIreucse a    I hedcle  erldgot sa   rsyso  bn Included to
-ergc    i-res  196i, 1977,-on  1979 Ou-o.                                                   thneuehl                       I..t"tn  u  pores
youltoofojrtea                                                           nrerohrurrcneor  on-nh                          rer-alrue    A-knog
Popelatoe innear  Ilt -  oyrto  yeyulttor pojoctens ur~  hued or 117           heref pssote pr tee  in el  urban  eod  cest ...p..            cenosginn-
toa bouair  yuredtt  r   hf   nridrn    etllorie'nligs   eyciey.oeloencud-otpnestteuerse
stno  fey fertiil ty   _It elan ha ne  h-o  1oct10  -eI-l   d-1llt  In                     of toa.uban, aol o-rsl d-ellngsre-p-tin-lp.
fe-tilitysc--diofceon-nt  c.   as   ety   lctg ynofcrro
Each ceu...ny II  te  cottgond  -oeuf  ht t    tint cerh-itu te  cifanoin                ttet
en.d fertilIty toendIf-e  crlac-ttor pu-ee.Adlse  Erlm-tOt
the birthraeineuleto  et  race., un   lcti   l                       toucr  noIoolnro   I   te   at th  prmary tnla   Isous                                       f retasv
salts constant.  Thtnincuhiened eoly~~_j  oUst f-tar it  loprtee d-cteo                 rno   cho-g    nuciei-omlytcuescide    gd6l
tIe replaceseot lecel of cot n.te- r-od-ot1   rate, nhn.  -ch geo--oh-                  'yeare hut edl-ceed for differet.. 1oghfr  of pe-ey educcete; fee
In the yner 2000, .dc  the  ate  bIee  ietlt    roec   etee                                    eudensho    tute.1 nate en fae- e;cn  a   hv;  mndr
mect tenet.                                                                                     sdacat Ietstcrae          ast  fou  yeas--    er a  poi-erytaent;
Psa  s-titorty rcaopuceousi        ecid - The.oroo   tctrr   ccet yyrnd-                                       esrl nht-ol  u   nohee -ltg isrctefee pmflk'
sine has been neonts'.                                                                          usually of 12 in 17 yuoa of age; -=reepetdt-   onrs          -ar  gesetY
fcpaletioolessity                                                                                   socleded.Vb_i.
Pe ks.k. - fid-y-r  uete e  pen  q.cuc-  iilcooer  107o                                           .-Iuoir  oelstecolneCacc   fsoeay)-Vcgoa   .a                    hm
toedarea  1960. 1971 end 1979 data-                                                          ioclods tehla, industrial, or otle  pregese  shi.h apeee  tadp-d-
only: 196   1970 and 1979 hoc.-                                                               Oufltsoa  oio     tief,Y sode-oedere - Tete1 It  -ane  aeso1ld i
64 P-er-t), end ot-ired C5 pram  cod ocr-at)        rctar  of pe.-ea ,rc-crepodn las.
Isist  IlbI  191,ed 1979 date.                                                                  OdlIt 1Mtno=   cute   eoet         it.teoni  adule  (able  ere   a    is
Potultlon  rnot feteC ityeo  ..  ~tuu  - -.-u,o  gc-oci nnoea ur tutu?  cc-sapoat                                f tota  sdulntop nis  gd 15yeo  sa  sse
rerepltloc. foe 1950-60, 1917, ee  1970-79.
Goeeie    oth   as(ecot  R.huc  - oul de-'1  n.... ci cd                  ,'-cu-        Ibthltcf
tatos  o  150-Al, 1960-70, end 1970- d.                                                       Pastohrlonthucudonuacel-mass   -ear  oenisamee
Pportatfu; l9t0,_19.71, ad   90  utic .sileeoora
Po.iton  16. ff71. ul1979 aeu                                                                   re   aso   aea  0nhfit ear ee-sad efpetsn:  alds-
nf  n   es'   saf    o-ye-r ecerego eniog In 1960, 1970, sod 1979.                              sos   ou   biahoihdl1          sse..
ofbitth-cete  de-lce  -cd- ecy-n  cf nsi-tu   m-lly occe  p-gren.                             un-era  public yen thousoe  poytato; aolds  unIosa  fPoaser
,.feal    lcI_c- te_Coreo  un.nnedoc ) - yrefe  c   uce                                           to~,I  uonc da  o  to years sieh.i. seo   fT   as   ei   fes
wosPe  f chill--haiog  Seg  (15-4u  peoralot  e  -     re -eocldo-ec-  go                     IeIrce  linuleoo   fE thau...ad eoenl-ti)- itssth  aveesgei
all m-tiod ecee  on esue cfn erce.                                                              culueto  ci "daIly1 eora  ieTseaa  eseseepr'Idftan  as aP-ZeIitiol
obttiodenotedi primaily no e-ordiog aesdsas               t Is  _eeidses
Peal MDl NtRtITIOsNr  be 'deity" If it eppesra at feast foar teis-    na
Icden of Food rodu-i-o tnlct(99-1fl-luef yen  -yit- consul                                      lienaecA a-tsl-c  rt Eanite so  Tsa  - Bae  no ties mast of
:tescea   ofs-geo  stinh er-sIbecootan  cu atsC. -*cffeu otA
tea  re sluddl.Aefgeente productIon cf earl co-coy It husd or                    ,   Ideal FORCE
natnlceaopoucryieni                   'e 961-h5, 19701..ed 1979 dace.                       TrIa taboo fore  leoa-ds) - So-amdolly satins parsec  isalding
Pe  catCanl   fclre   (ecn   frofeotl - lytnd foes                                             e      I           ...o.s ed  splorad hut soegdiag b-eaie,saae   e.
enrysocloIf net fool cupylfe  enileblo fo country yen Ieyft                         rere  yoyol-iot of elf ages.  fentoaIn  etn    oses   n
~peeday.  uAe lsheeplle   opfsdoetcyuorlo   noe IIt                                           nncmynb.s  1960. 19,70 and 1979 dat.-
gaittescse  le            -k foyecSic..cclliIe-1es i  lcntoihudnc     ..o.              P.-ie-duI.cultur.ereo   taboo toteiseanig  tesfry 1-1e   and.
sogssee  a imctsd b  Ply laced, 00  hyiolot- e  enlafo  nrn   ic-                       fIhnbseZretg  o   oa   ahrfre  16. P  and 191  -da.
hoseol  lonet  f96-91  197,e197  doe.097  en  1999lte
net  uppy o  fon  pe  da.  fit eynl  en  endto  efiel u  oloo.no-                or ete  reos ae _mpodd a  nael.sale  sa  fas  fatenfars a
quiremntd  ice lth  cruit-oinaa.    bikdh  iI    rnl   o - - -linuy     e                     Ps co llngeeaftotel, soeadtl    oaetmofalem    eyei
alh ehl fd      1tesoftilnncf   e   a  and 11froneuf ucmal on                                 1911  1971  ed 1 979t det .Tessobad      ltpesipiaras
plepoetof obt-oin 11gaoeeudb-           nu  yrecJfn. T-euneeced-                    relnig  g-n   treueo  the  synIt's                   anItgsinta
comP.,neeteu   deyag  tonch     u         I ycyeed h-70  it th  Itbd              ccob lnonisor  R-tIo      Iat   fpeoebnude   tedi   a vn
rIned from    60ial  ecd fuen  it gresoi pe  dcy; 191-d    1971 ee  197 .dc.             InOoly'iM-fl           97su'Th       tb.W-IL'   I'   pi
agegeupf-  psrs  noichildre gto chon ugn -Iroy   onto  ln-cIcylcc-                             5  ecnt-th -O pret, I  threc 21 percen, -sul pors  -d psk
"0td If.....thweh f75n-   t   1T-i,ebPi3,-~f1                                                                Isu I 91     !t.
thi  E       .ctuc   at  I-oth   fennoi he -mo50olde el, trr  uf1 hit tenhtoT            The fellein   esiae  aetr7            spotse   esws         6fpvet   aes
Wt hid Fb;    S-lb ,;191961end 1  0.d 79 9dote.   -sod tehl be leterpretod  slfbtesalsrbteiion`. 1
icst..  neit  Rt   ntcouadC-Prce   coh  c   oanaoecuu'                            trYeieedosouePoenybe   ItlItt  nesggs     chn  a   rsa 
of ehntroesyencfee  0oyolttnte.  Ir ao ccbacoroua ihtc              yvconlicoae -        the  coutry    IrWeeli   eta   rmitaees
.biru tef  c bhanedyt  lor9tod  norh nuccdeltmanefrehh-a ayh                                     e       ldetch odjtensat for  itghr neat ofUitsiaies eo
coeieodasbengntht  seuabt   ceu cl  that~ hifen._m_ec_                          P_On           tinoudf eenacoc        tam  uhelot Ponn (Inb4ptca  itavn  -sunsan -d unha
psrc-tagashnf th flnr reyPt=        ou.cfc.   ern   Itupnu  nu_n _Incluicdft
fogle..   oa  Pyi rbo --ealtfu  lydc   b  cccou  el runluek -cblyMcl-e-z   .   ig.    -If,i     I   b     t-
r::isesqulifd  Inee hc% caluo  ahe   e   urhcrulc  Ico....
Nosuatio  pen lgu-ceebns  Pette      - 1Pplce  -let-o ty ec dereTp-utl1r
pale- ge..l f~-radoo -nuir-  prccetrn,_trdieo-etro.tury o



ANNPZEX I
Page 4
COUNTRY DATA - BuRMA*
AREA                       POPULATION                                                  DENSITY
676,581 sq km              34.9 million (1981)                                     52 per sq km
Rate of Growth:  2.3% (from 1980 to 1981)              187 per sq km of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS a/                                       HEALTH (1980)
Crude Birth Rate (per '000):                      37.2             Population per physician:                 4,550
Crude Death Rate (per '000):                      13.6              Population per Hospital Bed:             1,407
Infant Mortality (per '000 live births):
INCOME DISTRIBUTION (1972)                                         DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP (1975)
% of national income, highest quintile:             40              % owned by top 14% of owners:               42
lowest quintile:            8             % owned by smallest 62% of owners:           26
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER a/                                           ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1977)
% of population - urban:                          30.0              7 of population:                           6.6
rural:                        13.0
Total:                        17.0
NUTRITION a/                                                        EDUCATION a/
Calorie intake as % of requirements:                106            Adult literacy rate:                        67%
Per capita protein intake (grams per day):    59                    Primary school enrollment:                 84%
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981:-/ US$164
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY1981                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
$ Million    %                         1971-76         1976-81         1971-81
GNP at Market Prices               5,571      100.0                       2.1               6.3            4.2
Gross Capital Formation            1,320       23.7                      -1.0              17.4            7.8
Gross National Saving                 995      17.9
Foreign Saving c/                     325       5.8
Exports of Goods, NFS d/              472       8.5                      -7.2              15.2            3.4
Imports of Goods, NFS d/             774       13.9                     -10.5             21.3             4.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE, AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY1981
Value Added                    Labor Force            V. A. Per Worker
$ Million     %                 Million     %                  US$
Agriculture e/                       2,595     46.3               9.0        66.7               288
Industry f/                            148    13.3                1.3         9.6               575
Services/Trade                      2,263    40.4                 3.2 g/   23.7  /707
TOTAL                          5,606   100.0               13.5       100.0               415
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Public Sector                     Union Government
Ryats Million      % of GDP          Kyats Millioe       % of COP
FY81            FY81                FY81              FY81
Current Receipts                           6,978 h/          18.8 h/            5,526              14.8
Current Expenditures                       5,066             13.7               4,945              13.3
Current Surplus                            1,912              5.2                 581               1.6
Capital Expenditures                       6,534 i/          17.6 i/            1,393               3.7
External Assistance (gross)                2,732              7.4
*All data for FY81 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/  Most recent estimate, referring to any year between 1976 and 1979.
b/ The per capita GNP estimate is based on a straight exchange rate conversion using FY81 GNP
and K 6.619 = $1.00 (average exchange rate for the fiscal year).
c/  Defined as external current account balance excluding grants.
d/  Calculated on accrual, not payments, basis.
e/  Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
fl  Includes mining, power, and construction.
gI  Includes workers not elsewhere specified.
h/  Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
1/  Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



-22-
ANNEX I
Page 5
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                           1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981
(Kyats million outstanding at                       Mar.       Mar.       Mar.      Mar.        Mar.      Mar.       Mar.
end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                              5,342      6,052      6,377      6,631      8,017      9,619      11,213
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       6,222      6,445      6,213      6,550      7,194      8,990      10,885
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        639        956      1,489      1,706      1,728      1,653       1,651
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                   27.6       25.8       23.6       22.4       25.4       28.2        30.2
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon
(1972 = 100)                                     206.4      252.6     249.7      234.6      247.9      249.4       248.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                   25.9       22.4      -1.1       -6.0        5.6        0.6        -0.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      26.8        3.6      -3.6         5.4       9.8       25.0        21.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     -6.7       49.6       55.8       14.6        1.3      -4.3        -0.1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY81)
FY79     FY80      FY81                                                  $ Million
(USS Million)-
Exports (GNFS)                          260.2    442.3    520.4                 Rice and Rice Products                 205          43
Imports (GNFS)                          602.6    702.4    835.2                 Teak                                  109           23
Resource Balance                       -342.4   -260.1   -314.8                 Base Metals and Ores                    29           6
Animal Feedstuff                        8           2
Net Factor Income                       -13.6    -22.1    -26.2                 All Other Commodities                  127         26
Net Current Transfer                     12.5      15.4      16.5
TOTAL                          478         100
Current Account Balance                -343.5   -266.8   -324.5
Official Grant Aid                       59.6      65.5      96.2             EXTERNAL DEBT, March 31, 1981
Net MN&LT Loans                         362.9    362.1    289.0                                                           US$ Million
Disbursements                         390.6    421.7    353.3
Repayments                             27.7      59.6     64.3                Outstanding and Disbursed                   1,516.7
Short-term Capital                       -6.7      -5.9     -0.9
Outstanding, including
Net Errors and Omissions                -14.2    -43.2    -13.5                   Undisbursed                               2,740.2
Overall Balance                          58.1    111.7      46.2
Gross Reserves (end-March)              162.1    258.9    274.8
Net Reserves (end-March)                 62.7    177.3    232.5               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR FY1981                     Z
Ratio of debt service to exports of             20.1
goods and services
RATE OF EXCHANGE
1979 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1982 (US$ Million)
US$1.00  = K 6.52
IBRD        IDA
1980 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                               Outstanding and Disbursed                         185.1
US$1.00  = K 6.76
Undisbursed                                       225.8
1981 (End of Calendar Year)
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51                                                               Outstanding, including
US$1.00  = K 7.40                                                                   Undisbursed                            --     410.9
As of February 28, 1982
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
US$ 1.00 = K 7.63
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
April, 1982



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower           Purpose                 Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and three credit fully disbursed                 33.1    53.3           --
483      1974    Burma   Lift Irrigation                     -    17.0         0.2
493      1974    Burma   Forestry                            -    24.0         1.8
597      1975    Burma   Livestock                           -     7.5         3.2
642      1976    Burma   Paddyland Development               -    30.0         8.7
671      1977    Burma   Second Ports                        -    10.0         0.1
686      1977    Burma   Tin and Tungsten                    -    16.0         0.8
745      1977    Burma   Seed Development                    -     5.5         1.3
835      1978    Burma   Paddyland Development II            -    34.5        21.9
879      1978    Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation               -     4.5         2.8
949      1979    Burma   Forestry II                         -    35.0        27.1
958      1979    Burma   Telecommunications II               -    35.0        31.1
1031      1980    Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam              -    90.0        78.2
Total                                           33.1   362.3
of which has been repaid                      33.1        -
Total now outstanding                              -   362.3
Amount sold                        2.7
of which has been repaid         2.7             -
Total now held by Bank & IDA a/                    -   362.3
Total Undisbursed                                       177.2      177.2
Total Disbursed                                         185.1
a! Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-24-               ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS EXPRESSED IN SDR (As of March 31, 1982)
Amount in SDR Million
(less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose              Original   Undisbursed
1092      1981    Burma      Grain Storage                 17.9         17.9
1114      1981    Burma      Wood Industries I             25.8         25.8
Total                                            43.7
of which has been repaid                        0.0
Total now outstanding                            43.7
Total now held by IDA                            43.7
Total Undisbursed                                             43.7
C. Statement of IFC Investments
None



-25-               ANNEX II
Page 3
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of March 31, 1982) 1/
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21, 1974;
Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets (300 g.p.m.) and accessories
was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Industries Corporation. All of these
units have been sold to farmers in the project area. Favorable costs on
various components of the project have been sufficient to permit the purchase
of 3,000 additional low-lift pumps. All of these units have already been sold
to farmers. The construction of four jute baling plants is nearly completed.
Some 550 units of construction equipment were rehabilitated under the
equipment repair program. A reasonable inventory of spare parts remains for
future maintenance. The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments
and drainage channels has been completed. The Closing Date of the Credit has
been extended from March 31, 1980, to April 30, 1981, in order to allow for
completion of disbursements covering consulting services for the preparation
of final design and specifications for the Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
Project implementation is essentially complete. All major sawmill
rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Log production, from
projected area in FY79/80, is well over the target for teak and on target for
hardwood. Teak extraction for the year ending March 31, 1980, totalled
127,000 HT (target 100,000 HT) and hardwood extraction of 100,000 HT (on
target). Project productivity and profitability are most satisfactory.
Project is extended until September 30, 1982, to facilitate the procurement
of remaining equipment and spare parts.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-26-               ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30, 1975;
Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The contract for the planning, supply, erection and commissioning of
the Rangoon Milk Plant was awarded to Alfa-Laval of Sweden for a total cost
of US$2.273 million. Civil works construction is proceeding satisfactorily
and estimated completed date of the plant is June 1983. GOB will request an
overall reallocation of credit funds and an amendment of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to increase the relending limit to LDMC. LDMC continues to
concentrate its efforts on the farm at Pyinmabin.  The Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Science Department continues to perform its functions under the
project satisfactorily. The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Science has started the phased transfer of its facilities to the new campus
at Yezin but the recruitment of consultant lecturers and its fellowship
training program still lags behind schedule. Completion date of the project
has been extended to June 1983.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project has suffered about two years delay due to late procurement
of construction equipment at the outset of implementation. Construction
progress has been satisfactory since the arrival of this equipment.
Approximately 66% of civil works have been completed. Land reclamation is
proceeding at a satisfactory rate, and it is estimated that some 31,000 ac
have been reclaimed, representing about 50% of the project target. The
hydrological investigations and mathematical modeling have been completed to
the extent specified and draft reports submitted, but it is now considered
desirable to extend the study to include the upper delta also. It is
anticipated that physical works under the project will be completed by May
1984.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Effective Date: March 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The execution of all the works and procurement of all the equipment
and services financed under the project have been completed satisfactorily
and the credit is now closed as scheduled. The Borrower has agreed to prepare
a draft PCR, which is expected soon.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
The dredge is in the process of start-up, having completed delivery
tests. Short-term operating plans for the dredge are being prepared by Mining



-27-              ANNEX II
Page 5
Corporation No. 2 (MC2). MC2 has taken measures to speed up procurement of
spare parts to avoid future delays of dredge operations, such as the mooring
winch motor which has resulted in a delay of about 4 months. In addition, MC2
has also increased its efforts in training by sending selected staff to
Malaysia. GOB advised the Bank it would let us know at the earliest how they
wish to utilize $200,000 allocated for a sector study.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date:  February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Procurement, civil works, applied research, seed production, and seed
quality control continue to make satisfactory progress. Staff is now 88% of
full strength and is adequate until the seed processing plants are completed.
The proposal to make temporary staff appointments permanent is now with the
Council of State. Overseas training is gaining momentum but the project will
probably have to be extended by one year, possibly 18 months, to accommodate
previous delays. Land development has been a problem because of the
non-availability of suitable equipment, but remedial measures are being taken.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The project is proceeding broadly according to schedule.
Approximately 16% of the civil works have been completed, including one
sub-project area (Bawchaung) which is nearing completion. Land reclamation
is proceeding at a satisfactory rate, and it is estimated that some 17,000
acres have been reclaimed, representing about 35% of the project target. The
allocation of reclaimed land for settlement is awaiting completion of the
necessary surveys, and is a little delayed. The agricultural extension
service and other components of the project are progressing satisfactorily.
It is expected that the physical works of the project will be completed on
schedule in June 1986.
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The rehabilitation of the GOB rubber estates is proceeding very well.
The pace of implementation has recovered from the unfortunate death of the
general manager in 1980. The new general manager, appointed in September
1980, is an experienced and dynamic manager capable of motivating the
management team. Rubber plantings in the 1980/81 seasons exceeded the target.
The civil works program after two years is only three months behind schedule.
Disbursements plus commitments total approximately $1 million versus the SAR
estimate of $1.9 million for the same period. GOB has agreed to proceed with
the conversion of the crumb rubber factory into a 20 T/D crumb mill processing



-28-             kNNEX II
Page 6
scrap. GOB will request a reallocation of the Credit to provide adequate
funds for the plant conversion. They will also request an extension of the
Credit closing date to allow for completion of the plant conversion and also
consolidate and upgrade the plantations to achieve target acreage. The Rubber
Section is now preparing the second phase of the project, and a Bank mission
is scheduled to visit Burma in May 1982.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II (East Pegu Yoma) Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Production targets for 1980/81 have been attained. Procurement is
behind the SAR schedule. However, in view of the total amount committed
currently a substantial improvement on procurement is expected.
Rehabilitation of the existing sawmills and the construction of new sawmills
are progressing satisfactorily. The current shortage of staff is expected to
be remedied shortly, following the removal of government's ban on recruitment.
Cr. No. 958    Second Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1984
The project, after a slow start caused by delay in the creation of
the project implementation unit and consequent delays in procurement action,
is now picking up momentum. Overall the project is expected to suffer a delay
of a year and a half. Financial results continue to be satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1031   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project; US$90.0 Million
Credit of November 4, 980; Effective Date: November 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Credit was signed in Rangoon on November 4, 1980, and declared
effective on November 19, 1980. The ICB civil works contract was signed by
GOB and Hyundai on June 24, 1981. A contract was also signed with Lahmeyer
International (FRG) in January 1981 for consulting services for definite
design and construction supervision on dam, powerhouse, and appurtenant
structures. The progress of works under the civil works contract is to
schedule. Labor camp, workshops, stores, contractors camp, site roads and
diversion tunnel excavation already completed; and the coffer dam under
construction. The selection of consultants for Irrigation Works Component not
yet finalized by the Irrigation Department (ID) while negotiations for
consultants for analysis of risks and related insurance are in progress with
Risk Planning Group, and list of selected candidates for short-term
specialists being finalized by Agriculture Corporation. Delivery of equipment
(financed under Japanese assistance) expected by end-1982. Contracts have
recently been signed for (i) hydraulic steel structures (Lots 2A and 2B) with
Zschokke Wartmann and Noell respectively, and (ii) mechanical equipment Lot 3
with Voith. Contract for electrical equipment Lot 4 is being negotiated with



-29-              ANNEX II
Page 7
Siemens. Tender specifications for Transmission Lines Lot 5 have been
completed and contractors prequalified. Access Road construction (earthwork)
to dam site has been completed (bridges under construction) and road is in use
for services.  Construction of camp for project staff at Myittha is almost to
schedule, over 500 staff quarters and headquarter offices have been completed.
Cr. No. 1092   Grain Storage Project; SDRs 17.9 Million Credit of February 6,
1981; Effective Date: May 4, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
A Project Implementation Unit has been established within AFPTC and a
Project Coordinator has been assigned in CC to coordinate civil works aspects
of the new storage construction. A Project Coordination Committee has been
established to ensure effective overall coordination in project
implementation.
Consultants have been employed to assist AFPTC in planning and
implementing procurement of prefabricated steel structures and mechanical
handling equipment. Tender documents are being finalized. Construction of
foundations for first set of godowns is underway.
Cr. No. 1114   Wood Industries I Project; SDRs 25.8 Million Credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 25, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project was prepared by the Timber Corporation with assistance
from the FAO/CP. The project was appraised in June 1980. FINNIDA is
co-financing the technical assistance and training component of the project
(about $2.0 million). An IDA Credit ($32 million) was approved by the Board
on March 17, 1981, and was signed on March 26, 1981. The Credit became
effective on June 25, 1981. The Grant Agreement between Burma and Finland and
the Memorandum of Agreement between IDA and Finland were signed on
November 23, 1981. Project procurement is on schedule. Most of the equipment
for plywood mills and the furniture factory have been ordered.



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the Project
12 months
(b)  Agencies preparing the Project
The Construction Corporation
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association
January, 1981
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission
November, 1981
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations
April 9, 1982
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness
September 1, 1982
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) The Government will, by October 1, 1982, make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to enable
CC to carry out the Associated Work Program (para 41);
(b) The Government will, by October 1, 1982, establish an
adequately staffed Project Cell within CC to assist
with the control and execution of the project (para 41);
(c) The Government will conclude, not later than December 31,
1982, a contract of employment with a consultancy firm on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to undertake
technical assistance (para 43); and
(d) The Government would provide funds, on an adequate and
timely basis, for the project and the Associated Works
Program (para 46).



I
I
I



g  7;775F                      2                                                                                                                                                   >z--V ;           ; 
1t  I        -
-19 1  -   -  -      -                   .                t        W                - d  , .         J  .           t   ..-.......   -' r
2 0   o mF<   < 2 2             C                                             . -T
|    0 :t   r0                                                                                                                            . i                           2   ;        3010:D 5    
2S                         -               <   >< <2 F$ 2~                              tg    Nb                           <  X                        ; z2
1~ 'rKa^'- <>                  -                             2
 s '; * J X +< t) ~~>2   >                          .< G  
,                              t      O ~               2                                                                                           05   g rU  T\ - 
6UZ91 ausql



