Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFRCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7210
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1558-CO)
April 20, 1988
Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
|This document has a restricted distributioo and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
I  a.! Ij    .Iv  4         '      ' k  *     W              I *w4  dian



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP            Ranco Popular
CAIP          Integrated Preschool Care and Nutrition Center
CDV           Centro de Desarrollo Vecinal (subsequentlv renamed
CIP - Centro de Integracion Popular)
CFP           Corporacion Financiera Popular
CT-           Centro de Investigaciones de Administracion Publica
CULDEPORTES   Instituto Colombiano de la Juventud y el Deporte
COLCULTURA    Instituto Colomblano de Culturs
DANCOOP       Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Cooperativas
DNP           Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
DRI           Integrated Rural Development Project
ESAP          Escuela Superior de Administracion Publica
ICRF          Instituto Colombiano de Rienestar Familiar
ICCE          Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Vscolares
ICT           Instituto de Credito Territorial
INSFOPAL      Instituto Nacional de Pomento Municipal
IPC           Programa de Integracion de Serviclos y
Participacion Comunitaria
MAC           Basic Module of Health Care
MEN           Ministerio de Educacion Nacional
MINSALUD      MiniRterio de Salud Publica
PAN           National Nutrition Program
SENA          Servicio Nacional de Aprendizale
SIP           Secretaria de Tntegracion Popular
SuperCoop     Superintendencia Nacional de Cooperativas



MRl OmcICAL UK ONLY
THE WONtO SANK
Wash.ntont. .C.2O l3
U.S.A.
Ol6e. d Dwtnrwa
CWeof 0msw ieaw#u,A
April 20, 1988
MEMORAIMDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Colombia
Urban Development Project (Loan 1558-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Colombia Urban Development Project (Loan
1558-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
Further evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
| This document has a restricted disribution and may be used by reipiets only in the psrforma_e
of their officil duties Its contents .y not otherwis be disclosed witbout World Bank muthoutio.



FI OFfICIAL U8 ONLY
PROJECT CCOK.TION REPORT
URBN DU VELOPHENT PROJECT
LOAN 2558-CO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paxe No.
Prefac-***                                                                 I................................ 
B-sic Dat-                                Shet .................................
Highlights .......................................... .......... ...       v
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AID APPRAISAL ..........        2
Preparation, Appraisal, and Negtoiations................        2
Principal Objectiv    ......................................    3
Project D4scription                ......................       4
Conditions *nd Covenants  ......................         .      4
II. IM PLENTATION.... .            . ..*** ............ 00.......        4
Effectiveness and Start-Up             .......                  4
Revisions ..................... .................................  5
Implementation Schedule .......................... *.......     6
7
Performance of Contractors end COSUtnt......................    8
Reporting .......................................................
Project Achievements  ..............................            8
IV.  FINANCIAL PERFORANCE ............. .........................      11
Project Cost ...............      .... ................... 11
Sources of Finance ......................................      12
13
Co0t Recov ry            .....................                 13
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION................ .............. .......        14
14
15
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORI4ANCE .........................0.......        15
VII.  BANK PERFORMANLE.....................                              16
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ............................       17
Overall Performance ..........                                 17
Lessons Learned.........................................       17
This document ha a rstiedditibudon nd may be usd by recipientsoy In te pfomance
of their offc duti its contents way not otewise be disksed whout Word Dank authorIzton.



Table of Contents (cont'd.)
PMte No.
TABLES
1.    Implementation Schedules Appraisal vs. Actu-l..............       19
2.    Physical Achievement .......................................      20
3.    Total Project                           Cot..............................21
4.     Sources of Finance..........................................     23
5.     Schedule of Disbursements ...................................    24
6.    Disbursement Allocations ............... .....0............       25
7.    Anticipated and Actual Price Increases During
the Project Implementation Period........................     27
8.    Cost Recovery - Shelter Components..........................      28
9.    Cost Recovery - Water Supply end Sewerage Component .........    29
10.    Social Achievements .........................................   30
11.   ReestSmation of the IERR for Sites and Services
Investments:  The Case ofPerera........................      32
12.   Reestimation of the IERR for Water Supply
Distribution Investments: The Case of Pereira.**........      33
13.   Implementation Responsibilities .............................    34
ANNEXES
1.    Project Components as Appraised, Revised and Implemented....     35
2.    Borrower's Compliance vith Key Loan Covenants..............e .   38
FIGURES
1.    Administrative Organization of the IPC Pror.        . .          39
2.    SIP's  Organizational Chart..................................    40



,(i)
COLOSBIA - LOAN 1558-CO
URBAN DEVELOPMDNT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Urban
Development Project, which was partially financed by Loan 1558-CO, in the
amount of US$24.8 million, of which US$18.0 million was used in this
project and US$6.8 mlIlion was reallocated to the Popayan Reconstruction
Project. The Borrower was the Government of Columbia, which transferred
the funds, through the national treasury, to the following project
executive agenciess DNP, MEN, MINSALUD, ICT, ICCE, ICBF, CPP, SENA,
INSFOPAL and SIP. The PCR was prepared by the former Urban Project
Division of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office, based on
information in the Bank files, a Final Project Report prepared by the
Borrower, discussions with staff of the Bank and the Borrower and visits to
the field.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following normal procedures, tED sent copies of the draft report
to the Government and the Executing Agency for cov_ents; however, none were
received.



(ii)
PROJECT COWPIZTI(W REPORT
COIZIA
URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
(LOAN i55s 0)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Apdrai*al Actual or
Itewm                                                  Estimate   Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million)                           62.0          65,9
Underrun or Overrun (2) a/                                                6.3 overrvu
Loan Amount (USS uillionY                                  24.8          24.R
Disburoed                                                           18.o
Reallocated h/                                                       6.R
Cancelled                                                             -
Date Physical Components Complete                       17/31/1981   12131/1983
Proportion Completed hy above date (2) c/                   30            95
Tine Overrun (2)                                                          55
Financial Performance                                          Moderate Problems
I3ntitutional Performance                                      Moderate Problems
Economic Rate of Return (2)                                 10            10
Shelter Components
Water Supply Component                                 10            10
a/ In relation to adjusted project cost of US$63.9 million cost overrun was 32.
T/ Loan balance allocated to Popavan Reconstruction Project - Loan 2379-CO.
c/ 952 based on adjusted physical targets and appraisal targets due to increase
In water supply component under adjusted scope.
STAFF INPUT
(Staff Weeks/FY)
1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  Total
Identification-
Preparation   17.0  38.0                                                        55.0
Appraisal/
Negotiations         61.1  35.2                                                 96.4
Supervision                    .7  40.2  56.5  46.9  31.6  1%l.n  13.7   4.R  209.4
Total       17.0  99.1  35.4  40.2  56.5  46.9  31.6  15.0  13.7   4.8  360.7
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATFD AND ACTUAL DISBURSE1ENTS
(ITS$ million)
FY/79   FY/80   FY/R1   PP/R2   PY/83   fY/fl4   FY/R5
(i) Estimated             7.1    13.5    19.7    24.R
(it) Actual                         0.7      1.9     5.1    10.6    14.6   18.0
X of (II) to (i)                    %.2      9.6    20.6    42.7  58.9       72.6 a/
a/ Excludes US$6.8 million allocA,ed to Popayan Reconstruction Project - Loan
2379-CO.



(i11)
Other Project Data
Item                                       Original Plan     Act-ual
First mutioned In Files/Tiuetable                            04/08/7R
Government Application                                       09/03/75
Appra sal                                  07176 a/             02/77
Negotiations                               11/29/77          02/28/78
Board Approval                             01/17/78 h/       04/22/78
Loan Agreement Date                                          07/21/78
Effectiveness Date                                           12/01/78
Closing Date c/                            06/30/R2          12/31/84
Borrover                                   Government of     Government of
Colombia          Colombla
Executing Agencies                         DNP, MEN,         DNP, MEN,
MINSALUD,         NINSALUD,
ICT, ICCE, ICBF   ICT, ICCE, ICBF,
CFP, SENA,        CFP, SENA,
INSFOPAL, SIP     INSFOPAL, SIP
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                      Jen.1 - Dec. 31
Follow-on Project                                            Cartagena nrban
Development(1694-CO)
Popayen Region
Earthquake
Reconstruction
Project (2379-CO)
a/ Revised to 01/77 in First Project Brief dated 10/26/76.
b/ Originally scheduled for FY77. After postappraisal mission, Board date was
revised and set for 01/17/78.
c/ Closing date extended to allow use of funds transferred to Popayan
Reconstruction component. However the above date reflects the closing of
disbursements for the urban development component, oblect of this report.



(IV)
Mission Data
Staff   Date of  Performance Types of
Mo/Year  No. Weeks  No Persons  Weeks   Report   Rating         Problem
Identiflcation
04/75      1             2         2     04/29/75
Preparation
09/75(*)   1             3         3     10/10/75
02/76(*)   2.5           2         5     03/23/76
05/76      2             4         7     06/11/76
07/76      3             5        11     09/16/76
12/16(*)   2             2        4      01/04/76
Appraisal
02/77      3             7       21      03/22/77
05/77      2             5         7     06/21/77
09/77(*)   1             1         1     09/28/77
Supervision
07/78      3             4        11     08/18/78        1 I
11/78      2             2        4      12/12/78        2      M
01/79      2             3         5     n2/22/79        2      M
05/79      3             1        3      06/29/79        2      M,T
08/79      2             5        10     09/20/79        2      M
10/79      1             1         1     11/21/79        -      -
12/79      2             4        7      02/12/80        2      M,F
06/80      2             4         7     06/25/80        3      F,M,P
10/80      2             4        6      11/03/80        3      F,M.T,P
04/81      2             4         7     04/27/81        3      M,T
06/81      1.3           3        4      07/27/81        -      -
01/82      1.3           2         3     02/01/82        2      M,O
04/82      1             2        2      04/30/82        2      _
07/82      1             1         1     08/25/82        2      P,F
12/82      1.6           2        3      12/17/82        2      F
09/83      1             1         1     09/30/83        2      P
05/84      1             1         1     06/15/84        1      F
05/85(**)  @             1         1     06/11/85        3      M,O
TOTAL   27 missions                        138
* Combined with preparation of Loan 1694-CO
** Combined with supervision of Loan 2379-CO



(v)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1558-CO)
HIGHILIGHITS
The project has attained practically all its social objectives,
having Improved the levels of education, health, nutrition, and marketable
skills of family members belonging to the lower half of the urban income
distribution in a scale that corresponds approximately to one fourth of the
population of the 23 project cities. It reached or surpassed the physical
targets for all project components.   The project was less successful in
achieving Its financial goals and long term Institutional objectives, and
faces uncertainties with respect to its replicability and sustainability
over time.
The Institutional coordination difficulties the project faced
throughout the Implementation period could have been more manageable if the
project had been designed to include fewer clties and fewer project compo-
nents. This would have also possibly allowed a better integration of local
municipal governments into project design and the eventual transfer of the
responsibility for the operation of the project financed facilities (i.e.
Community Facilities and Servlces Centers - CDVs) which was not envisaged
and are therefore, still being administered by the Cen.tral Government.
Moreover, sustained community participation in most project zones appears
to depend on central governments funds suggesting a pattern far removed
from  the original idea of community managed programs.   Also,  a more
thorough assessment of the management capacities of the executing agencies
such as INSFOPAL and ICT at the time of appraisal could perhaps have
identified better their institutional weaknesses and through corrective
actions under the project could have strengthened thelr respective capaci-
ties and performance.
The project was envisaged as a first phase of implementation of
a national program for the integrated provision of services and community
participation (Programa de Integracion de Servicios y Participacion Comuni-
taria - IPC), and was to provide the Borrower with the means of refining
that program and ensuring its sustained cost effectiveness as coverage
expanded. This objective has not been attained because the project falled
to develop: adequate management information system and Impact evaluation
measures that would give a solid basis for future program choicee; adequate
cost recovery in shelter and water supply components, Implying a much
higher level of national subsidization; and, satisfactory arrangements for
the administration and operation of the Community Facilities and Services
Centers.   The less than adequate financial performance of the project
raises questions beyond the relative compliance with Loan covenants. The
history of the project suggests that in order to carry out multi-sectoral
programs at the local level, the habitual budgetting and programming
programs of the country had to be disturbed and changed.



PROJECT CO(PLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVEOPMENT PFRECT
(LOAN 1558-CO
I T INTRODUCTION
1.01        Loan 1558-CO financed an integrated urban development project
which provided, in a concerted and focussed manner, social services,
credit, and infrastructure to a large group of low income households In 23
medium size cities.   The project also provided technical assistance and
training to Increase employment and productivity among the target popula-
tion.   The Bank loan of US$24.8 million was made to the Government of
Colombia. Project funds were transferred, tbrough the national treasury,
to nine project executing atencies. Four agencies, namely Servicio Nacio-
nal de Aprendizaje (SENA), Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
(ICBF), Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT) and the Banco Popular,
financed a total of 45Z (US$29.4 million) of the project costs. The share
of the National Government was 282 (US$18.6 m'llion) and the disbursed
amount from the Bank Loan (US$18.0 million) financed 272 of total project
costs of US$65.9 million. US$6.8 million of the Bank Loan was reallocated
to the Popayan Reconstruction Project (Loan 2379-CO) in August 1984.
1.02        The justification for the project rested on urbanization and
income disttribution trends observed in Colombia In the mid 1970s.  This
urbanization pattern was already evident in 1973 when half of the 12.6
million urban dwellers llved In cities other than the four major metropoli-
tan areas of Bogota, Medellin, Call, and Rarranquilles High rates of popu-
lation growth In intermediate cities reflected rapid rural to urban digra-
tion and created deficits of urban infrastructure, housing, and social
services that were particularly severe In low-income neighborhoods. On the
other hand, although Colombia experienced impressive economic growth during
the 1964-1974 period, when GDP grew by an average of 6.52 per annum in real
terms, by the mid-1970s the pace of growth had slowed and unemployment
increased, especially In urban areas. These trends heightened governmental
awareness and prompted the administration which took office in 1974 to
launch programs to improve the welfare of the poorest families. One such
program was the national program for Integrated provision of services and
community participation, the Programa de Integracion de Servicios y
Participacion Comunitaria (IPC). A new agency was created In the Office of
the Presidency, the Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) to coordinate
the program. Both the IPC and SIP were ratified by Presidential Decree in
January 1977.
1.03      This report is based on information in the proiect file, includ-
ing a completion report prepared by the Borrower, and on additional data,
Interviews, and field visits.



-2-
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Preparotion, Appraisal and Negotiations
2.01        The project was prepared by the National Planning Department
(DNP) in consultation with the sectoral agencies and the participating
communities. Bank assistance in this process began in 1975 and contributc-
to broadening the scope of the program and phasing its implementation.l/
The selection of the project cities was based on a study done by DNP Tn
which 58 cities were ranked as to the incidence of urban poverty, popula-
tion jrowth rate, and public service needs.   The 23 cities eventually
Included In the project exhibited high rates in all these three dimen-
sions.  The project was appraised on the basis of prefeasihility studies
conducted in 6 project zones, on technical standards and prototype models
of facilities furnished by each sectoral agency, and on preliminary studies
of the remaining 17 cities2/.   At the time of appraisal, SIP was newly
created and had but miniiail participation in the project preparation
process.  The appraisal mission focussed on the evaluation of the program
model, and several project preparation tasks were left to the implementa-
tion phase. This in part explains the difficulties encountered during the
start-up phase of the proiect.   Two postappraisal misslons, in May and
September of 1977, were necessary to complete preparation of the water
supply component, finish the implementation plans for the first 6 zones,
clarify a number of inetitutional issues including the choice of the
project coordinating agency.3/
1/ At first project design was limited to the provision of community
services in the target neighborhoods through community development
centers (CDVs). With regard to programming, the national program was
initially a 3-year investment program covering 44 neighborhoods in
several medium sized cities and del,srtmental capitals. After reviewing
its financial implications, DNP decided that the program had to be
phased into implementation periods of 3 to 4 years, each serving a
smaller number of neighborhoods.  The first phase corresponds to the
present project in 23 cities; the second phase to the Cartagena
Southeast Zone Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1694-CO) and the third
phase would extend the program to the remaining cities.
/ The zones, object of prefeasibility studies were Armenia, Cartago,
Cucuta I, Pereira I, Girardot and Villavicencio.
3/ The first proposal from the Borrower was to divide project coordination
between DNP and SIP, DNP being responsible for the physical and the
environmental  components  and  SIP  for  the  rest.    After  the Bank
expressed its preference to relate to a single coordinating agency, the
Borrower selected SIP to perform this function.



2.02       There were deliberations within the Bank regarding the best was
to reconcile the urban project with other operations that overlapped In
time and space in the water supplv and small scale Industry sectors.4/
Concerning the employment and productivity componenca, deliberations withTn
the Bank centered on the issue of the volume of Industrial activity in some
project cities that was too swall to justify vocational training and credit
operations, suggesting that it would be unwise to insist on minimum lending
and training targets per city.5/  This highlighted the need for ensutring
that all executing agencies have full responsibility for implementation of
their respective components and adjustments thereof, as well as for system-
atic project monitoring and evaluation.  Other lnstituttional arrangements
disciussed, pertained to the ootentiai overburden of sectoral agencies by
the simultaneous execution of varlous externally financed operations, which
was considered a risk.  The Inexperience of SIP and the location of that
agency at the Presidency was also considered a risk.
2.03        Negotiations scheduled for November of 1977, were postponed at
the renuest of the Borrower until certain issues were resolved to the
satisfaction of the Ministry of Finance. These Issues were: (1) budgetary
mechanisms for funding project expenditures and procedures for submitting
loan disbursement applications to the Bank; (it) agreement on draft project
contracts between sIP and the participating agencies; (11i) Improvements of
SIP's managerial capacity through appointment of a technical director; (iv)
clarification of required contents of area Implementation plans. Negotla-
tions took place in February, 1478 In Washington, n.C, and Board presenta-
tion on April 22, 1978.
Principal Objectives
2.04        The maior objective of the prolect was to improve the living
standards and productive capacity of about 550,00n Colombians living In
relative poverty in 23 citles throughout the country.6/  Strengthening the
managerial capacity of SIP and of participating agencies to plan and
execute the program was a second lmportant Project objective. Although the
project does not include a technical assistance component with this aim,
operational expenses incurred in biripg and training project staff for key
executing agencies were considered integral part of the project cost. The
third important objective was that the project would enable the Gove-nment,
through systematic monitoring and evaluation, to refine the IPC program and
assure Its sustained cotit effectiveness as coverage expanded, both during
the life of the project and thereafter.
4/  The Second Small Scale Industry Project (loan 1451-CO) overlanped with
the urban project In Pereira, Cucuta, Ibague, Pasto, Bicaramanga,
Armenia and Manizales.   The Water Supply loans P60-CO and 1072-CO
covered 15 cities of which only two were not also Part of the urban
project. The overlapping cities were: Cucuta, Villavicencio, Armenia,
Manizales, Neiva, Pereira, Tulua, Santa Marts, Ibague, Pasto, and
Valledupar.
5/  See commeats on  he Yellow Cover Appraisal Report made by J.T. Rentley,
IBR1, 04 dated 08/12,1977.
6/ See, IBRD, SAR-Colombia, Urban Development Project, April 10,. 1q78,
p.l0.



-4-
Pro,ect Description7/
2.05      Loan 1558-CO included investments in 27 zones located in 23
cities covering the following subprojects: (1) improved social services,
including the construction of and equipment for comunity development
centers, primary schools, health centers, and child and family welfare
centers (CAIPs), as well as training of teachers, community health and
child welfare social workers; (it) increased employment and productivity
including managerial assistance for promotion and organization of private
and cooperative enterprises, vocational training programs, and credit to
small scale Industries; (iii) physical and environmental Improvements,
including area upgrading through the regularization of land tenure, credits
for neighborhood and home Improvement loans, sites and services develop-
ment, and basic infrastructure services such as water and sewerage; and
(iv) project management and evaluation, lncluding strengthening the imple-
menting agencies by financing appropriate studies and surveys; and
strengthening the coordinating agency by funding initial operating expenses
and training programs so that It would he hetter able to monitor, evaluate
and refine the project.
Conditions and Covenants8/
2.06      The covenants negotiated reflected the importance of:  the timely
and sufficient provision of counterpart funds by the Borrower and the
project entities; the effective recovery of water supply, housing and small
scale industry credit costs; and, the sustained Institutional support for
the project. Specific loan covenants also established that general guid-
ance to the program was to be provided by a National Council formed by
representatives of DNP, SIP, and the participating agencies and that
monitoring and evaluation would he by SIP.
2.07      The conditions of effectiveness were signing of the agreement
between Banco Popular and CFP; and signing of the agreements between the
Government and the other project entities and between SIP and the other
participating ministries. In addition, a condition of disbursement in each
project zone was completion of the implementation plan for the respective
zone satisfactory tc the Bank.
III. IMPLEMRNTATION
Effectiveness and Start-Up
3.01      The project was declared effective December 12, 1978, with about
two months delay. Conditions of disbursement were met only after signifi-
cant delays because of SIP's inability to complete Area Implementation
Plans (AIPs) satisfactory to the Bank. The first 16 AIPs were approved in
1979, about one year after the loan became effective. One plan was approv-
ed in 1981, and the remaining 6 plans were approved only in 1982.
7/ Detailed project description is given in Annex I.
8/ Major Loan Covenants are listed In Annex II.



3.02        After effectiveness, all project execucing agencies with  the
exception of SENA and -- to a lesser extent, TCT in the CDV component, were
slow to begln project execution. The reasons for the initial delays were
Interrelated, namely: the project's extensive geographical coverage; the
large number of proiect executlng agencies; inadenuate budgetary support;
inexperienced staff and hlgh staff turnover at SIP; political constraints
derived, ln part, from SIP's location In the Office of the Presidency; and
lack of understanding about the contents of the project at the local
level.9/  Detailed engineering for water supply iavestments did not start
until Tate 1979.  The contracts for the first CDVs were negotiated by ICT
on the hasis of preliminary designs, not adjusted to the sites, causing
construction delays and serious construction defects that required exten-
sive repalrs and, in Girardot, the total reconstruction of the facility.
The loan from Banco Popular to CFP was signed but not disbursed until
mid-1980.   Reliable financial and physical progress reports were lacking
because SIP had not been able to establish and maintain systematic manage-
ment Information systems prior to mid-1980.  As a result, by June, 1980,
almost two years after Loan effectiveness, an estliated 12% of total
project investments had been completed, compared to 442 projected at
appraisal.   Disbursements of the Rank loan were even less,  totalling
US$0.75 million, or 52 of the appraisal estimate.   Implementation delays
and the several dilfficulties encountered during this period,  prompted
discussions between the Rorrower and the BAnk regarding the eventual revi-
sion of the scope, content, and schedule of execution of the project.
Deliberations on these issues started during the second half of 1980,
lasted through 19R1, and were concluded in early I9R2.
Revisions
3.03        Many of the components under the project were sirnificantly
revised in May 1982 (Annex I).10/  Delays in finalizing project revision.
were caused by difficulties in prrogramming each component in the absence
of adequate data, the need to complete detailed engineerlng for the water
supply component, and the time required to revise all project agreements
between SIP and the executing agencies and between INSFOPAL and the Munici-
pal Empresas.'1/ The revisions made did not substantially alter the scope
of the proiect given that the number of components and cities remained
unchanged and only four subsidiary project zones were eliminated. However,
9/ During the start-up period of project Implementation, from mid-1978 to
November, 1Q80, SIP's director changed five times each time occasioning
also the change of key central staff.
10/ As per Amendment to the Loan Agreement, formelized by letter dated May
13, 1982.
11/ The revision of physical and financlal targets for each component were
based on:   (i) more realistic demand figures by city provided by
project executing agencies; (ii) improved cost estimates and investment
schedules whict. resulted from the completion of detailed engineering
for the water supply component; (iii) the demonstrated implementation
capacity of project executing agencies and limitations thereof;   and
(iv) cost increases affecting contracts for civil works, equlpient
supply, and professional staff salaries, whlch resulted from domestic
inflation In excess of appraisal projections.



--
the revlslons altered the physical and financial targets of almost all
components and provided for additional strengthening of SIP and for provi-
sion of funds by the Natilonal Oovernment and the project entities.1Z/ The
substantlal reduction In the houslng couponents wea prompted by the labil-
Ity of ICT to liplement the components efficlently In sose project cities,
that In turn was associated with Inadequate funding and stafflng of ICT
local offices.   The Increase in water supply Investments reflected the
higher politlcal priorlty attached to urban infrastructure at the tle, as
well as progress made by INSFOPAL In procurement of supplies and engineer-
ing.   Only one change proposed by the Borrower was not approved by the
Bank, and that was the introduction in the project of a water treatment
plant in Sahanalarga, disallowed because Its financial feasibllity was not
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Bank.  The Borrower and the Bank
were in agreement with respect to all other changes.
3.04      The above revisions resulted in addltional social benefits accru-
Ing from higher primary education and child care and nutrition service
levels as well as from expanded training programs carried out by SENA.  The
prolected additional benefits resulting from the increment In water supply
investments, were only fully realized two years after Project completion
due to execution delays which affected the installation of domestic water
connections in 10 of the 21 cities where water supply investments were
made. In retrospect, project adjustments could have been more effective by
also addressing the project's excessively large and dlspersed geographical
scope; the long-term arrangements for the operation and maintenance of CDV
facilities; and by Insisting on the application of cost effectiveness and
financial viability criteria to key project programming decisions.
3.05       A second revision of the project occurred In 19i4, when savings
of US$6.8 million of the Loan was reallocated to the Popavan Reconstruction
Project (Loan 2379-CO).13/  This reallocation was requested in March 31,
1984, in view of saviigsa resulting mainly from the devaluation of the
Colombian peso in relation to the dollar.
Implementation Schedule
3.06         The actual implementation schedule lagged far behind appraisal
projections during the first two vears of project execution. (Table 1).
Implementation also differed from appraisal in terms of the sequentlal
order of completion per city.   From Loan effectiveness, the prolect took
five years to reach full completion.   Disbursements were closed as of
December 31, 1984.  However, the Loan remained open until 1996 to allow
disbursements under the Popayan Reconstruction Project.
3.07       Although all project executing agencies experienced some diffi-
culty during inplementatlon of their respective components, most of them
were able to compensate for the initial delays and complete their part of
the project within the revised  schedule.   The exceptions  were:    (i)
INSFOPAL, which completed the water supply component two years after the
revised project completion date; (ii) ICT, which completed construction of
12/ Budgeting and transfer procedures were modified to ensure more adequate
and timely funding of project expenditures.
13/ See, IRRD Loan 155R-CO, Amending Loan Agreement, dated August 2, 1984.



-7-
the last two CDVs in San Andres and Riohacha only in 1984; and (iII) the
Ministry of Realth, which has not yet been able to train the number of
paramedical staff projected at appralsal.   Lack of adequate and timely
fundlng by the National Government contributed significantly to the
delays. However, delays were also due to administrative Inefficiency and
tardiness In the preparation of detailed engineering and contracts with
Munlelpal Water Companies, on the part of INSFOPAL.  Lack of appropriate
staff and management continuity, affected the performance of both IC!T and
INSFOPAL during the project life.   With regard to SIP, inedequate and
frequently changing higher management staff and the lack of experience in
coordinating multi-sectoral projects, adversely affected its implementation
monitoring ability during the first two years, suggesting that the modest
achievements of the project during that period were entirely due to the
implementation capacity of the project executing agencies.   Coordination
improved substantially with strengthened management and staffing of SIP
that occurred as of 1981. Rowever, the two vear delay in implementation
already accumulated was only in part compensated by the subsenuent acceler-
ation of project investments.
Procurement
3.08        The Borrower procured all Bank-financed goods and services in
accordance with Bank guidelines.  In line with appraisal expectations, most
contracts for civil works, furniture, supplies, and consulting services
were awarded to local firms.  Most equipment was purchased from foreign
suppliers.  INSFOPAL was able to save costs by procuring in bulk, at an
early phase of project implementation, pipes, fittings, and water meters
necessary for a suhstantial portion of the water supply component.  Seven
main supply contracts signed by INSFOPAL were awarded on the basis of
International competitive hidding between 1979 and 1981. Most civil works
contracts were awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding with the
exception of small works, especially for school renovation, which were
negotiated directly wlth local firms or, In the case of Municipal Empresas,
carried out by force account. Procurement procedures used in the water
supply component were cumbersome, requiring reviews by INSPOPAL, Municipal
Water Companies, and by the Bank.  In retrospect, procurement decisions
made by the Borrower and approved by the Bank with respect to ICT civil
works contracts for CDVs were unwise.14/   These contracts were awarded,
with Bank approval, without prior compThetion of detailed engineering and
soil analysis, through direct negotiations by ICT with local firms.  As a
result, the first 6 CDVs built suffered serious defects. The component in
general incurred in substantial cost overruns, delayed execution, and faul-
ty construction requiring extensive repairs. Correct procedures involving
local public bidding and standard bidding documents were iutroduced later
in connection with the construction of the last CDVs In 1983 and 1984.
14/ The Bank accepted ICT's judgement that reliable contractors would
be unlikely to bid competitively on construction contracts of the CDV
facilities in project areas. Therefore, contracts amounting to US$8.2
million, were carried out by ICT through the direct administration of
small local contractors chosen In accordance with ICT's tendering
procedures.  See, IBRD, SAR, op.cit.  Para. 5.17.



Performance of Contractors and Consultants
3.09         With the exception of the contractual problems described in
Para. 3.08 above, and the delays experlenced in finalizing contracts for
civil works and engineering for the water supply component, the performance
of consultants and contractors in the project was satisfactory.  Problems
encountered in the evaluation consulting contract cannot be attributed to
the consultant and are discussed In Para. 3.15 bPelow.
Reportlng
3.10         Timely, comprehensive and reliable reports were not received
during the first two years of project implementation. Guidance from Bank
supervision missions as to the selection of key indicators for project
monitortng -s 4off4ered to SIP only in 1980, two years after Loan effective-
ness.  Accounting procedures were substantially improved after 1Q80 but
remained less than adequate In the case of ICT, as indicated by the fact
that in December 1981, 65Z of ICT investments in sites and services and 35%
of its Investments in home improvement loans could not properly be account-
ed for. These accounting deficiencies also demonstrated inefficient finan-
cial management on the part of SIP during part of the project life. Audit-
ed accounts for all project entities were submitted to the Bank only after
considerable delay.
Project Achievements
3.11          The project achievements reached or surpassed the revised
targets set for almost all components.  Table 2 describes these achieve-
ments in detail and compares actual results with both the appraisal and the
revised program.15/ Only two cities, San Andres and Riohacha, failed to
attain full compTetion of the social services subproject. In all others,
community development centers, educational, health and child care and
nutrition facilities were built and equipped to appraisal standards or
higher, and were fully utilized by project completion date. With regard to
service levels attained, a deficiency is apparent In the area of health,
because only 25% of the paramedical staff programmed was in fact trained by
the Ministry of Health and Incorporated Into the project. These trained
staff, are working at the health centers and not In community outreach
programs as originally planned. Other variations in actual service provi-
sion adhere to the original obJectives of eacb subcomponent and are
described in detail In Annex I.
3.12          SIP actively promoted community participation at the local
level, but the results of these efforts were uneven. The community support
group created In each CDV failed to effect community management of the
program. Community groups that were already organized before the project
began, such as the neighborhood actlon committees (Juntas de Accion
Comunal), were often bypassed In favor of new groups directly organized by
SIP.   Among the groups organized by SIP, those that received funds for
specific activities tended to function best, as for example the sports
committees. In cities where the community has participated intensively, as
15/ City specific achievements are given in the Borrower's Project
Completion Report, available in the project file.



-9-
for Instance in CLicuta and In Pereira, some of these specialized groups
were able to mobilize addltional financial resources for the program.1 /
In the most successful cities, comunity participation led to improvements
In the relationships between mnmicipal authorities and SIP's local staff.
3.13       The less than expected disbursements of small scale enterprise
loans reflects, in part, lower actual demand for such loans, given the
small size of the industrial sector in some of the project cities. On the
other hand, CFP had difficulty in lending in cities where it did not have
an office. Furthermore, because CFP cannot lend for service and commercial
enterprises and requires collateral for all its loans, several small scale
entirprises in the project areas did not qualify for the credit program.
Partial Improvement occurred when a National Loan Guarantee Fund was made
available for use as collateral for CFP loans. The performance of SENA's
vocational and managerial courses was impressive on several counts:  the
early start of this activity and its consistent progress during project
limplemwntation; the ability to adjust course programs to local needs; and
the results achieved In terms of number of graduates was 30% higher than
the revised targets and more than twice the appraisal proJections. However,
because SENA did not undertake tracer studies of graduates, It is not
possible to ascertain the exact employment impact of this program. Never-
theless, adjustments made in course content during implementation Indicate
that SENA qualitatively monitored the local labor market and the relevance
of its courses and labor demand.   Finally, the experimental cooperative
program was the least successful as it did not generate formation of any
self-sufficient cooperative.
3.14       She physical and environmental improvements subproject achieved
the revised targets for housing. On the other hand, the land tenure regu-
larization component was not implemented, since the regularization of land
tenure is the responsibility of municipal governments and not of ICT. The
reduction of targets for land tenure regularlzation made in 1982, did not
resolve the problem because ICT was unable to hire the legal and survey
staff required to effectively assist municipal governments in this
respect. As a result, the property titles issued to project beneficiaries
were obtained through their own effort and expense.   In the water supply
component, the revised targets for investments in water distribution
systems, special works, and household metered connections in 21 cities were
attained in 11 cities by December 1983 and in the remaining 10 cities by
1985.  This less than satisfactory performance by INSFOPAL and Municipal
Empresas affected more severely the subprojects carried out in Santa Marta,
Riohacha and San Andres which began during the last year of project imple-
mentation. Sewerage investments, although mentioned in the appraisal, were
not in fact programmed.   Nevertheless, extensions to sewerage collection
16/ Typically, SIP would organize specialized committees in the areas of
culture and sports; household improvements; production and employment;
and infrastructure. See Borrower's PCR, op.cit., in the project file.



-10-
networks benefitting project zones were made In two cities after water
investments were completed.17/
3.15         In contrast with the relatlvely high physical achievements of
the project, the performance of the evaluation component has been disap-
pointing.   The evaluation study Was subcontracted with Instituto SER, a
private research organization based in Bogota of excellent standing. The
actual contract and Its Initial funding however, were delayed and the first
three baseline surveys were carried out in project areas only in late
1980.   Flnancial constraints In SIP led  to the cancellation of this
consulting contract ohortly after the completion of the baseline surveys.
although the data collected In these surveys is useful to demonstrate that
the project has Indeed reached the poorest residents in each city and that
economic conditions in each city played an Important role In the success of
the employment and productivity components, the cancellation of the second
and third sets of surveys planned, meant that measures of change were never
undertaken.  As a result, the economic and social impacts of the project
cannot he systematically analyzed.18/
17/ See, INSPOPAL, Programia Zonas Marginales, Convenio 1558-C0/BIRF, Infor-
me de Avance, May 1986, In the project file.  The observed delays ln
the execution of this component might in part he attributable to over-
burden of INSFOPAL and the MunIcipal Empresas by the simultaneous
Implementation of other externally financed projects. For example, the
Third Medium Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
1726-CO) overlaps with the urban project in Riohacha, Cartago,
Sabanalarga, G.irardot, Ibamue, Neiva, Pasto and Sincelejo; arid IDB loau
for water supply Implemented during the same period, overlaps with the
urban project in Barrancabermela.
18/ The final evaluation report submitted by Instituto m is in the
project file. Also available is a paper by Dani Kaufmann, using data
collected in the baseline surveys, entitled, WA Study of Marginal Areas
within the Context of an Integrated nTrban Project:  The Case of Three
Cities Included In the Colombia I Urban Project - IPC", Draft, IBRD,
March 1981.



-11-
IV.  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Pro4ect Cost
4.01       Project costs are shown bv component In Table 3*19/  Total cost
exceeded the revised and the appraisal estimates by 6.3X ai; 6.42 respec-
tively. The original cost structure has changed in that both the revised
and the actual figures show a greater emphasis on social services. Higher
project management costs reflect the decision to strengthen project coordi-
nation through SIP. The relevant sumary figures are given helow.
ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED SHARE OF SUBPROJECTS IN TOTAL PROJECT COST
(in current prices)
Appraisal    Revised
Estimate     Estimate    Actual
SubproJects                           US$M   2     USSM   x    US$M   X
Social Services                       14.2  23     20.3  32    22.0  34
Employment and Productivity            7.8  12       8.0  12     8.3  12
Physical and Environmental
Improvements                        35.9  58     29.8  47    29.9  45
Project Management and
Evaluation                           4.1   7       5.8   9     5.7   9
Total                      62.0 100     63,9 100    65,9 100
4.02       For the components that experienced greater cost variances, an
analysis of unit costs indicates that ICT incurred signiflcant cost over-
runs in CDV construction and so did ICBF with respect to facilities for
child care services. In the case of ICT, these cost overruns were due, for
the most part, to management Inefficiencies; while In the case of ICMF, the
main reason was that standards used were consistently higher than the
original plan. The pertinent figures are shown helow.
19/ Costs per city are detailed in the Borrower's Project Completion
Report, oo.cit., in the project file.



-12-
ACTUAL AN~D ESTIMATED UNIT COSTS FOR SELECTECD C0ONPONENTS
(in current prices)
Aopraisal Revised
Estimate   Estimate            Actual
Selected Components           USA    X   US$   S Variance   US$  X Variance
Coneunity Development
Centers (per CDV)        314,815  100 391,304      24      471,429    S0
Child and Fatly
Welfare (per child)           136  100     318    134          355   161
Vocational Training
(per graduate)                134  100      81   (-39)          78  (-42)
Small Enterprise Credit
(per loan)                  2,222  100   2,508      13       3,194    44
Rome Improvement Credit
(per loan)                    712  100   1,46    110         1,517   113
Sites and Services
(per lot)                   1,192  100   2,422    103        2,556   114
Sources of Finance
4.03       Table 4 shows a significant reduction in Bank participation in
total project financing, from 40X to the actual 27X level. Concomitantly,
increases occurred In the financial participation of ICT, SENA, and ICF.
The main reason for this large deviation from the original financial plan
is due to the delay In processing of loan dlsbursement applications on the
part of SIP and the project entities. Since the expendltures on child and
family welfare services were not reimbursable, the execution of this compo-
nent to higher standards caused ICF to finance a larger share of total
proJect cost.
4.04      Not accounted for in total project cost and financing, are addi-
tional contributions to the project uade by the Government of Holland, the
Government of Canada through CIBA, and by UNICEF. A bilateral aid agree-
ment between the Government of Colombia and the Dutch Government In the
mid-1970s, provided for SENA's vocational training equipment for workshops
In Pereira, Cartago, Cucuta, and Villavicencio. Under the mae agreement,
SENA received technical assistance from three Dutch consultants with exper-
tise In institutional management, community promotion, and employment
generation.  This technical assistance progra  was completed in March 1979,
and probably accounts In part for the successful performance of SENA slnce
the start-up phase of  the project.  Likewise,  CIDA provided  technical
assistance to INSFOPAL In 1981, Indirectly assisting In the management of
the project's water supply component. Pinally, a non-quantified amount of
assistance was granted by UNICEF to ICBF during the implementatlon of the
chlld and family welfare piogram under the project.



-13-
Disbursements
4.05      At closing of accounts in December of 1Q84, onlY 11SA1R mlllion of
the USS?4.8 million Rank loan was dishursed, and approximately USS6.8
million was allocated for the Popayan component.   Domestic Inflation and
devaluation of the Colombian peso In relation to the dollar have not been
so great as to explain the shortfall which occurred in loan disbursements.
20/ As shown in Table 5, dlsbursements lagged throughout the life of the
project.  Rather, the main cause of both the lags and the final shortfall
In disbursement of Loan 1558-C0, excluding the Popayan component, seems to
lie on the complexity of the financial management task assigned to SIP,
involving the supervision of a large number of project accounts dispersed
amongst nine project executing agencies and 21 Municipal Water Companies.
SIP was unprepared and was never able to dedicate sufficient attention to
the problem during the life of the project.  Although during the last year
of project implementation SIP did provide assistance to project exectitlng
agencies which led to an acceleration of loan disbursements, the measures
taken were too late to compensate for previous lags and Inaccuracies.  The
financial expertise ultimately assembled in SIP In the early 1980., was
used to a greater extea.t to ensure adequate and timely domestic funding for
the project, than to monitor the preparation of loan disbursement applica-
tions. (Table 6).
Cost Recovery
4.06       In general the cost recovery objectives of the project were not
met.  Among the project executing agencies only CFP was able to reach the
level of cost recovery expected  under Loan  155R-Cn.   The  paucity of
reliable cost recovery data is also an indicator of inabilitv, on the part
of SIP, to vroperly monitor this aspect of the project.   Rank supervisIon
may also be rated less than adenuate with regard to cost recovery, in spite
of the repeatedly expressed concern over ICT's collection performance.21/
4.07       The cost recovery performance of CFP was satisfactory in so far
as the level of compliance by that agency with loan covenants governing
lending terms. CFP charged 182 p.a. interest rate for its loans to small
scale enterprises, which was sufficient to cover the costs of Its own funds
plus operational expenses.  Recent data on collections presented by CFP to
the project completion mission, show an average cumulative arrears of 11.7%
over amounts due in the proiect accounts, considered by CFP in line with
the performance of its other similar operations during the some period.22/
20/ Table 8 in this report.
21/ The only cost recovery covenant systematically monitored by Rank
supervision missions was Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement which
regulates the pricing of health services to cover consumable materials
costs, notwithstanding the fact that these costs are excluded from
project cost.
22/ CFP did not furnish annual data per project city that could be included
in this report. However, arrears figures for Loan IR34-CO (Third Small
Scale Industry Project) show arrears as 2 of total portfolio varying
from  11.4%  in  1981  to  17.32  in  19R3.    See,  LAc-IDFD2,  Project
Completion Report - Loan 1834-CC, Annex 14, Draft, undated.



-14-
4.08      Cost recovery of home improvement And sites and services loanc hy
ICT is significantly lower than appraisal projections throughout the imple-
mentation of these two components. Interest was charged at the rate of 122
p.a. or 1.8% below the recommended minimum of l3.RT p.a. In addition, ICT
Introduced grace periods for the repayment of its loans, that were not
contemplated in Schedule 6 of the Loan Agreement. Year by year collection
performance data are not available, but information on a sample of 6,744
accounts In the project zones (Table 9) Indicates that In early 1986 as
much as 67Z of all accounts were In arrears and, on these average arrears
was 8.6 months.  The financlal position of ICT itself has been precarious
during project implementation, andt the agency has experienced budgetary
constraints that made it diffIcult to staff local offices with the finan-
cial personnel necessary to Improve collections.   Not much has chanced
since then and prospects for improvements in the near future are not good.
4.09      INSFOPAL failed to comply with Schedule 7 of the Loan Agreement,
which sets forth the lending terms hetween that agency and the Municipal
Water Companies.   Collections on INSFOPAL loans are below   acceptahle
levels In all cities except Pereira.  Three Nunicipal Water Companies --
Sabanalarga, Ouibdo, and Turho, were not paying either principal or inter-
est on INSPOPAL loans by 12/31/1985.  In general, the average arrears was
63% over principal due and 562 over principal and interest due for 21
cities during 19R5 (Table 10).  Information regarding the periodicity and
the levels of water rate adlustments In the project cities during the life
of the project Is limited to Cucuta, where a tariff analysis was made on
occasion of project revision when the decision to include or not a water
treatment plant in that city's investment program had to be made.
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
General
5.01       The project was concelved as a process of social change and as
such most of its benefits were expected to accrue over the long term and
were not quantifiable. A review of the social acblevements up to comple-
tion (Table 11) suggests that benefits already accrued to a larger group of
urban poor than originally intended.   Primary education, chlld care and
nutrition service levels were raised far above the original expectations,
although less than expected gains were recorded for health services.
Benefits from vocational and management training have contrlbuted to the
development of marketable skills among a slgnificantly lhrger number of
workers than projected, and are helng used in small scale enterprises in
the project areas as well as in jobs outside those areas.  An estimated
2,100 new lndustrial jobs have been created in conjunction with the small
scale enterprise credit Program, or an average of 2.3 new lobs per enter-
prise; half of these jobs are concentrated in Ibague, Pasto and Pereira.
Benefits derived from housing credits are significant when estimated in
terms of imputed rents (Table 12).  Water supply investments henefitted a
large number of low-income familles through increased comfort, convenience,
health, and incremental land values associated with metered water connec-
tions. Achievements under this component reached almost 802 of appraisal
targets by 1983 and surpassed these targets by 352 two years later.  The



-1 S-
only expected benefit not realized inder the project is that associated
wtth the regularization of land tenure in view of the non-implementation of
that component.
IERR
5.02       The economic rate of return for shelter Investments, which was
recalculated based on the methodology used at appraisal is estimated at
10.92 for Pereira (Table 12). Possibly for the other prolect cities, which
tend to be on average less successful than Pereira In project implomenta-
tion, the IERR is estimated to be nomewhat lower than 10X for both sites
and services and home improvement investments.   In future projects which
include clearance and resettlement, the analysis of the IERR should take
into account costs and benefits of the houses cleared from the squatter
areas. For the water supply component (Table 13), the assumptions used at
appraisal were verified and the IERR reestimated using the same methodolo-
gy, at 10.42 for Pereira.  Wowever, financial rates of return, calculated
annually for the 1976-1982 period by Municipal Water Companies In 11
project cities are on the whole low.
VI.  INSTITTTIONAL PERFORMANCE
6.01      The institutional arrangements chosen for the project relied upon
the demonstrated Implementation capacity of nine sectoral agencies which
were assigned responsibility for the execution of the project components
(Table 14 and Pigure 1).  Project coordination was the reaponsibility of
SIP, a central secretariat created at the Office of the Presidency. It was
recognized at appraisal that the uniquely comprehensive design of the
project and its extensive geographical coverage, would imply, on the part
of the project coordinating agency, an lmportant role in programming the
specific responsihilities of the sectoral agencies so that their actions
would be coordinated in space and time.   In view o' SIP's weakness and
inexperience in managing developrvsnt projects, the following measures were
included in the project to strengthen SIP's coordination capacity:   (i)
assistance from DNP and the Ministry of Finance in preparing coordinated
annual programs and budgets; (ii) a significant increase in SIP's profes-
sional staff; (iii) a review process Including representation of DNP and
the participating agencies on the national and local levels ttrouxh the
establishment and maintenance of CDV councils; (iv) a monitoring and
evaluation component; and (v) further strengthening of project implementa-
tion capacity within the various implementing agencies.  In addition, It
was estimated that in its early stages, the project would require extensive
Bank supervision, amounting to about 75 staff-weeks during the first year,
and gradually diminishing during the subsequent years of project execution
to an average of 49 staff-weeks oer year for the four years of project
implementation.23/
23/ See, IBRD-SAR, Loan 1558-CO Para. 6.16.



-16-
6.02         The institutional analysis undertaken at the ttme of proiect
revision,24/ explained how under'taffing, inexperience, and high staff
turnover at SIP had seriously hdmpered the implementation of the project.
By late 1980, the project had had four Fxecutive Directors in two vear",
and the number of SIP staff averaged 10-25 persons compared to 60 persons
estimated at appraisal.   Two sectoral agencies, INSFOPAT. and ICT, which
together accounted for 71% of project investments, were found to have
similar staffing problems, particularly in the ICT unit in charge of the
shelter components.   In order to strengthen staffing weaknesses, project
revisions provided for increases in project administration allocations to a
level 40% above appraisal estimates. At SIP, emphasis was placed upon the
areas of engineering, flnance, loan dishursements, physical planning,
management Information systems, and on the intensification of the training
program for local CDV staff. Speciflc recommendations for improved hudget-
ing and funding procedures were implemented subsequently, and so were
changes in procurement procednres for CDV construction.   The recommenda-
tions for the internal reorganization of SIP, made earlier hy CINAP/ESAP,
were finally implemented in November 1980, when a professional Executive
Director was appointed and the complete central staff was hired.25/ (See
Figure 2). During the following 1981-1985 period, SIP had three Rx-cutive
Directors and was able to attract competent professional staff at the
central level. The qualitv and number of the staff at the local level was
also improved, although not all CDVs were fully staffed by project comple-
tion date.
6.03      A gradual transfer of CDV management responsibilitles to depart-
mental or municipal governments would be desirable.  This wonld mean that
the operational costs of the CDVs presently the responsihilitrv of the
central government would have to be assumed eventually by local govern-
ments.  Thus, the sustainahility of CDVs may require contintued subsidies
from the national governments, in the medium term.
VII.  BANK PERFORMANCE
7.01        Bank supervision of the project averaged 10 staff weeks during
the 1979-1Q85 period and only in 1980 reached the recormended level of 49
staff-weeks per year.  The intensive supervision programmed for the early
years of the project was not realized and supervision quality suffered from
lack of continuity in the Bank staff involved, as indicated by four shifts
in project officers between loan effectiveness and project revisions. As a
result, uneven Bank support in the first two years of project implementa-
tion, contributed in part to delays in the resolution of project implemen-
tation problems.
24/ See, "Organization, Management, and Performance of the Borrower," Annex
9, Supervision Report Loan 1558-CO, April 25, 1991.
25/ SIP's reorganization was a product of a study conducted by the Centro
de Investigaciones de Administracion Publica (CINAP) and the Esciela
Superior de Administracion Publica (ESAP) in mid-197q which resulted in
Resolucion No. 678 of October 23, 1979 that provides for a new
organizational structure for the agency. (See Figure 2).



-17-
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Overall Performance
8.01       The project has attained practically all Its social objectives,
having improved the levels of education, health, nutrltion, and marketable
skills of the target population in 23 small and medium size cities. The
prolect was less successful in achleving its financial goals and long term
Institutional objectives, and faces uncertainties with respect to its
replicahility and sustainability over time.
Lessons Learned
8.02      (a) Proiect Desien and Institutional nevp et.  The objective
of strengthening SIP's ability to coordinatMe-he act v ties of sectoral
agencies for the efficient delivery of seivizes to the urban poor has
basically been achieved but only after seriowo diificulties were overcom-
ed. Many of the difficulties encountered by SIE are due to shortcomings in
project design.  The first design defect relates to the location of SIP,
which affected the selection and the stability of its staff stemming from
its location in the Presidency and could have been avoided, for example, if
SIP was located at DNP. The location of SIP in DNP could have obviated the
need for the agency to acquire experience in multi-sectoral coordination,
strengthened its planning capacity,   and probably also reduced project
management  costs.   In general,  institutional coordination difficulties
could have been less through the initial selection of fewer cities and
fewer project components. Also, a more thorough assessment of the manage-
ment capacities of the executing agencies such as INSFOPAL and ICT at the
time of appraisal could perhaps have Identified better their institutional
weaknesses, and through corrective actions under the project could have
strengthened their respective capacities-and performance.   On the other
hand, the cholce of executing agency for each component was, in most
instances appropriate. Only one component - land tenure regularization -
was not implemented because of inadequate choice of executing agency.
Finally, proJect design did not anticipate the problems of administering
local services through a centralized secretariat and therefore, failed to
plan for the transfer of the responsibility for the operation of the CDVs
from SIP to municipal governments; these weaknesses could perhaps have been
considered and corrective measures Included in the project revision made In
May 1982.
8.03         (b) Community Participation.   Although not an objective in
itself, community participation was considered an essential element for the
achievement of the project's obiectives and the eventual transfer of the
program management to the community was stated repeatedly as a desirable
goal.  The results achieved in this area are uneven.  Sustained community
participation in most project zones appears to depend upon grants from SIP
to fluance local sports and cultural events, suggesting a pattern far
removed from the original idea of community managed programs. On the other
hand, as the project completion mission was able to ascertain, local
project activities and good CDV management, have attracted the participa-
tion of many public and private entities that were not formerly attached to
the project. These entities are investing in the project zones or other-
wise contributing to further raise the welfare levels of the population.



-18-
8.04       (c) Project Replicability.  The proiect corresionds to the first
phase of implementation of the national IPC program and was to provide the
Borrower with the means of refining that program and ensuring its sustained
cost effectiveness as coverage expanded.   In general, this objective has
not been attained for several reasons.   First, the project failed to
develop adequate management information systems and impact evaluation
measures that would provide a solid basis for future program choices. The
lack of such adequate Information has also male It difficult for SIP to
adjust the origlnal project model to each elty and, as a result, the
project as implemented may not constitute the most cost effective design
for some cities and may become less so as these citiea expand and new needs
arlse. The second factor 18 the limited cost recovery attained in the
shelter and water supply components, implying a much higher level of
national subsidization for the IPC program than originally envisaged. And
the third factor haspering project replicability Is the unresolved problem
of CDV administration. The CDVs are costly to operate and probably overde-
signed for the purpose intended. Nore importantly however, they are over-
designed in relation to the administrative and financial capacity of most
municipal and departmental governments.   Thus, while SIP continues to
operate the CDVs, It will function less efficientlv and will have more
difficulties in expanding the program to other cities and areas.
8.05       (d) Financial Planning and Fiscal Sustadnabllity.  The less than
adequate financial performance of the project raises questlons beyond the
relative compliance with loan covenants.   The history of the project
suggests that in order to carry-out multi-sectoral programs at the local
level, the habitual budgeting and programming procedures of the country had
to he disturbed. Thus less than adequate accountabillty and funding were
permanent risks during project execution.  Because these areas required
continuous attention, the planning necessary for long term fiscal sustain-
ability was neglected.   As a result, the National Government has had to
continue to subsidize the operation of some of the project's facilities.
Although after loan closing the IPC program in the 23 project cities
continues to operate with national funds, further expansion of the program
remains uncertain.  Not surprisingly, the basic uncertainty lies in the
difficulty of adjusting the program to the norms set forth In the Fiscal
and Administrative Reform of January 1986.



-   a -  S      -          : -   :        
-     .-                                  1   
a I   -   --                           .   a j-*  
||a  -L-                 '111.illlu LI11ll"
a~~-     ___X  _ __X_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __E_ _ _ _ _i _ _ _ _   I  i   {i .3
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
I~~~~~~~~~~l i **g          a    lii



-20-
ONIA - 'A3 1S56-0
-XVA ACUBWU
El                           ....AMft.......L..        UA L
-~~~~~~~~~~~I                              09*                                      n *  
mEAXL uUIcU I13C
(1) Ocmmit,  _sa          im cintas (n)
1daistretie   1                                    &n:          27     it?          23    100           21      9t
UseleT b VW                                                     24     I1           22    100           21      o1
Ysestiam  lhxaiaia  NOW*                       4 wntdaps        27   '117           23    100           21      91
idmy Sch*4l Module                             5 clasaorn.    21       117   -      23    100           21      91
cil4-caxe NAals                                 CAlis.          27      116         23    100          133    576
(2) Umcatlma
Wg  1chool costctiom                            clausreome    1         100        15     100         344    210
C.steetia of eadmiistrative sa  esitagY
ciflsy pofsy school f_1cities                 fsoilieia      204       -           0       -         I"        -
tiSOtaiom of eRitdag pdm   schools              clasroom       86       43         200    100          393    19f
_otXaeim  of ssatia  sad batr,tivs
millm  pdriaey scool fiitis                   fcii             0       -           0       -         219       -
Suply sA italltio  of eqipint Md
mteuials fez prism  scbhoos /d                clasoms    344          144        250    100          440    176
Trsiala  of prisary teaches                     COMO"          132      100        132    100          190    144
(3) Reath
Supply sad istalation of eqIpsout for
elefh caters                                      MAC          26     1t          22    100           23    105
Training of parmical, staff                      1 staff      400      100         400    tO0           98      25
Cometctir Of eblth cener outs"  cv aAC                           I      100          1    100            1    100
(4)  iu and amil gefalse
"Tl   d insltllati   of eqipint for CADs    CAM                27       1i6         23    100          1:1    5t7
lanoatio  of hom-child-cas uit            _     *     s        310      172        16O    100           sO      32
0ldrsa servd   In  me-child-oars uits         Ng aduild      3,100      41       7,550     100       4,574      61
Uqaigmnat for hows-cbild-care units               s0ms        310      172         ISO     100          56      32
Teaimiaof CAXP Stuag                              CAD.          27     IU           23    100          191    630
T"o  39 Of hildren seV"                       39 OsIUn    8,100         74  lt.ODO         100      14,.56     133
UnUWDAS PRUDCUrn IIffSUDMIC
Vocational Iraim
ziae~                                         tbgldwp           27     142          19l  tOO            16s
COWL%"                                        Ng 8toksto  26.100        49      52,84      100      49,1U   t 31
itm tS         1,600     122       1,475    100          9o       62
Avsen    Crdit Amont                             W           2,200      8        2,50 0     OO       3,200     In
0C iI iiC        cijto Coeps                  *  Coops          27      117         23    100           26    113
(a)           Assistance to hell ntabria
Group san  IndIvIdal     a *Jstance           Course           32      114         2S    tOO           42    15O
11161C.L AND twioiinu  niflovmrS  SID313r
(9) Lt d Tenure  caulArisation                     Title       31,000      493       6,282     100           0      -
(10)     I J rv M9t Credit                       39 toen        18,400      293       6,282    100        7,38t1    t7
AV*roP Cr dt   _tm                              us$           700       47        t,500    tOO       t.NO0    tOO
(1I) Sit " and            a                       39 loaws       7,300      354       2,064     100       2.695     140
AveragmCl stt V                                             1,200        50      2,400     100       2,500     104
(12) ywb    $  DI
Pfrtiy Distriutio  Lis                      Limns   in      1t.3)  ,   63        522.3    100         364.3    67
Secondary Diatr.but:io  Lines               Linear Ke       309.6)..'
tousbhld Cocan tiocs                      Coometioes       39.904       6s       6,686     100      31,445      73
Othe Ioduh (tiase.   tarpets mlyl               us.          us.        Da.       as.       VA.        ta.      Ga.
ISO=CT MANAE          AID nWAZuD
Adlaistra ion of CDVc                       39 Stuff           St       It?         69    100           5t      74
rojcct upst valuotios                      Ng Sureys            9       ISO          6     100           3      50
a/ Th   5dJU5t5d t4rgtS carnScoad to the -add   sa Ag1 met as pr lettar dated My 13, 1982.
yI Saeministrative idus contaimd a librxy, em offtce, a msis  rTom WA  sanitary facUitia.
ar  CAls ve locatd *itt.r at the CDV or in its             viciity.       -                     --
dl CerIin  40 student deks, 1 tecer  dek            d    de   terial                     .4irlp   clSree.
ftw wour eops hat  ba e 4quipe with res es f   ts                        _-emt og bollaod.
t l.ufd _me  transmission pipelines polng Stations, upgadin  of tnreet p1stt, wast strate  tank, mll
sPUt  upading wafts. At project adjusmant, a wtr trets              lemt we added.



-21-
aco&m       - 1"  IO-w
caml uuVZU.on  MUNiCT                          Ifmble S
1M 1 0W          M I_ lb
1S!AL PIOJIC  006!! 
(at ocuse pdoea)
-        XlC0 .USa        -                         -          e S$ _illi     -
Apiralsal Adjusted              Tazrwe"             Apprisal Adjusted                 Veilinge
Suelsas    hUtmS.   Actual   (ISUALL()                stisute  Eatisute   Actual    (0160/(1
(1)        (iLL     ain    gilt    L                 Wi        (LI)      (IU)       UII
SOCIAL sUYIUS SMM=U
COmits Dm_lat
Ca_tes  (mWY)               452.7      456.2    575.9    119.7   26                8.5       9.0       9.9       0.9  t0
iueatlm                       206.0      367.4     3U.60    18.)( 5)                3.9       6.6       5.9      (0.7) (11)
salth                          39.4       ".2       56.5   C 7.7)( 12)               0.7       1.2       1.0      (0.2) (17)
MM  mAd  mily  i.tle           59.8      177.6     310.1    132.5  75                1.1       3.5       5.2       1.7  49
"tot                    M73.0    1.065.6   1,291.3   22.7  21                  14.2      20.3      22.0       1.7    a
Voati-oal Trning              187.5      223.6    322.6       99.0  44               3.5       4.3       5.4        1.1  26
smll  lft pria  Credit        208.8      220.6    184.3   C 36.3)( 16)               4.0       3.7       2.9      (0.8) (22)
se4al Assistance                5.2        A          /c     an.  me.                0.1        /c        /c        ma. as.
$&L Coepeatiwes                10.0        /( A               Va.  as.               0.2        Mc        /c        nM. na.
Subtot 144.5                        444.2    506.9    62.7  14                  7.8       8.0       8.3       0.3    4
1831CML AID   .,TAL
DSSgum  supDwnc
Lad Sue         l     tJ       91.5        ma.       ma.        a.    a.             1.7       Oa.       VA . 
_om Improvemet Credits        701.6      512.7    684.9   172.2  34                  3.1       9.4      11.2        1.8  19
sit" ad Servic   Lots         461.9      309.1    534.2   225.1  73                  6.7       5.0       7.4       2.4  48
water s8pply                  662.4       834.9    653.2  (171.7)( 21)              12.4      15.4      11.3       (4.1) (27)
Subtotal               1.917.4   1.646.7  t.872.3    225.6  14                 35.9      29.8      29.9       0.1   0.
110Et              UDAGNMA
-EVLUDW                       216.0      310.0    336.5    26.5    9                 4.1       5.8       5.7      (0.1) (2)
GQAD TOTAL             3.302.9    3.46.S   4,007.0   623.6  18                 62.0      63.9      65.9       2.0    3
*/ Contingencies included and proratad. Land costs for oVa (USO.3 in tb4r ArE iima Dl &a " i         -a          w s=
li Ajusted  cti;-t baad an Amedad loa Agrett as per letter dated Nay 13, 1982.
c/ Mm coats ot technical aGstance and loam to cooperativs  co, onsts i'le_u ted by SIP, wor  aggegated to project
suamunt and ealuatio  costs.



-22-
C0042  - Wm 1558-CO
Una D0YU0InT PIOJIAT 4                   ttachme  to Tble 3
;0JICT cn  nu UtI  A        JICT ZmUcTI  AuGC
(is curnt mtilies)
1978-1980            198                M982                 1983             Total
AeAactes/Coments   Col         U         Cols      us$       COlS      Wj                  VSt      Col$      M6
ZOT/Carnity Cm:era 1t.50   3.19          124.00   2.28       1*5.60   2.58      141.80    1.60     575.90   9.65
ZCCZ/tucaetio         122.40  2.71        45.20   0.83        58.90  d.92       101.32    1.23     327.62   5.57
l IcA ..tiae.           0.00  0.00         3.50  0.06          0.50   0.01       16.97   0.22        20.97   0.29
UInmtam/UIth           21.30  0.47         7.00   0.13         2.50  0.04        25.70   0.33        58.50   0.97
ICUl1Iild tblfare      62.40   1.38      115.23  2.1t          0.00  0.00       132.45    t."      310.08   5.17
1. Social Setvices  350.60   7.75      294.93   5.41       227.50  3.55       418.24    5.31    t 291.27   21.85
SUMIVoc. Training      85.70   1.90       20.70  0.38        118.30   1.85       97.U1   1.24      322.58   5.37
CMISSR Credit          11.80  0.26        71.90   1.32        13.20  0.21        87.41   1.11      164.31   2.90
It. le i nad
JIductivity       97.50   2.16       92.60   1.70       131.50   2.06       185.29    2.35     506.89    8.27
ICTI_e  tSp. ta       129.40  2.86       147.20  2.70        169.90  2.65       238.45   3.02      684.95  11.23
ICT/Sites c  S nrices=   0.00  0.00       37.10  0.68        136.90  2.14       360.18   4.57      534.18    7.39
158a1 L/Ikter Supply  188.70  4.17      152.20  2.79        122.00   1.90      190.31   2.41      653.21   11.27
US.  ysical and
;iw_=vomts       318.10   7.03      336.50  6.17        428.60  6.69       788.94   10.00   t1872.34   29.69
IV. St/PrO}*ct
5uction        46.40   1.46       45.60   0.84        98.50   1.54      146.00    1.85      336.50   5.69
lVT&dIL           812.6  18.40        769.69  14.12      886.30  13.84    1.538.47   19.51   4.007.00  65.68
As X of Total             27.93              21.43               21.01               2.61              100.00
Amc4ated-M                          1,582.20 32.52     2,468.5  46.36    4,006.97  65.97
As X of Total                                49.36               70.37              100.00
*/ Average Exchag  rates: Col$45.22 (1978 40); Col$54.491 (1981); C*1*64.085 (1982); Co1578.85  (113).
i;/ Iclue COLDWEPOTES.
cl ICtT itn_llts in shelter prior to 1981 wete porly accounted for. In 1983 a review of the *ecounts indicated that
eubteatially higbher lvels of investent than previously recorded us" side during the first two ear of I1sta
tien. Thc_bct that these investmsta appear only in 1983 undervalues the US dollar quivalent of ICT   1 uinj1=       t.
dl Totals do not match due to rounding.



-23-
COLOMBIA - LOMN 1558-CO          Table 4
URRAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOURCES OF FINANCE aI
APPRAISAL ESTIATE              ACTUAL
COL$M      US$M     2    COUM        US$M     2
National Government     1,046.0    19.5   32        978.4   18.5   28
ICT                      673.0    12.6   20       1,065.0   19.3   29
SENA                     105.0      2.0     3       169.6     3.2     5
ICBP                      60.0      1.1     5       310.1     5.2     8
Banco Popular            104.0      2.0     3        93.5    1.7      3
IBiD                   1,315.0    24.8   40       1,390.4   18.0   27
TOTAL             3,303.0    62.0  100    4,07.o   65.9  100
a/ Excludes contributions from project beneflciaries.



-24-
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO                Table 5
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Appraisal vs. Actual
Cumulative Disbursements   As X of total
(USS million)
Year  Year Ending   Appraisal Estiimate   Actual   Appraisal Estimate Actual
1   June 30, 1979           7.03            0.00              28        0
2   June 30, 1980           13.45           0.68              54        5
3   June 30, 1981           19.72           1.89              80       10
4   June 30, 1982           24.80           5.14             100       21
5   June 30, 1983                          10.57                       43
6   June 30, 1984                          14.57                       59
7   June 30, 1985                          18.00 a/                    73 a/
a/ Loan balance transferred to the Popayan Reconstruction Project, Loan
2379-CO.



- 25 -
Tablo 6
COLOWIA - LOAN 1Ue-CO
URM DEYELOPNENT POJECT
DBISMENT ALLOCATIONS  M)
Araltel Alelocation  Revised Al lotion /a  Revised Al location /b  Actual Allocation /e
Catemorle               (Jully 197IT)          kway 19|2)          (Au-gUSt 19t4)           tua 19|0} 
1. Civil Works              6,4ft,M               1i,..                   ,428,M               5,26,8"9
2. Equipment, Materials,
2nd Vehicles               in ,                   , , 6,              2,6,61                2,57,867
S. Tralning and Technical
Assistance                 in...                1,65,                 1,65,m                1,094,282
4. Productiwv Lo.ans        2,in,_                 2,0,                  1,566s,               1,210,249
S. Housing Loan             8,,.                   8,J6,M                                      6,307,744
6. Unallocated              6,76,0"                1,90,066                456,i                     -
Total                    24,2SMce              2491111 8S4uf1J40111                        18 es2.SS1
7-12. Popeyen
Reconstruction                                                        6,46,0461             6,797,449 /d
GRAND TOTAL              24JB1110              24.661.666            24 e0.08 .            24.66,80AG
y As per Iltter from  W6 to the Borroer daead May 1J, 192, PratEfied by the Borreowr on July 2,
At per Amendmet to Loan Agreement, dated August 2, 1934, Section 2.66, Sehedul- 1.
# Figures reflect the Borrower's records which differ from Bank records due to differenes in precessing time
nd exchange rats caculetions of dluburmants of loan proceeds. Significant differences are found in
Ceggories 4  banks records: US12,286,442) and Category 5 (Bank re"ords: US15,869,510)  For a comparion of
record differences for si1 categorleo Attachmnt to Table O in this report. It is also possible that
ICT and CFP hod not differentiat  consltently disbursment *pplications corresponding to the Popayn
Reconstruction Project from those pertaining to the Urban Development Project.
/ Estiated figure.



-26-
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO    Attachment to Table 6
URBAN DEVmLOPMENT PROJECT
ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT ALLOCATIONS (U.S$)
IRRD                        SIP
April 1986      2           May 1986    2
1. Civil Works                   5,930,405     24     5,826,959         23
2. Equipment, Materials and
Vehicles                    2,469,942     1n     2,573,367         10
3. Training and Technical
Assistance                  1,994,310      A      1,994,232         8
4. Productive Loans              2,238,482      9      1,210,249         5
5. Bousing Loans                 5,369,510     22     6,397,744         26
Total                        18,002,649     73    18,002,551         73
7-12. Popayan Reconstruction        6,797,351 a/  27      6,797,449 a/     27
GRAND TOTAL                   24,800,000    100    24,800,000       100
aj Estimated figure.



-27-
COLOMBIA - L6AN 1558-CO                        -.ble 7
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANTICIPATED AND ACTUAL PRICF INCREASES
DURING TUE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Appraisal Estimate                               Actual
Local Prices a/ Foreign Prices a/ Exchange Rate b/ Local Prices a/ Exchange Rate cl
1978      26                8                36.7              35               39.1
1979      18                7.5             42.3               17               42.5
1980      15                7               48.6               25               47.3
1981      12                7               55.9               27               54.5
1982      12                7               62.6               24               64.1
1983                                                           17               78.8
1984                                                           18              100.8
a/ Consumer Prices, Annual percentage change In current year index relative to previous
year Index.  (December 1978 - 100). The SAR estimated 44X price contingencies over
base project costs for the project implementation period.
b/ The SAR used an average exchange rate of 11SS 1 - Col.S53.32 for the project
implementation period based on expected devaluation of the peso of 15X p.a. from 1Q78
to 1980, reducing to 121 p.a. in 19R1 and 1982.
c/ IN? Statistical Tables, figures for mid-year average rate.



- 28 -
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO                Table 8
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY - SHELTER COMPONENTS a/
(position as of 02/28/1986)
1. Monthly Insttllments Due (Col$000)                10,573   100
Monthly Installments Paid (Col$000)                3,567    34
Arrears that month (Col.$OOO)                      7,006    66
2. Total Principal Outstanding (Col$000)            984,860   100
Total Value of Accumulated Arrears (Col$O0O)    51,315   5.2
3. Principal Outstanding in
Rome Improvement Loans (Col$000)                365,383   100
Value of Accumulated Arrears in
Home Improvement Loans (Col$000)                 19,038    5.2
4. Principal Outstanding in
Sites and Services Loans (Col$000)               619,477  100
Value of Accumulated Arrears in
Sites and Services Loans (Col$000)                32,277   5.2
5.  Number of Loan Accounts                           6,744   100
No. cf Accounts in Arrears                        4,538    67
No. of Accounts in Arrears for 4 mo. or more      2,461    36
Average No. Months in Arrears                       8.6
Amount in Arrears/Monthly Payment Due               4.8
a/ Figures reflect loans made during the 1982-1985 period to project area
residents. Year by year cost recovery data for ICT housing loans are
not available. Information on loans made prior to 1982 to project area
residents was aggregated to the general ICT sectional accounts and
cannot be retrieved. See, Analisis Cartera Hipotecaria Programa IPC -
Vivienda (Feb. 28/86), Bogota, May 9, 1986. In the project file.



-29-
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO                Table 9
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COST RECOVERY - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE COMPONENT a/
Position as of (12/31/85)
Principal (ColSOOO)    Principal and Interest(ColSOOO)
City                      Due       Paid  % in Arrears    Due  Paid  X in Arrears
Armenla                   310.0       91.1      71        1,303.9      720.9     45
Pereira b/                315.4      401.6       -        1,534.0   1,816.3       -
Cartago                   532.2      363.1      32        2,371.0   1,877.3      21
Neiva                   2,515.0   1,643.1       35       12,512.4   9,187.5      27
Ibague                  1,047.2      637.0      39        5,319.8   4,096.5      23
Barrancabermeja         1,288.4      470.8      63        7,222.5   4,123.7      43
Tulua                   1,031.4      495.0      52        5,310.6   3,1n5.4      42
Manizales                  55.8         .0     100          265.3       43.0     R4
Villavirciiio             354.2      274.9      22        1,833.5   1,520.9      17
sabanalarga c/          4,263.0         .0     100       14,746.9       0.0    100
Pasto                   1,728.9         .0     100        8,661.1   1,287.4      85
Sincelejo               1,093.5         .0     100        4,010.9     201.7      95
Cucuta                  4,494.0   2,116.2       53       23,739.0  11,336.0      52
Bucaramanga             1,883.4   1,395.8       26        5,518.7   4,451.6      19
Turbo                     259.5      201.2      22        1,544.2   1,334.0      14
Quibdo                  1,153.1         .0     100        5,967.3         .0    10o
Tumaco                    782.6         .0     100        3,122.3         .0    1o0
Girardot                  513.7      340.2      34        1.W60.5   1,447.1      26
San Andres              1,079.3      609.8      43        3,320.0   1,915.4      42
Santa Marta               523.0     338.4       35        1,275.2     706.2      45
Riohacha                  136.3         .0     1nO          618.2         .0    10o
Total               25,359.9   9,458.3       63      112,165.5  49,179.2      56
a/ Figures reflect itost recovery of loans made by INSFOPAL to Municipal
Enterprises under the project, aggregating loans made in Phase I and ln Phase
II of the implementation of the water supply and sewerage component. See,
Borrower's PCR, Annex 3, "Recuperacion de Cartera".
b/ Pereira has made advanced loan payments.
c/ Only a small portion of INSFOPAL lending for Sabanalarga is part of the
project.



-30-
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO                   Table 10
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIAL ACRIEVEMENTS
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE        ACTUAL
No. of Reneficiaries   No. of Beneficiaries
SOGIAL SFRVICES SUBPROJECT
Community Development Centers (0DVs)        550,000                  610,000 a/
Education                                    22,000                   59,120
Health                                      550,000                  108,00O
Child and Family Welfare Centers (CAIPs)      5,500                   10,084
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY SUBPROJECT
Employment and Productivity Unlt (UPE)       26,000                   30,900
Productive Credits                            3,800 jobs               2,100 lobs
Vocational Training and Technical
Assistance                                 2,921.                  38,348
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPROVEMENTS SUBPROJECT
Regularization of Land Tenure
Credits (titles)                           30,000 households
Rome Improvement rredits                     18.400 households         7,3R1
Sites and Services Credits                    7,300 households         2,895
Water Supply and Sewerage (connections)    280,000 persons           230,100 b/
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND
EVALUATION SUBPROJECT
Project Implementation Plans (plans)             27                       23
Monitoring and Evaluation (3 measurements
in 4 areas)                                 12 studies              4 studies
Project Management                           institutional           Institutional
development           development
Source:  SAR pages 12-19, SIP project completion report.
aI The catchment area of the Community Development Centers (CDVs) has increased
both in physical area and in number of residents during prolect Implementa-
tion by an estimated 30% on the average. For an estimate of number of direct
beneficiaries see Attachment.
b/ The average household size used to estimate the number of beneficiaries from
domestic water supply connections is 5 people, slightly above the national
average of 4.6 persons per housing unit registered in the 1985 census.



-31-
Loan 1558-CO                                     Attaebment to Table 10
Estliate of Persons Directly Benefitting from the Project
vater supply                      32,872 connections         164,360 persons
vocational training               38,340 trainees             38,340
management training               30,900 trainees             30,900
productive credits                 2,100 Jobs                  2,100
new housing loans                  2,895 households           14,475
home iuprovement loans             7,381 households           36,305
education: priwary                59,120 student places      59,120
health: services extended by
health promoters              108,000 persons             108,000
nutrition/childcare(CAIPs)        10,084                      10,084
community organization               180 groups                1,080
neighborhood cultural and
sport events                    15,000 persons              15,000
Total                                             450,000
Average No. Beneficiaries
per project zone                                              19,570



-32-
*LWf    - !    1511-0
rjmnw     crmmm   Uasms m.un   IWIUG n        ~    smc            a    U
IUDI!101                   m ai               * UZUUz-cl6oW EUI
(is crt llUOOO)
Cost Ut__                                    _ 'i' l      _
uatl erial.&t-b       ,./ m               Sbfttd        1 1   mtitL, uA.c            not vat"
1977           43.06    12.92       6.61       0.43     45.04                 -         -           - 65.04
1976           40.52    M2.1S       6.10       0.41    41.16                  -         -           - *1.16
979            37.23     11.17      .44        0.37    54.21                 22        7.13         - 49.06
1960           33.50     10.05      6.70       0.33    50.56                 45       14.56         - 34.00
1981          176.01     53.40     35.60        1.76   266.79                91       29.46         -239.31.
1982           63.64     19.10    12.73        0.64    96.13                201t       5.12         - 31.01
1983           58.46     17.54     11.69       0.56     66.27               24        79.06         - 9.21
1984-1993                                      4.54      4.4                260       90.n            66.16
1994                                           4.11      4.11               260       90.72            U.61
1"5                                            3.71      3.71               20        90.72           67.01
1996                                           3.34      3.34               260       90.72           87.36
I"9                                             3.00     3.00               260       90.72           67.n
199                                             1.22     1.11               260       90.72           89.50
1990                                           0.59      0.59               260       90.             90.13
2000- 2004                                                                  280       90.72           90.n
IRR R   10.92
*/ lesd on units built ea ea averae lot of 60 at 8u  60 as of livable space in two-storeay high.
kI Lctual coats cowered by ICT loan.
c/ Beneficiaries' lor astimeta  at 302 of the vale  of building materials.
d/ Seed  n actual lad price paid by besafielaiss.
*1 Ad.fuatratio  ceo  turred by ICS during lean collectins, stionted at 12 of lean valu.
LI Actul ratse of occupancy givn an arge constuctio  peiod of mw ler.
m alative value of imputed rets baed on actual rets colleced in 1 Irnia. In May 196. avergng9
U5$27/w. for a bue of 80 S livable spc.



-33-
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO               Table 12
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REESTIMATION OF THE IERR FOR WATER SUPPLY DISTRIBUTION INVESTMENTS:
THE CASE OF PEREIRA a/
(it current USSOOO)
Cost Stream -                Benefit Stream -
Design,
Works,     Administ. &               Connections Imputed      Net
& Supplies  Maintenance  Subtotal       (Cum.)     Rent      Value
/b          /c                        /d        /e
1981        53.4         5.3          58.7         300        4.8     - 53.9
1982        68.1         6.8          74.9         962       15.5     - 59.4
1983-
2001                      1.2          1.2         962       15.5       14.3
IERR - 10.36%
/Empresas Publicas de Pereira, description of investments:  construction
5.2 km of water distribution lines at 3" and 6"; installation of 962
metered household connections including replacement of 61 connections;
procurement of pipes, meters, valves, hydrants, and fitting, and design
costs estimated at 102 of value of civil works contract; executed in
1981 (40%) and 1982 (60%); total Investment in current pesos
Col.$7,274,681.48; source: E.P.P. and INSFOPAL, May 198fi.
bl Actual costs as reported for Phase I contract by INSFOPAL. c/ Estimated
at 1% p.a. over investment costs.
c/ Estimated at 1% p.a. over investment costs.
d/ Actual.
e/ Given an average unserviced lot of 60 m: valued in the market at US$246
(or US$4.10/m ) and a reestimated assessment of market value increment
attributable to water supply of 180?, the investment would raise average
plot value by $196.80. Applying the rent/value ratio of .082, the
imputed benefit flow is US$16.14 per annum.



-34-
COLOMBIA - LOAN 1558-CO               Table 13
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lIZMPCNTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
MINISTRY           IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
SOCIAL SRRVICES SUBPROJECT
Coumunity Development Centers   Development  lnstituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
Education                        Education    Instituto Colomhiano de
Construcciones Escolares
(ICCE)
Wbalth                           Realth       Ministerio de la Salud Publica
Family and Child Welfare         Wealth       Instituto Colombiano de
Bienestar Familiar (ICBF)
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY
SUBPROJECT
vocational Training              Human        Servicio Nacional de
Resources    Aprendisaje (SENA)
Small Industry Credit            Development  Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP)
Technical Assistance             Human        Servicio Nacional de
Resources    Aprendizaje (SENA)
Presidency   Secretaria de Integracion
Popular (SIP)
IMPROVEMENTS SUBPROJECT
Land Tenure Regularization       Development  Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
Housing and Area Improvements   Development  Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
New Housing (sites and           Development  Instituto de Credito
services)                                 Territorial (ICT)
Water Supply and Sewerage        Wealth       Instituto de Fomento
Municipal (INSPOPAL)



-35-
*. I
~~of 3
-_ IA Ii5&D
FM  033zMm AS MU=, I.VIMI. MO MW
0          a 1.mrived ad  edsad                                   a    Iim l4 mAd
I.SWE& SMOtS MM=
1. gatm  ltk                  (Ols)                1. 11w 0W w4a  mm tWlsmtad e pimi tn the 23
1w ~c  dl of the Wm   tnl, i  aMI-ls-d             _ cit   idz the      wn d of the G1h  idi wi,, for
trOai    te   _ wikia as up at a U*1w. a odftf.   de w t, p      iwt   tin   idid  t  the aI. bi Ut
ad a _ittri     : a vocioal tainulw m&d  b               part of tim %du coazp   1w .rp cns ion
d o.d of up to 4  isolbow;  * 1tsmry alo            oat per  ter _ USS4OD tl i       l orl or X a   dUa     the *
mAda wAth 5 clanm l; a fadly aI ddld                J}ntit 'ait oat tie.   e q"ilty of awatntt4iw  awl
wutae  *Aie ((AP) with tety for 1M  dill-    p         avt o the fl"t 6 _ars wcl.r por aid cm
drean ad a hmas  u-A1-  (W. 7* SM plaim             awtbad to be autauly iubt (Iau ). To
27 of dtm   ct.  foolect altjrnt an 4               ('   AnIm ard Sets Merta) mmrat fwitalul bI cle-
ater (we in Fairs awl 3 In Oxuta) tidlg             ticn datad da   of the 23 haldth ,li OM) mem not
enaO  to Proide axAtAi for roject ati-              qeratiaml by thst idme. Ntne of the 21 am1  acars
wide tin tim  utmazy  .of .t dim  tu               hid tha full stff of 3 SIP f.awimm       IT po,l*tion
citoo. bemi   wa Fr aw DVm  m  ve-                d&te. the rminder Im  2 or I staff  Im  rIy.
ed #Aa et U390 thamwd ea.  aid  ortas,
ortStrally eatt      at UM$0.3 wiltin for all
27 oatam  we i        _orporate Iota thi  amnszm-
tin cst bmm. tn ovt  a, hea Om
dmad   by auidpalitien.
2. Enia
(d SPdool countixan ard vmnist                  2.(a) 1w ui nui of claom aotLally bktt (346) awd
SMR jiaywmd taypts for tia         I twis-          reanted (343) surast by 962 tim revised pt(sical
ted by LO11, war: amtauctimn of 165 cls-            targets. Tn aittn a total of 291 auillazy adwio
roin at 2D4 allary fadUttis  In  lmay              faclUttis (164 smitary wit. awd 127 aftnistrative
s    ;ttos  newmen of 86 clansoo. Da*               wdits) _ea iwuit. 'Lni larC10nts mm also _e
Iqletattin, d.wd aulysis in eac project            In 117 wiumy sdtol buLdiuum. Qnmtnxttln staisrds
ram drtuatldr  b      '.. rI fo clinsrau re-       uems laelamentd    apptal   it wit    ts W    ote actlly
ntaut. iaTta ert   e idiustel as folim:             Iner tOmn tim    ial s attate.
awnstrac     of 165 clsasrom, nCmwaten of
21D c1ins  atl the oumtnatlim d awlUary           (b) Primoy *Io  equlm. 6nttuae ard  terials
fadUties  an elbeild.                               m             wdl for 440 esLrato,  4j'E by 76 the
(b) PtoUisiA  of ftuiture. epilZ t aid             tual    t    se.
etras  for S66 clsro.  This lAysCal
teqt _sonr    to 25D l    la s Ws Olai to         (c)  se  the lewl of iddll of paLwy teadurs to the
awi for teat d   I.                 pojet sw    Wsr lmw  im rot                      ly enwta,. the
(c) tsiniu of Pdar Sdwwl TBaAt . Uer              cames wae eqwbl to 2Mturs seac wd a tetal of
de a     blUty ef tem Setol            Its          190 cwsw emm glmwig the slit 3 yems of Ite-
of the Itaitry of Sdumttau* 132 amesa of 60          1tiaa,   Iiru   by t C.- . igimllt I.. only
to t2sMau each me  to be gtvm to e-1ad             emploa tadhm rwel trliig. stne  tralirg fad-
ad nw  tealea.t Uttes beem   buter In the  obiest ers tOm awam    in
the ctty, tatitdW pltits l        re attrsative.
3. Faklh                                           3.a) 21 MC( umm epiljaed by mxojem @'qlettun date he
(a) W     .  Poont, intallation, aid                3 of thme at ni4w stabwb than ergntully plaim
qwatin of hsiu eqotp    (tobifJal -M-1.             twa n total of 24 eqdpped teaw is ladttane. In
aonto          awl a MMOc teta  awld -tdral)    tm  utties (RMdh    ard Ses tha ts) eqsdi   - w  not
m       plann  for 27 hwath  aer (4MM)., 26 ataedul   intalled by compttat  dute.
to the 0 b awl I asgids. 1m  MCb mmn  e I to
23 in Uit ilth the n tttan tn the o-r of CM.
(b) txetr1iai of or MC w:sh tim  V.               (b) Isqu-ned   plimd.
(c) lt  of pmrlielt rnawuu i-iauliug SD           (C) Forty (40) eastat    n   awl 44 imalti prxetm
satat rains adl sauitely 323 heolth pro,-           me ttwdi,d pul  14 ew iruidta  mltatii IeauteawI
1w t    tal do 98 staff tratid fais Mt by 75t of
SAl e     .
4. Guild WA rdly lblfs                               (a) 133 CAIk mm bhalt. 5.8 ti_ Wm  thm tie
(a)    Uet for CAIJAS.-tginly paint   for 27       tt.  Cty per CWP awemW4 75 uildtn, a
CUft us        I   I to 23 tn Uio vith the reftion  restmi  As to eawraitt of lAd adl tutlitrw  in
in the mwuen of an. taps rejasty per CAP            de Prject sm.  A totl f 10t,14 dtildrme  ere
_ inca d fnm 1O to 150 al tite toa        bs          i  s     a t "    faclitiest, on thr twiee the
of dilden svenI in C'lP vasoI for                   roevi    tar.
5,DDD to 4,368.                                   (b) S8 xilts wm  halt or nm al     d eetraiz ed iswee
(b) _t- m 1 A         nt for bl-dd-m          fse    tiesLit,.     o ef iM  e t tn preiate l    he dtreetly
wilts. lFe 5AR plawa     310  sawits with an        adaintated by U7. Ier           ty  u  rla  to 79
nrge apcity of 10 duildrei sd. Proiet               ddlidru. Mlu  nidtr of ddaldren sinm   _ 4.574 or
dijnsmt z      I tim 'uw    of wlts to 18D  d       61S of the nwisJ- aslate.
intcnnsed inral capecty to dat 42 duldwna.        (c) Saff for 133 WSPs awl 58 dwetralwsed fdtltties
1w tesptuint that sewrm be   '-  tn a               ea  trlAd. 8 ti_    tho I  i        d. In
private kinee mm %alu!. Total ddldren to ae        aditio, MO pWids excellent asuisim   of tim
d   in thi   uwits m   a-satiated at               fla   staff.
7.55D.                                            (d) A total of 14,658 cdildvn      1ie   smeVel by asula-
(C) MM1uuIw of stAff for IU, esaited to            tion dte, a 332 incea       teem d eatntas.
staff for 27 cars   awnd ashety n    I  I
to 23 cats.                                         Tn Wm"", lW  itap     s  the pg   at Mostr
(d) lbtal duida  sed with day-ae aw                 awtA sb thm n ttlly plaumi.  eib-wilts  r nnly
I  I   . I   a len i           I            'after   atm de to soado the Adti'.



- 36 -AN                                              
P 2of 3
IL 1em  AmD FDITmvY SJTWI
5. Vo.<i. I~aitdsw (Dp,iimit aid Trdinhtie).          5. QAly oe tridrdrt nodle  (Sm kdres) was not epappad
IF -4u t for 27 vociMrl trini,O r    lviw in          by coletem  ete. hI  U ciittes        t Son hid,
the cm ala  (4 wlie   ier 'ai2al) -                   S(A lai trainirg before the (3W oaplex       u hIt.
reuced to 23 wAld, in Uiv with the tetiot             Me omalatle e  rhr of trainees    to oWletim date
in the inur at MWs. "mmer, beo            the          -  69,198 ineludiig tedod  wl .mi ril uamre,
oi'tation Sp.oemit of HIolla  had ftfnls              311 in       of th revsal target. Sam eirkihps toe
equipart for 4   gd t. the tswt me further            been r-eqdp         to ailtat for d-m- in the dI   for
tuhI   to 19. Ihe Is     of traines    re-            ddls In project cities. S2'sa Perfora    thra4tmt
saieae  as 52Jltl (twice *  mv  an In the SM)         poject  WIilt*att    ham hen mllekt.  lier is n
hecam  vsoe Itens tm  of the failities         _      recrd teaver, of the ruw   of graduates iAw Acteily
emusmid.  Omrss  me to be  atly tedwdml               otditd Jobe - a result of the trainig  eosed.  Tn
but a f aevc ,tWmwt courm twre also                    m  dtie  wenkip       e mmkqt ope off-cln hme  for
plaviud. A tcasr study of graates te  ewisIgf         the ar of laml artisan.  ertiodical latr ne*vet
to imxim .hem    of the prcgrsa.   eedifc            sties 'mm  ue nrtak  to gudde cayreselection md.
trainri  pegra per ctty udit he deterniun  bY         tn am  cam. eploters went to the SB vweA   to
SERA an the hba  of perioitatl lsbN waret stc es.    recnuit tw workers.
6. 9lU aternis  Owdtt.   umG   to be 1iqie-           6. Tqpleutscntim   haqre  by delays in the transfer of
Ivto by CrV.P. with fiHmdt  r fro BUawn 1tlar.        finb ftr-  8m    Pqpslar to C.F.P. A total of 9DR credits
Te inder of c"ta       redu    free 1,)O to          wre  abiram   by ao,letiun date, a ayot-faU of IN in
1,475 to adjuet to mme osrvative  _II esti-           relatims to the revisa tarets. Aev e.  low    nt Ms
mates mdby CJ.P. lie  merW  crdt aswun                USS3,200, a 24X increase over revisal fures. adit pro-
mn              tsde fro IEi2,MnX to us2,5ao to reflect  visin mI supervitatm   less than alquete in the cities
prie esalation. FuU   estecovery w           denvi ,  uere C.F.P. had nv office (Sahevlar, lbla, Zirn, and
at a level sitable to over the aut of funds to        Villaviondo). A total of 13 dttes ware oawrat by the
the lteder and aldnistrative ewpss.                   pnoge    'he role of the Notionvl Oarcatee FiAn In proiav
tollaterel mm snor and de tedinca  aistate by WA to
help appeUcts prepue credit appUeatias wanm  imtt r-
tant (ses ttey 8 tklrw). Out e qvr he been in lIem with
loan Agremt covenants we arresa ame nt larger dOm  in
other C.F.P. oWetoas (11.7S of the principal .I tnterent
dae). Record of defaults is nnt awdlable. probably a sore
tealiv  eot recoverv datin.
7. Cpav     Ihis ce u  w  to be tnple-                7. the actual       of sawit  and lam coaertiws o         drgens
by SP in all (IVs. A reauction from 27               by SIP (26) e   Id by 132 the revidsd targets. Ibevar,
to 23 svtigs WAn loans cooeratives am ease In         coperativm me  not organre In all cittes: In  etbrelit
live with the rution in the vidber of OWeN.     snd tiudha the prograum  m attevd aMi faile. Ar.ena,
Prtic escalatiat affected the avge asurut of          Qztbdo and Ssn Andre3 hae 2 eopratives each. lhe eo-
rotattwig fu  per cooperattve aid, for this           nent wa  ieilavrte alog the Unes met ast tn the SR bht
ren, the osts of ths eqpmet mm adJusted               nos of the cooperatives ha bev. self-sffidiet.
up.mts. lMoses osts are Inclrev under Prolect         Tbdtical assistat to cooperatives absorbed a  t  dal
fth-   ut and  taluetina beme   SIP adsitiniters      of tite of the Itclyzesnt Pmerz   futetionure of SIP In
the progravv.                                         each (IV.
8. Tadutcal Ancsue to SvaU htebries.                  8. 11 oomletion date, SIP has hired 16 -eployeit prosters'
Te iepnt wa  mt to be administerd by                  to perform the futctiom orlgtrilly vwlagWd unier thts
SIP aid  ristead baically of dte sreis do oowest - moat of thva tare vt eiqnswaer   mi  3t of the
an iru3trial egLne per  V. Oginal targets             dedicated more time to the cooperative prgr.   e         t
of 27 ergt are were reduced to 23 in line with         ms basically ileanteld by SEI in so far an glvitg   _-
the rewztim o' OWs. Out estitutes tr nAduted          vet cses and titividial assistano3  to awUd  eitreptefirs.
to reflect hisher salarLes for exvers. 1he            A total of 42 such es  tare sdven, 50 more than plasmd,
nrber of hsic   _ t    ess (acoxEt,                   asd ahbot 1,e83 estabUsbt3nts befttted fru  direct teJi-
perwearl. sales) m  also reduced frem 32 to 2R.       tical assstawe by SB1 lrtructore. Recause vuither 5
nor SIP kept separate sazouns for this        . at antsdt-
ment to de ots  of the ov        meat be msae to reflet
thte d-ae tn inplenertiug 9geicy.
I1L  N810 a.D 1MMM     D                _W80l
9. IAnd Des IWMlarities. lthis  e t                   9. ICr did not iplesnt the laid teire  gulariatoan
-m  apprasid as a lenaig operstion fre  ICr           prWK    althoi#i all recipientt of ho  impprvemits crita
to aunicipal aiutrities to eqite LAid  tlitg          did regulariz their teure, but dii it with dtir am
aid  ire  the urnt cettr.  i eAn      latai           resomr   and prior to the appmeal of the ICT crdit.
31,MD0 property titles ae  to be issud to             ht fat. rvt hewtng a clear title to Lnnd remi. a valor
project residets. ilpZroVitg their aezes to           hurier to aoom to 1rcr credit.
credit and to weer suwoy hwt  euctiam.
Daritg inlemtation, rcr I ndtuicated ft -m         10. ICT e   tdl the tevisa targets for how. ientosr t
vaue to leid to nicipelities or to iudiviwlAsA        losm by 17 (7,381 crdito tre distisl  by ouplaett
do tae  nt also recipLets of how iqurwesest           date). This   d   Wam due to iquotseas in Icl  v_ng-
credits. ror this  teauc the   q      ls             met of the conent during die last par of i.plentaion.
Iesad ard sade a part of the heo  i qproessat           dhieb pertitted the ager to identify credits  e  to
crdit  Ient  ith a reluced target of                  poect residats prior to project arlt,tat I    de tae  not
6,242 bneficaries.                                      osted  for at that tiae.  Pein the figue wtre
entered in total project ots in 1983 US dollar equivalent,
10.        lp   t  (Kedits. 1t Mm tlyaical targets        estiate  undervalue the ant actufly spet. DFe aserz
for this  .a tar e  rued ftre 18,400                  credit mist -m  abet 1lSI,50) as plad. (bIActiu
credits to 6,282 due to ladc of i*pleaatsti          rxesrg  a seriro  pnbia  thrysitat project iwplauvat_o
c"dty of ICr in mm of the project dties,              Available records for the 1982-1985 period, meertit
partiwclrly tdith rergard to cotlectita. lie          6,744 aser    div 672 of the ayta  In arremsz for
averse boe tinroset lown Wm aised fro                 an avera  of 9 scths.   teret  ate  disl te 122 pA.
UIS700,tD to  51,500 inwduiig land tems.              pits 2t p.a. to emu tinno3 comts.
reguarization, reflectivg esclation of  en-
truat ia ts. Pull cowt v ry wa  epetd
althli    e iuert rtee te  at.lly ,rWtive
at a cohn of 13.  pa.



- 3? -                                         AM    I
!1- 3 ot 3
11. tt  and Setw    la.   ts                           It 11. IcrY. i0aylintmiof ctit  cmyt  lm           by 44
*lx    ed by icr, as omlitlUy iamI to                 tim rwsid targts (2,895 omt      law  mm dbhared).
any fmliU    that eh   to be tmloceAd fres             the isord  lefs t  mos1    probm   taend
tlm pojest mm  for rsmmm of xety.                      aim  with refeame to       i,qmII    & create. Th
tig remade cd ICr Up to 1982 iwd wry                   agog   low mat wa  U$2,51M, nly sltjtly  Mr th-
for rIouto,w ta  the      Wm       rs ml tId  revised eatiame. Coctiam ra_n a *aio  problm
fem 7,300 lote to 2,064 lote, n3t oly kmte             e&dbititdg themm recod a tdat of _m iqetnw
of tde  nUler relos  on    l 6 slt abl be cultto. vits, *dt tie ad"    blem that IU offerI, in svral
UT hal it      strot ad_vute latle.mton                uibprojects,       pedods of up to 12  t.  to baft-
capety in s    cities. lidt  asper p nrtw     d. Iste                    t ow      imi tim igtr m l  13m.. e  oA.
It mme itsrs    froe 031,t2i  to I382.40D,             etitiud in tie Lom Agrac t 1S p.a. plus   X pa.
:rflctiig  elation di atruation pttcim.                Inuiwae fee.
Fiil cast r ry, adhult at  ibdel itet
rate, m  plaud for ti  awIt.
12. Wer                                                12.(a) B peojet oxletion date 384.3 Uremr kw. ct Ser
_____er    butin  1    (suppUs ad civil            distribLsttn litm rwre terminsted, corr'mpwtivW to 742 of
terka). The SI p na   the installation of              the auset taret.   m sortfall _m  de to delays in
_abut 328 liWar I. of wter dgtribution ls,              strating  with tie &apwm asd in amwtiuiao. All
62 of ttdh wm  priesy Urn md the rest  soay            pipe at fitti   rare pWmrae nar    tie 197%iq 1 pdod
Unes. After detled engiering g  cileted,               s!A thdr divery .m tidly. Ilee C    umm  der-
in 1981, for uwt project cittie, ll;FlWAL pro-         tation ct  actual extenam   of pIcury at -sedey
poeed dA-s   di-ges bimeally increaing tie             ligms it is not psible to acrtain thbt   ft the
propertion of prl.my UrnY  to 5Q2 of thi  1t           nent
and rsiui  the nitrks' extemion to 522 Urear
lam.
(b) Ibuehold      cmseit. lhe SaR peoected            (b) r  ospletion date 31,445 8rmttiasm  re se ale iontinw
In 39.904 the mmer  of cxmcai . TFhs   r               a drtfaU of 33Z in relati  to th  rei  target. lhe
was aibmalstly ajusted to 46,686 cxmttam.              sowe r meas  *id  delayed r tshk inutallation explain tie
(c) S-dal -af to iqnr   local  ter ea ply              l     mier of himtod c         tias.
system mr plesm  In 8 project cities. Upon            (c) specal works in all 8 project cities were implemeted
azqietion of detaled ecrgteedriw, 11WA pr-             as plamm'. In the cae of Saimmiega, lm  pI         vtwe
poan tt alditiona to the oritral list of wunt;         umad oly to finse  tbe srly of pipes WAl fittti   for
a water trestnet plaM  in QX,ta aid     m  in          the tier netwdac extensios. AU other vioa ve  firdnoe
Salmnalarg. lw Barck  roved the Ojota plant            by lTWMAL.
bt not the am in Sabanalarw  bune It caid tm          (d) S_  distribagtion wnek  ;ware impleested in kAmta
be  isfte  that tie nmicipel estzprise wIoll           aI Tulua after tim pread water mo*s  rse date.
be able to rer costs througi tariffs aiusr-            in these twD cides, a teat of 12.7 li    km of se w
mets.                                                    nes wrm lid ed 1,683 hamiuold eamemtiW ere seb.
(d) Se.xm   distribution. lNt ortigially p]amd.       (c) DPWAL l1ert  tarm to tme  1eam were 13 p.a.
(e)  n   mm t rerv,              estimated cmtoa       intaamt rate  .er a period of 17 years inclaluti 4 yora
of the cmini wrm incresed by 242 fats U12.4            of grace. Logn rery a of 03131/85 hm bem vy  por.
|dilion to tS515.4 utiin to accomodate tm lager       TAery of prcipal  e awerd 372 an of C1ii l
seq  of tim ampimt ad itncrese  in Comtrution          amn trnes  44. MIe ay iptema up-to-date in its 1cm
prices. FbLl cast -a ery y DW            tiEgPN        paynnts is Pereira. Four dties (Ssbamlaw, Qdubdo,
rIayne3t of tts loa" to tbe fs tcipal e    sterpresa.  Tvaco, and Rldwch hdi nat paid eitier pdrtpel ar
kw  ervissag   thrg  local tariff adtujets             interest y tim ath   date. Althlt Osa ei6tted to
apcable citysde. Doirng #4_Iw, it WaS                  tie Bik a wer tariff adjet pCosl, JUstifyirg thi
agnrei tt UlFlWA. calI tranmfer to im bpresas          financian    vability of thie Am   er trenet plat, tts
sap to 6QI of tde total saut of the invest-            p    t  to DIWAL em  53 in arrears.
mot in ah cdty aEd enreaperablae astribtat            (d) ah to delays by MWAL in silttula  reivnreet
to tie capital of the enerprees. Mm rmmidze            appUcacia, the Bark rgreM to honor app_sctiam for
4QC mld timn be cr-leshed by   RFWPAL to tie epre     disb,rssrvt tltil berdir 31, 1984.
a  at 13 p.a. irnterest rat over a priLod             (e) lhtdTi  the 1984-1985 perod, tim  &as ith DOEAL
of ap to 17 years. tbe Loan  greeat dod                fiiessti., ceplata an ablittloml 84 Unmar e ef wCtE r
anticipate capital oantribitiam frm  DWMI&L            dst$htimon lines ae  nsde 2),685 addtitnal household
to the emress. bt only ap to 4  of tti malue                atiam, tius  ehi  te Cmnnectionsrontw  to
of thi itnveattts plesnd tn eacd city.                 13% above tie rewlsed targets.
lV. P13XI MMAUIYE    AN8D EVAUATi                            IV. (a) SIP was inrapable cf a-ssalivt a fodl. aperiewO
(a) Froect             The loan geent Speed-          ma  tell trainei staff utl N11le 1980, tt  years
fied the bUligtion of SW to hire siffideat             after project intf tio.  ield staff hss beet Ite ct
xst          staff to aftbnster the project at tie     titrorWmt prowect implemetation with vrd to aspbiLmt
astral offioe and in emh proiect city.                wpnters. Olripr the last 3 years of tplamtation tim
qualUty ami  bear of SP's staff has iqpred a _bstetialy
In relation to tim firs two ye.
(b) PMiect titorio. A vesnat informetica               (b) A vsritoritg evaluation uxdt ws esablied  witbin
system wm ples, alces with aeil stulies to             SIP in Povemr 1980 and staffed with ewrietmd prnfSo-
giw operatiaial feedbadc to SI on speeific isme        nale. lhi aml etites were not iPlstaed.
(c) Proect lact  1Ealaem. In  tare ilcpt              (c) ihe ittituto SER am oxeZrIct to do thie prject
aenemat am planmed, intlvimLi btelinem azey            evaluation in 1980 ard eeted the beUeim eA.rey in
folkUd by 3 or 4      iamwnts inTitially in all        3 cities plus a final  tt on the dat clee. Tae
pmject cties. Ihis plm am  ahuted to inclde            eaubqent       re     mre am  dam due to tailUty of
ony 3 cities ad a total of 4  _msirenta in edr.        SIP to taract the lrmtte for the sand ts.e of tim
stiay. lhe remit ia to t iant arlysia is nat i-nlsbe.
(d) Ann imlsation P1mm. All project ms                 (d) Aea lapltation Plum rare aeaimpletmd adi a
(27) mt to hawe tM-ONd  arn  iaqentatiam               for 16 project ames in 1979 (Fme I plow). Tn 1981,
plnsm, te first Om  correspondin to a diansis          to esdite ttie pr, timflhe  ak eed to   11  R- 1
of local caditiam amd the sanesd Owe to the            ard 1me  rl p1mm in a lrgle docureat. Om plae am
prn        intermetinami to be underatien vser tim     approed in that yer. Ibriar 1982 the 6 rnatiag zie
poject. aeak aEpp l of tie  pMm wam a ca di-           pm e  em apm      .   mhe quality d thie pmam _smem
tion for dtdbaeeant qgainmt aexiture 'n emd            bat on the illea. a!utvet  ad tie mdi prblm wam td
particalar dty. lhe total nIueer d A3ae aM             day enatered in thdr Oaq ,IMo   sa imptat ifaco
rP II to 23 duriew iqalmestaion.                       in delayl, lao dcifabmts.



- 38 -                              NW  IU
Tfu l-ot I
OMIA - IN 1555D
U Uo  N             ELM   o
M CrriES  -r OZrN
ias   06IaI tal KEY 1ww s
lam AEM
Oseed(M                       OYAWA*                                     imrvatio.
3.J1 (a) (i)        Tbmafer, or a    the Protect ifitity           In pittd  OOanie; tiwbmae
to proide, tly -    Id, the                  fm1iU  durbti  the first twD years
f.ula, faltttes, anAcs wJ                    awl delaysi t        ttfera aihaitty.
other tescmw required.
Tlfer the auivalet of rat lem                In partial orPUaona dus to
thm  S10,90J,000, S12,400,(J) awl            intuffidet traufers  witwr the
92,.O,00,) in pea  rspectvly to              ftrt tw  yea arW           t
ICr, NWOAL ard (WP, aon ur-                  delys therefter.
rei,iutsable  beas.
3.01 (b)            Prepa  Pmject t4dleastantin pans.,            In ompliance, aldth* utlimely
atisfactory to the Bak. for each of          because the last 6 plaw were
the gtg     ical mane iiadsi tn              only  siittae to the lEk for
the project.                                 approva tn 1982.
301 (c)             Vbliow leai' ten aw  fwftttam                Not in iwIltawc iin tle     of
set forth In Sdedue 6 for creitt              ICr, tn aiplirim  i the cae
prqag  wiAer Parta Bad C of the              of CFP ant in LW8AL. 1Cr
Project tma  fruo  UPtAL to vtil-            dharp1 iterest rates an their
da aterprism; Emfn  Icr to bre               heurwE  1e  if 12X p.R. of I18
ficiaria  of tadt ta te t uAlariza-          pa. Iess than stahliiwi in
tion al hlrai' Loas; fmm CFP to              Fam. I (b) aoi I (c) of Sdblule
8mut see aterprises ail coWra-               6.
tim).
3.01 (c),(d),   E tker tnto octract wtth each of the              In orpltam ht h lelayr1 sipr-
(g)            Project Enttttes.                             ture of orlgtrnl eagowUOns ard
of reviASl arwnents.
3.0I (h)             se the Banm Papelar to enter into            In owItawo, altht.h unttselr.
mstract with CFP iter hitch Bm                BP ton to CFP m not dishnrsl
Tbpalar lerd tauCFP tin poa the              until dlA-IS9 acd therafter with
eqtdvaewt of two  tmilU dollars,             further delays.
tn somrdanoe wdth term and ositiua
sat forth in Sd&die 7.
3.02 (a)            Case DBWAL to eter into oetract              DI OiplAnM albeit wtituly.
idth each mumipal Fesa.                       0elaye1 saiiture of original anl
revisal coutraciC.
Sdcule 7            tenrtig tera between IIOAL ard                In partil coipliance; {PAL
2.0                a8s.                                           trmsferral 6h! rather than 14t
as eqtity oatrtium to the
fapresa plus VA al oln. therefore
the dUresas  li mSt cartritbte
with their am fis, As r     eqiati.
3.06 (a), (b)       Furndsh  nfortattin to the Nak,;              In eopliance althm* mnly after
idntain  ewonrb al nfmitor project.          the ecid  year of Prolect t*pe-
esitatirm.
3.06 (a). (b)       qIloy qtmitfHed awi ewpenced staff            Parttal aitanop; i   staff
(c)            in Project entitiet at ntral office           tunmer In SIP aw vancies in
al in project  w.                            Wr aoi SIP loc  staff thrahwaut
the project life.
3.09 (a), (b)       Fatabtigi aid  uintain National CM            In putial coalianoe; onwilas
(c)            (acl,  aal ONI (srit old Coordt-               mre establistud bIt porly aim-
ntiW n a .                                   tatned, both At the nuttoni awl
the locad leel devy rt spot* -
lly during the life of the
1aect.-
4.03, 4.04          stablish and n,itusin reor  in               Tn partial   qlitnr; satitat
acrdmte  with sgur acmsntuw                  acsxt  af project stitite  fuani-
pratices; furnidh mach acouts                Ohd to he Bank after signtficant
to the  1*.                                  delays; [Ca has nt lept sqerate
armits of hasdiw  cralta durtfa
the first tta yea of project
lfe; recnris tprol  frns 1981
on.



Figure 1
COLOMiA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJCT
ADMINISTIVE ORGANIZATION OF THE IFC PROGRM
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"A
OtiIM*fO         of
I      X              X -
L= LWJ                          r I  LJ  lJLJ    lor PIRA      o V0W
I                !         I I
!____ I
i I . I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w ~&I . __
, W LL W>   s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
m    {  ..1  1-   1  1  A     1    1  .e i M~~~~OW"*-M



50
I              X_ _       I         I I ;           8
i    E---E~~~~~~~~----------
I  Q..... {
55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kAg
'CI~~----------



