Report No. 1681a-CO                                                               FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Colombia
Urban Development Project
April 10, 1978
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Worid Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. lts contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(based on a weighted average exchange rate over the period 1978-81)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
US$1          = Col$53.32
Col$1         = US$0.01875
Col$1 million = US$18,750
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP           =    Banco Popular
BR           =    Banco de la Republica
CAIP         =    Integrated Pre-School Care Center
CDV          =    Neighborhood Development Center
CFP          =    Corporacion Financiera Popular
CONPES       =    Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y Social
DNP          =    Departmento Nacional de Planeacion
DRI          -    Integrated Rural Development Program
ICBF         =    Instituto Colombiano de Bienastar Familiar
ICCE         -    Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares
ICT          =    Instituto de Credito Territorial
IIT          -    Institute of Technological Research
INSFOPAL     =    Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
IPC          -    Programa de Integracion de Servicios y
Participacion Communitaria
MlAC         =    Basic Module of Health Care
PAN          =    National Nutrition Program
SENA         =    Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
SIP          =    Secretaria Integracion Popular
SuperCoop    =    Superintendencia Nacional de Cooperativas
UNIDO        =    United Nations International Development
Organization
UPE          =    Employment and Productivity Unit
USAID        =    United States Agency for International
Development



COLOMBIA                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Proposed Urban Development Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION                                         iv-vii
I.   INTRODUCTION                                                     1
II.   BACKGROUND                                                       1
A.   Population Service Levels                                   1
*                     - Population and Urban Growth                                1
- Income and Service Levels                                 2
- Urban Housing                                             2
B.   National Policies                                           3
- Government Objectives                                     3
- Bank Objectives                                           4
- Constraints                                               4
III.   THE PROGRAM                                                      4
A.   Background                                                  4
- Earlier Actions                                           4
- Origins of the Program                                    5
B.   Definition of Scope                                         6
C.   Features of the Program                                     6
- Introduction                                              6
- Improved Social Services                                  7
- Increased Employment and Productivity                     7
- Improved Physical and Environmental
Conditions                                              8
D.   Related Programs                                            8
- Introduction                                              8
- Education                                                 8
- Health and Nutrition                                      9
- Employment and Productivity                               9
- Water Supply and Sewerage                                 9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in February 1977
which consisted of: B. Gouveia, E. Canessa, and Ms. E. Sebastian, and Ms. N.
Barry of the Bank. Messrs. E. Kessler, R. Healy and G. Herrera participated
as consultants. Field work was completed by B. Gouveia and R. Wildeman in
June 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipienis only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                      10
A.   Objectives and Strategy                                    10
- Introduction                                             10
- Project Concept                                          10
B.   Definition of Scope                                        11
- Income Levels                                            11
- Catchment Zones                                          11
C.   Detailed Project Features                                  12
- Introduction                                             12
- Social Services Subproject                               12
- Employment and Productivity Subproject                   15
- Physical and Environmental Improvements
Subproject                                              16
- Project Management and Evaluation Subproject             19
V.   COSTS, FINANCING, RECOVERY, AND LOAN ADMINISTRATION             19
A.   Cost Estimates                                             19
B.   Financing                                                  21
- Financing Plan                                           21
C.   Cost Recovery                                              23
- Introduction                                             23
- Social Services Subproject                               23
- Employment and Productivity Subproject                   23
- Physical and Environmental Improvements
Subproject                                             24
D.   Loan Administration                                        26
- Implementation                                           26
- Procurement                                              26
- Disbursements                                            27



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                    27
- Overall Policy and Implementation
Responsibilities                                      27
- Organizational Structure of SIP                        29
- Coordinating and Programming                           30
- Budget and Flow of Funds                               30
- Monitoring and Evaluation                              31
- Supervision                                            31
VII.   JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                                        31
VIII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                   34
ANNEXES
1.   Social Services
2.   Employment and Productivity
3.   Physical and Environmental Improvements
4.   Design Standards and Cost Estimates
5.   Organization and Management
6.   Justification
MAPS
1.   Colombia (IBRD 12894)
2.   Gerardot with project areas (IBRD 12820)
3.   Cucuta with project areas (IBRD 12817)
4.   Cartago with project areas (IBRD 12821)
5.   Pereira with project areas (IBRD 12818)



- 1v
CHARTS
1.   Organization of the MAC-1 and Health Center (WB 17677)
2.   Administrative Organization of the CAIP (WB 17678)
3.   CDV-Cucuta (WB 17720)
4.   Relationship of Programs, Resources and Outputs
of the Employment and Productivity Unit (WB 17676)
5.   ICT's Proportion of Investments 1975 (WB 17669)
6.   Typical Block Layout--Serviced Lots Development
City of Pereira (IBRD 13049)
7.   Serviced Lots, Phased Development of Lot (WB 17667)
8.   Serviced Lots, Typical House Design (WB 17668)
9.   Admínistrative Organization of the IPC Program (WB 17675)
10.   Typical Implementation Program for a Zone (WB 17719)
11.   Implementation Program (WB 17718)
12.   Organization Chart:  SIP (WB 17670)
13.   Organization Structure of the Presidency of the Republic
(WB 17674)
14.   Organization Chart:  ICT (WB 17982)
15.   Organization Chart:  ICBF (WB 17666)
16.   Organization Chart:  Corporacion Financiera Popular S.S.
(WB 17673)



v 
COLOMBIA
Proposed Urban Development Project
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        Colombia has experienced one of the highest rates of urban growth
in Latin America. The 1977 urban population is estimated to be 70% of the
total population; a proportion more than double that of 1938. Of the total
population of about 24.2 million inhabitants, 15% or 3.5 million people
are living in the capital city, Bogota. The balance of the total population
is divided into several intermediate and large cities. There are, for example,
over 90 urban centers with populations exceeding 30,000. Colombia's rapid
urbanization has been a major contributing factor to the phenomenon of "urban
marginality" - the creation of an urban lower class, ill-housed, lacking public
services, and not well integrated into the rest of the local society.
2.        Incomes in Colombia are also quite unequally distributed.  However,
a major reform of Colombia's tax system in May 1974 substantially increased
the progressivity of income taxes. The government's stated policy has been to
use the resulting revenues to finance programs that would improve the welfare
of families in the lower half of the income distribution curve. The proposed
urban development project is part of this effort, along with programs for
health, nutrition ai ri ral development.
3.        The proposed project is also consistent with the Bank's recently
developed guidelines for directing a greater share of project benefits toward
tite urban poor, defined as persons whose purchasing power is less than one-
third the national average. For Colombia, this means that the "relative
poverty" minimum is family incomes of less than US$1300 per annum. The pro-
posed project, which would be the Bank's first operation in the urban devel-
opment sector in Colombia, would also be the government's first national
íntegrated effort in attacking directly the problem of urban poverty. The
Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) would be responsible for carrying out
the project with the ministries of Education, Health and Human Resources who
have the appropriate sectoral responsíbility. Each ministry has had previous
experience with similar programs in the past.
4.        The proposed project would be implemented in 27 geographical zones
in 23 selected cities and would reach about 550,000 inhabitants. A high
percentage of the residents in the zones meet the Bank's urban poverty identi-
fication criteria. For the first four cities included in the project, the
proportion of project area residents with incomes below the "relative poverty"
minimum are: Cartago, 82.9%; Cucuta, 73.9%; and Pereira, 54.3%. No income
distribution information is available for Girardot, hiit average per capita
income is well below the poverty level.
5.        The proposed project aims to provide social services, credit and
infrastructure to segments of the population which were not previously
integrated within either the credit markets or the urban service supply



- vi -
systems, and includes positive efforts at increasing employment and produc-
tivity. The project is uni,quely comprehensive, and concentrates on multiple
services in a single neíghborhood. The building of community development
centers (CDVs) for the provision in a single complex of multiple services,
the regularization of the settlement, and the planned-for public participation
in service delivery is intended to create a sense of community identity and,
taken as a whole, reduce the social alienation associated with the "urban
marginality" phenomenon.
6.        The total cost of the project is estimated at the equivalent of
US$62.0 million, including contingencies but excluding the contribution of
beneficiaries of the credit programs to the cost of the specific investments
to be financed with such credits. US$14.5 million equivalent, or 23% of the
cost, is estimated to represent foreign exchange costs. The proposed Bank
loan of US$24.8 million equivalent would finance 40% of the estimated cost of
the project and would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of US$14.5
million equivalent and US$10.3 million equivalent of local currency costs.
7.        The remainder of the financing for the project would be provided by
local sources, as follows:
US$ Million             % of
Equívalent          Project Cost
Government                              19.5                   31
Banco Popular                            2.0                    3
ICT                                     12.6                   20
ICBF                                     1.1                    2
SENA                                     2.0                    3
Total                              37.2                  60
8.        US$10.9 million, US$5 million and US$2 million equivalent of Bank
loan proceeds would be transferred by the Government to Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT), Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), and
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), respectively, in pesos, on a non-
reimbursable basis. Such transfers will enable these agencies to participate
in the project and, afterward, to increase their participation in similar
projects.
9.        The proposed project consists of the following:
(a) Improved Social Services, including the construction
of and equipment for community development centers,
primary schools and health centers, child and family
welfare centers, as well as training of teachers,
community health staff and child welfare workers;
(b) Increased Employment and Productivity, including managerial
assistance for promotion and organization of private and
cooperative enterprises; training programs; and credit
for small-scale enterprises;



- vii -
(c) Physical and Environmental Improvements, including regulari-
zation of land tenure, credits for home improvements, sites
and services development, and basic infrastructure services
such as water and sewerage; and
(d) Project Management and Evaluation, including strengthening
the implementing agencies by financing appropriate
studies and surveys; strengthening the executing agency
by funding initial operating expenses and training
programs so that it would be better able to monitor,
evaluate and refine the project.
10.       A substantial proportion of the project investment costs would be
recovered by the implementing agencies, and would be affordable by the lowest
income families. Two revolving funds would be created to replicate the
physical and environmental subproject in other slum areas. Two of the major
implementing agencies, Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT) and Corporacion
Financiera Popular (CFP), would make loans at interest rates ranging from
14-18%, and would achieve near complete investment cost recovery based on
expected rates of default and rates of inflation.
11.       Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000
or more will be let under international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Other goods will be procured in accordance with the Govern-
ment's competitive bidding procedures, which are considered to be satisfactory.
Civil works contracts will be let under local competitive bidding procedures.
Civil works estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equivalent may be procured
on a negotiated basis, and, in the case of CDV and classroom construction,
they may be carried out by force account with the prior approval of the Bank.
Suppliers of goods manufactured in Colombia would receive a margin of prefer-
ence of 15% on the value of import duties, whichever is lower.
12.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over
a four-year period and would finance (i) 40% of total expenditures for civil
works; (ii) 40% of total expenditures for equipment and materials; (iii) 50%
of total expenditures for training of staff; (iv) 50% of amounts disbursed by
CFP under the program of productive credits; and (v) 50% of amounts disbursed
by ICT under credits for home improvements and sites and services.
13.       The economic returns to major components of the project are accept-
able. The internal economic rate of return is estimated to be 10% for the
combined housing and sites and services components, and 10% for the water
supply component. These components account for 74% of the total project costs.
Internal economic rates of return were not computed for the other components
because of the predominance of non-quantifiable factors, but there is strong
evidence that the incremental benefits of the services provided by these
components are high.






COLOMBIA
Proposed Urban Development Project
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Recognízing that urban poverty is one of the country's most acute
development constraints, the government has embarked on a national program
for urban poverty - Programa de Integracion de Servicios y Particípacion
Comunitaria (IPC) - that seeks to raise living standards of the poorest 50%
of the urban population through combined measures in the various sectors. ln
order to add impetus to its policy, the government has created a national
agency, Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP), which reports directly to
the President and is responsible for administering the program.
1.02      The government has requested Bank financing and assistance in
implementing the first four years of the program, which would constitute the
proposed project. The project would be the first Bank urban development
operation in Colombia and has evolved from a continuous dialogue between the
Bank, Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP), the National Planning Department
(DNP) and participating ministries and institutions in Colombia dating from
November 1975. It is based on comprehensive multi-sectoral studies prepared
by these government bodies and coordinated by DNP, and is a result of a
sustained effort by the Government and Bank staff. Project appraisal was
initiated by a mission in February 1977, and, after additional preparation and
adjustment of government programs, the field work was completed in June 1977.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Population and Service Levels
Population and Urban Growth
2.01      The total population of Colombia is about 24.2 million and is grow-
ing at an average annual rate of 2.6%. Unlike many Latin American countries,
Colombia is divided into several separate valleys, and the population is
widely distributed among several intermediate and large cities. Transportation
and communication between the cites have not been reliable, and with the
general topography of the country have created wide regional disparities. Of
the total population, about 15% is living in the capital city, Bogota, which
now has a population estimated at 3.5 million. This is low compared to the
"primacy" of other countries, where in 1970 for example, 35.8% of the popula-
tion of Argentina was living in Buenos Aires, 32.3% of the population of Chile
was living in Santiago and 24.5% of the population of Peru was living in Lima.
Medellin and Cali, the second and third largest cities respectively, have
already surpassed the one million mark, while Barranquilla has over 700,000
inhabitants; Cartagena, Bucaramanga, Manizales and Pereira each have about
300,000, and 13 other cities have over 100,000 inhabitants.



-'2-
2.02      Colombia has experienced one of the highest rates of urban growth
in Latin America. The proportion of the urban population (living in towns
of more than 2,500 inhabitants) increased from 31% of the population in
1938 to 61% in 1973 and is estimated to exceed 70% by the end of 1977.
During the period 1951-1964, which coincided with widespread rural violence,
urban growth peaked at an average annual rate of 5.4%, but decreased to an
average annual rate of 3.9% during the 1964-73 period. This was 50% more
than the rate of total population growth, which also decreased from a peak
of 3.1% during the 1951-64 period, to 2.6% during the 1964-73 period. This
rate is expected to remain relatively constant over the next few years.
2.03      Recent estimates of the rates of net migration indicate that the
predominantly urban orientation of most of the migration continues to hold,
and net inflows have tended to converge on those cities which have the
greatest relative increase in employment opportunities. Given the age
selectivity of migration, it is not surprising to find that the population
of the citíes in Colombia is relatively very young. More than 64% of the
urban population is less than 25 years old, even though the proportion under
10 years of age has shrunk from 32% in 1964 to 27% in 1973. The labor
force under 25 years of age in the cities tends to be especially high, and
in recent years, it has risen from 29% in 1964 to 32% in 1973. The urban
population includes a disproportionate number of women; 115 women for each
100 men, compared with 91 women for each 100 men in the rural areas.
2.04      Industry has tendecl to be concentrated around the four largest
cities, Bogota, Medellin, Cali and Barranquilla which, in aggregate, account
for over 80% of the industrial employment and output. The continued migra-
tion to the cities has created intractable problems of unemployment and
urban poverty and has put severe pressure on the infrastructure resources
of the communities. The increases in population have also given the largest
cities highly visible problems of pollution and congestion.
Income and Service Levels
2.05      Despite the concerted efforts made by different Governments, incomes
in Colombia are still very unequally distributed. The effects are compounded
by a maldistribution of access to basic services. In the urban areas, access
of the poor to service tends to be limited particularly by the fact that they
are less likely to hold title to the land on which they live -- and utility
suppliers have been reluctant to extend service to plots with uncertain title.
One-fourth of the urban population, for example, still does not have direct
access to public water supply; about 60% does not have direct access to
sewerage services. In the rural areas, about 65% of the population does not
have access to water, while 87% does not have access to sewerage facilities.
In addition, the four largest cities have been more successful than others in
extending infrastructure and other public services, and remain on average
better served at all income levels.
Urban Housing
2.06      One of the most important results of the urban growth has been
the significant housing deficit. Census data for Colombia in 1973 indicates



- 3 -
that the absolute difference between the number of families and the number
of housing units was nearly 310,000 in 20 of the larger cities. Moreover the
private housing construction industry in urban areas is generally limited to
higher income neighborhoods, and housing commands high prices, a good credit
rating, and formal title to land. Since most of the public housing offered by
the principal housing agencies share some or all of the above characteristics,
it is therefore, out of reach of the lower-income groups. As a result,
most of the new housing needs for these groups are met through a parallel
market in "pirate" land sub-divisons, squatter settlements, and do-it-yourself
construction.
2.07      Pirate subdivisions tend to be developed on the periphery of
the city by individuals who gain legal control of parcels of land, and then
resell them rapidly in small plots without urban infrastructure, and with-
out authorization by city officials. A recent survey by one of the country's
major public housing agencies, Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT), showed
that of 69 cíties surveyed, 41% of the total populaton, or about 4.5 million
lived in "subnormal" neighborhoods, while 13%, or about 1.4 million did not
have title to their land. It is estimated that 59% of the 1972 population
of Bogota, for example, lived in tracts that had originated in pirate develop-
ments. Such developments are characterized by poverty, lack of employment,
poor housing, inadequate health and education, crime and social alienation.
B. National Policies
Government Objectives
2.09      The Colombian economy made considerable progress in the period
1967-75, growing at an average annual rate of 6.4% compared to less than
5% a year during the 1950-67 period. The accelerated economic growth, coupled
with a decline in population growth brought, about a rapid increase in per
capita incomes. Employment opportunities increased as a result of greatly
expanded industrial production. A boom in construction in 1973 and early 1974
encouraged the continued influx of migrants into the urban areas and led to a
rapid increase in the urban labor force. However, by the end of 1976 urban
unemployment had declined to about 9% against 14% two years earlier.
2.10      The new administration which took office in August of 1974, insti-
tuted fiscal, financial and trade reforms to help stabilize the economy and
lay the basis for more rapid growth in the future. The fiscal reform is
particularly noteworthy because it has improved the progressivity and elasti-
sity of the tax system and because it has provided the national treasury with
additional resources, a great portion of which are being used to finance
social projects. At the end of 1976 nearly 37% of total government outlays
were to support social programs. The Government's sectoral policies stress
the need to provide adequate economic infrastructure for rapid growth of
industrial and agricultural output, while at the same time implementing
projects aimed at improving the living standards of the poorest 50% of the
population.
2.11      In order to improve living standards, the government is increas-
ing access to quality educational and health services through projects in



- 4 -
urban and rural development and nutrition. Decentralization and regional
development policies are aimed at increasing participation of the country's
most deprived regions in the development process. In addition, the government
is pursuing a policy of improving the infrastructure services in the smaller
and medium-sized cities, which together with the other programs, it hopes will
slow down the rural migratíon to the four largest cities. The government's
efforts in attaining these objectíves have been directed not only at provid-
ing funds for priority projects, but also at strengthening certain key
agencies, so that they would become efficient and would be better able to
identify, plan, and evaluate projects.
Bank Objectives
2.12      The Government's objectives are consistent with the Bank's objec-
tives for directing a greater share of project benefits toward the urban poor,
defined in Latin America as persons whose purchasing power ís less than
one-third the national average.  For Colombia, this means urban dwellers with
family incomes of less than US$1300 per annum. Thus, the proposed urban
development project is not only designed to attack directly the problem of
urban poverty, but also to foster more balanced regional growth in order to
give more people an opportunity to participate in the economic development of
the country. In addition, the proposed project would support the Government's
efforts to strengthen public institutions.
Constraints
2.13      Ambitious social sector programs highlight the need for increased
levels of public investment, as well as for institutions and management ex-
perienced in the administration of such programs. At the national level, a
major constraint is the generation of sufficient savings to implement the
necessary public investment program. At the local level, the major constraint
has been primarily institutional problems, especially poor planning by the
local entities and, in certain cases, the traditionally low tariffs for
infrastructure services which have made it dífficult to raise large capital
sums needed for new works.
III.  THE PROGRAM
A. Background
Earlier Actions
3.01      Traditionally, efforts to improve the living conditions of the urban
poor in Colombia were developed and carried out by individual agencies. For
example, prevíous efforts dealt with slum improvement in Bogota, the capital
city, as well as Cali, Cucuta, and Pereira. Other efforts dealt with educa-
tion, health, nutrition and small scale credíts. Although no comprehensive
evaluation has been made of the results of these efforts, it appears to have
achieved only a modest impact in most regions of the country. Moreover,
financial resources have not been adequate for sustained efforts on a sig-
nificant scale, and participating agencies have not always provided full
support to the programs, so that the efforts tended to be fragmented and
poorly coordinated.



-5.
3.02      In addition, traditional thinking viewed the cause of urban poverty
mainly in the physical context--characterized by environmental deterioration,
lack of infrastructure services, inadequate housing and uncontrolled squat-
ting. Correspondingly, efforts to improve the situation were also viewed in
the physical context, and attention was mostly focused on eradication and
relocation as the only viable alternative. This tended to oversimplify the
problem by placing the emphasis on short-term and remedial actions, rather
than preventative measures that would focus more directly on correcting the
cause of the problem.
3.03      In Colombia, as elsewhere among developing countries, the causes
of urban poverty are multiple. A direct correlation between food intake and
income was shown, for example, in a 1972 family food consumption survey by
the Colombia Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF). It recorded 44% of all
families surveyed with incomes of less than US$30 per month as having a
30% calorie deficit, and 54% of the same group with a similar deficit level
in proteins. In addition, the poverty factor is compounded by other social,
cultural and environmental constraints especially affecting the poor. In-
sufficient education, inadequate health facilities, lack of job opportunities,
diseases from lack of safe sanitation facilities, and relative isolation
from mainstream society severely limit the poor family's ability to improve
themselves. The compounding effects of poverty also impact on the learning
ability and school attendance rate of children--54% dropout before the
third grade--and on the production capacity of adult workers.
Origins of the Program
3.04      Government recognition of these defíciencies led to the creation
of a national program for urban poverty--Programa de Integracion de Servicios
y Participacion Comunitaria (IPC)--as a central element of the 1975-78 Na-
tional Plan for Social and Economic Development. The program seeks to attack
the root causes as well as the symptoms of urban poverty among the poorest
50% of Colombia's population. The government proposes to accomplish this
through a long-term multisectoral strategy which combines existing programs
with new undertakings.
3.05      The program was drawn up by the National Planning Department (DNP)
in collaboration with the executing agency Secretaria de Integracion Popular
(SIP). Both the program and the executing agency were ratified by Presiden-
tial Decree No. 198 on January 31, 1977. The program represents a major
departure from previous governnent approaches to urban poverty. Its new
direction and emphasis derive from three basic premises.
(i) improvement in the living conditions of the deprived
groups in the population is an essential factor in
national economic and social development;
(ii)  urban poverty cannot be dealt with effectively with-
out identifying and dealing with the socioeconomic
problems underlying the problem; and,
(iii)  to be effective, multisectoral urban poverty pro-
grams must focus on those most affected by the
social and economic alienation.



- 6 -
B. Definition of Scope
3.06      The government has requested Bank assistance:  (i) to strengthen
its operational capacity to carry out the proposed program, (ii) to identify
and test out appropriate variations and additional measures to increase its
impact, and (iii) to monitor and evaluate it effectively. Initially, the
government intended that the program include 44 cities and achieve full national
coverage by 1978. In consultation with the Bank, the government decided on a
more manageable implementation pace, with national coverage to be reached in
three phases ending in 1985. The first phase would begin with the proposed
Bank financed project to support 23 selected cities in the program. The next
phase would be a three-year program involving proposed Bank assistance for
implementation in the metropolitan area of Cartegena, while the last phase
would extend the program to the balance of the cities.
3.07      The first phase of the program, which would be the proposed project,
was originally intended for implementation over three years, but was subse-
quently extended by one year, and will now end in 1981. The program would be
implemented in the following cities: Armenia, Barrancabermeja, Bucaramanga,
Cartago, Cucuta, Girardot, Ibague, Manizales, Monteria, Neiva, Pasto, Pereira,
Quibdo, Riohacha, Sabanalarga, San Andres, Santa Marta, Sincelejo, Tulua,
Tumaco, Turbo, Valledupar, and Villavicencio. The program would focus on
specific geographic zones in each city. In total there are 27 zones which
have been identified as having a high average concentration of urban poor,
inadequate infrastructure seirvices and poor environmental conditions. The
program would reach about 550,000 ínhabitants. Of this amount, about 80%
are among the urban poor.
3.08      Implementation of the program would begin in four cities:  Cartago,
Cucuta, Girardot and Pereira. In this connection, certain components of the
program have already been identified, including area development plans, ap-
pointment of local coordinating committees, and detailed designs for the con-
struction of community development centers. In the other cities, preliminary
surveys have been completed and initial discussions with local officials and
participating agencies have been concluded. As detailed designs become
available, the other cities would be incorporated into the program.
C.  Features of the Program
Introduction
3.09      The Bank has played an integral part in the development of the
program. As a result of Bank involvement in project preparation, the general
development of the program broadened from merely providing community faci-
lities in the target areas, to focus more closely on the integrated develop-
ment of the community and in,creased community participation. The program now
includes positive efforts at increasing the employment and productivity of the
target groups by providing vocational training and small-scale credits, and a
major effort at regularizing tenure, the delivery of basic services and
improvement of shelter.



- 7 -
3.10      Rather than ignore the slums or try dogmatically to remove them,
the program concentrates on integrating several related measures in the
employment, industrial, water supply, housing, health, education, and social
welfare sectors into three principal combinations of action programs: improved
social services; increased employment and productivity; and improved physical
and environmental conditions.
Improved Social Services
3.11      This program would establish community development centers (CDVs)
as a conduit through which the government would channel economic and social
services to the urban poor. The CDVs would provide both space and facil-
ities for education, health, family welfare and vocational training units as
well as for the employment and productivity units. The education component
would include construction or repair of primary schools where necessary,
as well as provide for the extension and better utilization of existing
facílities. There would also be provision for teacher training and vocational
training, including management courses dealing with bookkeeping and materilas
purchasing.
3.12      The health unit would include medical and dental care facilities
with doctors, dentists and nurses in attendance supporting community based
health workers. In 1976, the Government began to install a regionalized
national system of health services which ensures equitable access, with high
priority on preventive care, mother-and-child health services, including
family planning, environmental sanitation and child and family welfare centers.
The system would also delegate more functions to para-professional personnel,
and would promote active community involvement in program development and
control.
3.13      The health system would operate at three levels.  At the community
level, a trained community health worker selected locally by the community
would cover about 2,000 persons, and would render basic health, nutrition and
population services through home visits. The second level would consist of a
health post staffed by two auxiliary nurses who would supervise about four
health workers. Each of these units would be called a MAC (Module of Expanded
Coverage). The MACs would be based at health centers which, in the case of
the urban areas, would be located in the CDVs and would be under the direction
of a physician. The local hospital would form the third tier of the system
and would receive patients from the health posts and centers, in addition to
servicing patients in its immediate, usually urban neighborhood. It would
relate to the regional hospital which would refer patients to the university
hospitals. Under the system, a considerable reduction in costs per health
case is anticipated, since an estimated 85% of health problems would be
handled at the local level by auxiliary personnel rather than by physicians.
Increased Employment and Productivity
3.14      This part of the program is designed to result in higher family
productivity and income through the creation of employment opportunties,
training programs and provision of technical assistance and credit to indi-
vidual and community enterprises. The employment and productivity units
(UPEs) would provide the coordinating mechanism to accomplish this.



- 8 -
3.15      The UPEs would act as a catalyst promoting CFP credits for working
capital and investment purposes, and would be developed on the experience of a
recently completed USAID financial program for credit to small enterprises.
In addition, the UPE would coordinate its activities with the National Appren-
ticeship Service (SENA). The employment and productivity units would also
promote, organize and help develop savings and loans cooperatives in the
target areas.
Improved Physical and Environmental Conditions
3.16      Through consultation with community groups, projects for construct-
ing water facilities, area improvement projects and sites and services housing
would be implemented. Once a program has been agreed upon, the local public
utility company would instalL water, and in some cases sewerage, utilizing
loans made available by the Instituto Nacional de Fomento-Municipal (INSFOPAL).
Credit would also be made available to individuals for land tenure, home
improvement and sites and services purposes, utilizing loans made available by
the national housing agency, Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT).
D. Related Programs
Introduction
3.17      An important expression of recent policy in Colombia has been the
trend in external assistance during the last decade. Since 1968 external
assistance has included programs and activities which carried social as well
as economic benefits. For instance, IDB has assisted projects in low-cost
housing, rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water
supply and land erosion. USAID has supported programs in education, urban
development and small farm development. More recently, it has moved to small
project loans aimed chiefly at improving the distribution of income. It is
expected to phase out its aid program in Colombia in the current year.
Education
3.18      The government intends to provide universal primary education by
1979. Accordingly, the government is undertaking a large program for school-
room construction. Under this program, which will absorb about 12% of the
projected public sector investment program for 1977-82, 32,000 new schoolrooms
are to be constructed with 24,000 being in rural areas. In this connection,
the Bank made an education loan of US$21.3 million in July 1973, which was
used in part to finance rural primary schools.
3.19      Development of vocational education has also been stressed.  Such
programs are being developed through collaboration between the Ministry of
Education and National Apprenticeship Service (SENA). Enrollments in SENA
courses have increased from 105,770 in 1968 to 390,000 in 1975 and were esti-
mated to be 530,000 in 1976. SENA has concentrated, in particular, on de-
veloping urban and rural mobile programs started in 1967. These programs,



-9-
which are intended to cover mainly low income groups who are unable to par-
ticipate in regular programs, have proved to be very popular, and by 1976
accounted for about 40% of SENA's total enrollment. The proposed urban
project would support these programs by financing primary and vocational
education in low income urban areas.
Health and Nutrition
3.20      Though health standards have improved in recent years, substantial
segments of the population are still without adequate services. The private
sector provides medical services to about 15% of the total population, while
the social security system covers 10%. The Ministry of Health and its
affiliated agencies cover approximately 40% of the population, which leaves
35% or an estimated 8.5 million people without health services. About 75%
of these have incomes below the official poverty level.
3.21      To improve health services the government is changing the admin-
istrative structure of its efforts, and has included health components in
its urban and rural development and nutrition programs. The central fea-
ture of the modified national health system is the decentralization of health
services with four clearly defined levels - rural, local, regional and univer-
sity linked. The base of the system is located at the community level. The
proposed urban project would support this program through its health com-
ponent, which would act as one of the delivery mechanisms to extend the
government's program to the urban poor.
3.22      In this connection the Bank has already made a US$52 million
rural development loan to Colombia which includes components for health,
nutrition, primary schools, and water supply in the rural areas. In addi-
tion, the Bank has made a US$25 million integrated nutrition project which
aims at reducing the gap between food needs and intake of the most nutri-
tionally vulnerable groups in both rural and urban areas as well as improved
environmental sanitation. The project, which is community based, would help
the government achieve its major nutrition objectives by improving the nutri-
tion conditions and living standards of around 1.8 million persons living
below the poverty line. The implementation of this project would be coordi-
nated with the proposed urban development project.
Employment and Productivity
3.23      One of the government's principal objectives is to foster more
balanced regional growth and increased employment. In order to achieve this
the government has been expanding its credit operations to small scale
enterpríses. In this connection, the Bank has already made two loans
totalling US$20.5 million. The proposed urban development project would
support this program by financing a small-scale credit component aimed at
the low-income urban areas. The proposed project would also use the same
implementing agency, Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP).
Water Supply and Sewerage
3.24      The government continues to stress the need for improved sanita-
tion facilities. Thus the existing rural development and nutritional programs



- 10 -
had a water and sewerage component. In addition, the Bank has already made
two loans amounting to US$36.1 míllion to the national water supply and
sewerage agency, Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), for 15 medium-
size cities and 30 towns. Correspondingly, IDB made two loans amounting
to US$10.6 míllion for 327 towns, while USAID made a water supply and sewerage
sector loan of US$29 million in June 1971. The proposed urban develop-
ment project would support these objectives by extending water supply and
sewerage to the low-income urban areas. The proposed project would also
use the same implementing agency, Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL),
and would be consistent with the overall sector policies established in
the previous loans.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
Introduction
4.01      The proposed project would be the Bank's first direct operation in
the urban development sector in Colombia, and is the first phase of the
government's national program for urban poverty--Programa de Integracion de
Servicios y Participacion Comunítaria (IPC). Technical and economic studies
were carried out by the National Planning Department (DNP), together with
the executing agency, Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) and the par-
ticipating communities. The proposed project, which is realistic and repre-
sents a substantial modification of previous investment plans, has the follow-
ing objectives:
(a) to improve the living standards and productive
capacity of about 550,000 Colombians living in
relative poverty in 23 cities throughout the
country;
(b) to enable the government through systematic monitor-
ing and evaluation to refine the program and assure
its sustained cost effectiveness as coverage expands,
both during the life of the project and thereafter;
and
(c) to strengthen the managerial base which plans and
executes the program.
Project Concept
4.02      The proposed project would be carried out during the 1978-81
period, and would be implemented in the 23 intermediate cities which
have been identified as having the highest concentration of urban poor,
low provision of infrastructure services, and generally poor environ-
mental conditions. The project would consist of the following:



- 11 -
(a) Improved Social Services, including the construction
of and equipment for community development centers, primary
schools, health centers, and child and family welfare
centers (CAIPs), as well as training of teachers, community
health staff and child welfare social workers.
(b) Increased Employment and Productivity, including mana-
gerial assistance for promotion and organization of
private and cooperative enterprises, training pro-
grams, and credit to small-scale industries;
(c)  Physical and Environmental Improvements, including area
upgrading through the regularization of land tenure,
credits for neighborhood and home improvement loans,
sites and services development, and basic infrastruc-
ture services such as water and sewerage; and
(d) Project Management and Evaluation, including strengthening
the ímplementing agencies by financing appropriate studies
and surveys; and strengthening the executing agency by
funding initial operating expenses and training programs so
that it will be better able to monitor, evaluate and refine
the project.
B. Definition of Seope
Income Levels
4.03      Data on the income levels of the residents in the cities to be
included in the proposed project support the following generalizations:
(a)  The degree of concentration of the poor in the intermediate
cities is about the same as that in the larger ones. In a
sample of 16 intermediate cities, 36% of the residents were in
the lowest income group--family incomes of less than US$500
per annum--while 25% of the residents of the four largest cities
were in the same category; and
(b)  Residents in the target zones have incomes less than the average
for the city in which they live.  In Cucuta, for example, the
average level of family annual earnings is US$600; in the project
zone family annual earnings are US$325. In Girardot, of the
seven neighborhoods in the target zone, five have family incomes
of less than the national poverty criteria of US$1300. In Pereira,
the proportion of residents in the two project zones with family
incomes under US$315 is 68%; for the city as a whole 60% are
under this level. In Tulua, the average level of annual earnings
is US$432; in the project zone it is US$216.



- 12 -
Catchment Zones
4.04      A high proportion of the residents of the target zones meet the
Bank's urban poverty identification criteria, which in the case of Colombia
is average family earnings of US$1,300 per annum. Nevertheless, not all
residents of the target zones are poor; nor do all the poor residents in the
23 cities always live in the target zones. The zones were defined in such a
way that most have populations of 10,000 to 25,000, the population considered
optimal for a community development center (CDV) catchment area. It is well
known that residential segregation by income is relatively low in Latin
American cities--rich and poor often live in fairly close proximity. Thus,
in constructing contiguous CDV catchment zones, some standard neighborhoods
had to be included along with the poorest ones. This mixing tends to mute the
income differences between the target zones and the remainder of the cities,
although it has relatively little impact on the specific services, since most
of them, such as lending and housing credits, have income criteria which limit
them to persons of low incomes. Correspondingly, the degree of heterogeniety
of the target zones vary from city to city. In some cities, the zones are
uniformly poor; in Pereira, where the project zone lies alongside a river,
the families closest to the river are poor, those a few hundred feet further
away are relatively well off.
C. Detailed Project Features
Introduction
4.05      The proposed project would integrate several related measures in
the employment, industrial, water supply, housing, health, education and
family welfare sectors. Correspondingly, each subproject consists of sev-
eral interrelated components. The principal components of each subproject
are outlined below, while the detailed features are described in the appro-
priate annexes. The unit cost estimates are in current prices, and reflect
physical contingencies as well as the most recent estimates of inflation and
exchange rates.
Social Services Subproject
4.06      The proposed subproject, which is detailed in Annex 1, seeks to
raise the living conditions of the target groups through improved social
services available to the family. The four principal components are des-
cribed below.
Community Development Centers (CDVs)
4.07      The CDV component would construct facilities for education, health,
vocational training, employment and productivity, and child and family welfare
centers. Correspondingly, the facilities would be used as the main coordinat-
ing center of the project at the local level, and would contain the organi-
zational units of some of the various sectors. Where facilities already exist
in an area, utilization would be optimized before new ones would be constructed.



- 13 -
4.08      It is estimated that this component would benefit 550,000 people at
an average per capita cost of US$15.4, while the average annual per capita
operating cost would be US$0.3. Specifically, the component would include:
(a) construction and/or optimization of 27 modular installa-
tions, flexible in design to accommodate increased demand
through phased expansion;
(b) utilization to the extent possible of local manpower
and construction materíals; and
(c)  operational improvements through establishing uniform
design standards.
Education
4.09      The education component is aimed at increasing primary education
coverage which in some cases now stands as low as 40% of the eligible
population, to a target level of 95% in all areas. In this connection, it
is estimated that space and facilities would be provided for an additional
22,000 students; an increase of 25% over existing levels. The estimated
average per capita cost of the component is US$175, while the estimated
annual per capita operating cost is US$44.  Specifically the component
would include:
(a)  construction and furnishing of 280 new classrooms, including
166 sanitary units,81 sports fields and 84 administrative
units, in accordance with national uniform design standards,
as well as renovating 86 existing classrooms;
(b) purchase and installation of teaching aids and equip-
ment for 366 classrooms;
(c) training of 598 additional teachers and upgrading 2,342
teachers, which would consist of a 60 hour course for
all teachers and a 120 hour course for teachers who
have not attended training school or completed high
school.
(d) improvements in the organization of school facilities
to accommodate increased student enrollment through
the use of double shifts; and
(e) optimizing existing classroom facilities through
multiple use functions such as adult education pro-
grams and related community activities.
Health
4.10      The health component is aímed at bringing preventive and cura-
tive community-based health, nutrition and population services to the tar-
get groups. Each health center would have a full-time physician and a



- 14 -
full-time dentist. Together with two existing Bank financed rural development
and nutrition projects, this component would constitute the major portion of
the governmnent's effort in the health sector. It is estimated that this
component would benefit 550,000 people at an average per capita cost of
US$1.3, while the estimated annual per capita operating cost would be US$2.3.
Specifically, the component would include:
(a)  constructíon, purchase and installation of equipment
for 27 commnunity health centers, utilizing the space
provided irl the CDVs;
(b)  purchase and installation of equipment for mobile
health personnel;
(c)  training of auxiliary nurses and health promoters;
(d)  optimizing the use of the health centers by integrat-
ing the conunon features of the urban and nutrition
projects ¡ito one delivery mechanism.
Child and Family Welfare Centers (CAIPS)
4.11      The component airms at providing preschool day care, nutritional and
family welfare advisory programs for the target groups. In addition, the
component aims at decentralizing existing facilities, so that services may be
provided to a larger number of people at a smaller per capita cost. Most
basic services would be rendered in private homes, by women who would be
required to register wíth, and would be supervised by the CAIP, and would
receive training and certain basic educational equipment, would care for up
to 10 chíldren each, and would be offered loans to improve their houses for
purposes of these services. These women would be paid a wage and charge
traditional fees. Although the Bank will not be disbursing against this
component, it complements the existing components by ensuring that the project
focus will not only be directed at the adult population, but also at children
as well.
4.12      It is estimated that this component would benefit about 8,100 pre-
school children at an average per capita cost of US$138, while the estimated
average annual per capita operating cost would be US$93. Specifically, the
component would include:
(a)  construction, purchase and installation of equipment
for 27 CAIPS, utilizing space provided in the CDVs;
(b)  establishiírg community day care programs in decen-
tralized locations such as private homes, and
strengthening the community outreach capacity by
financing seeminars and training programs for the
proper operation of the program; and
(e) purchase and installation of equipment and training
aids for use in decentralized locations.



- 15 -
Employment and Productivity Credits Subproject
4.13      The proposed subproject, which is detailed in Annex 2 aims at
increasing production, employment and incomes in the target areas by expanding
the availability of credit to small-scale enterprises, and by providing train-
ing and technical assistance. The three principal components are described
below.
Employment and Productivity Unit (UPE)
4.14      The employment component aims at improving skills of workers and
managerial competence of entrepreneurs. The services provided by each unit
would be coordinated by a full-time manager. Training and technical assist-
ance would be provided by the Ministry of Education and National Apprentice-
ship Service (SENA). It is estimated that SENA would deliver between 3,000
and and 4,000 hours of training per CDV per annum, training a total of 26,000
people at an average per capita cost of US$134.8 The estimated annual per
capita operating cost would be US$19.2. Specifically, the component would
include:
(a) purchase of equipment and vehicles for purposes of
the component;
(b) technical assistance to individuals and small enter-
prises in preparing projects in management and marketing
and gaining access to credit;
(c) job training and basic skills improvement through SENA's
urban mobile program; and
(d) technical assistance and seed capital for small-scale
savings and loans cooperatives, which would make loans to
its members normally not exceeding US$300 equivalent for
working capital and purchase of items such as tools and
construction materials.
Productive Credits
4.15      The component would support a program costing approximately US$4
million of investments in credits to individuals and small-scale enterprises.
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), which has had previous Bank experience,
would implement the component. CFP would provide training to the managers
referred to in paragraph 4.14, and SENA's staff assigned to each CDV. The
employment impact of this component is high, and it is estimated that about
3,800 new direct jobs would be created at an average total cost of about
US$1,050 per direct job, which is quite reasonable in the light of Colombia's
urban conditions.



- 16 -
4.16      The recipients would be limited to cooperatives with total assets
below US$100,000 equivalent and to very small enterprises with maximum total
assets of US$15,000, provided they do not belong to an industrial or business
group with total assets above US$50,000 equivalent. Anyone with assets above
the amounts indicated would be referred to CFP's normal lending where the
applicable interest rate is 24% (see paragraph 5.07). Thus, many borrowers
whose assets increased fol]owing borrowing under the credit component, would
graduate to CFP's normal lending program with its higher interest rates when
contracting later loans.
4.17      The borrowers would be very small and would consist of small-scale
enterprises in the slum areas, who in the past have had little access to the
credit markets, no matter how profitable they might have been.  Generally,
each enterprise would employ less than 5 people. The component would provide
about 1,800 small-scale credits for capital goods, industrial construction,
and working capital requirements. Collateral, although a loan condition,
would be reduced in certain cases. In order to service the project areas ín
cities where CFP has no offices but Banco popular has them, CFP and BP would
make the necessary arrangements to work through BP's facilities.
Training and Technical Assistance
4.18      The technical assistance component aims at providing managerial,
marketing, planning, and production assistance to solve specific problems
of both individuals and small-scale enterprises. In this regard, emphasis
would be placed on improving the skills of workers, and close coordination
would be maintained with the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA), who would
have full responsibility for íts implementation. The trainíng given by SENA
would correspond to the needs of each particular community, established on the
basis of surveys. Moreover, assurances should be obtained that SENA would have
full responsibility for the implementation of the component.
4.19      Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) also provides technical assis-
tance to small- and medium-scale industry. Since mid-1975, CFP's technical
assistance has improved significantly with the assistance of USAID and UNIDO.
Physical and Environmental Improvements Subproject
4.20      The proposed subproject, which is detailed in Annex 3 aims at
improving the physical and environmental conditions of the target areas by
expanding the credit operations of the national housing agency, Instituto de
Credito Territorial (ICT), as well as the credit operations of the national
water supply and sewerage agency, Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL).
The subproject is divided into four principal components. The ICT operations
will cover the Regularization of Land Tenure, Home Improvement Loans and
Sites and Services developments in the project areas.



- 17 -
Regularization of Land Tenure Credits
4.21      The land tenure component would support a program costing approxi-
mately US$1.7 million of investments in credits to municipalities, community
groups and individuals for land use and ownership studies, cadastral surveys,
acquisition and regularization surveys, as well as legal fees for the transfer
of title to settlers.  At the present time, about 43,000 households or 48% of
the residents in the target areas are without legal title to their land.
Under this component all of these households would acquire the right of
occupancy, which is the first stage in the process of obtaining title.
Both ICT and INSFOPAL are empowered to engage in operations under such an
arrangement. In tandem with the construction of physical improvements, titles
will be processed to approximately 30,000 households at an average cost of
about US$57 per title. The balance of the 12,000 households will be processed
in future programs.
Home Improvements Credits
4.22      This component would support a program costing approximately
US$13.1 million of investments in supervised credits to individuals for
home improvement purposes. In this connection, it is estimated that about
18,400 householders, or about 40% of the potential borrowers, would obtain
loans averaging about US$712 each.
4.23      The component is designed to assist eligible families (see Annex 3 -
para. 36) in the target areas by providing small credits for the instal-
lation and construction of sanitary facilities, improvements to the existing
accommodations and expansion to the size of the house where this is deemed
to be necessary. Most of the work is done on a do-it-yourself basis, and
in this regard, technical assistance is supplied free of charge to those
families desiring it. The component would be closely coordinated with the
installation of water supply and sewerage facilities, and residents would be
encouraged to connect as quickly as possible.
Sites and Services Credits
4.24      The sites and services component would support a program costing
approximately US$8.7 under which about 7,300 sites would be made available.
Loans will be granted to eligible individuals (see Annex 3 - para. 36) for the
purchase of serviced sites and for construction of shelters. The average
loan, which is estimated at US$1,192, is affordable by the lowest 20 per-
centile of the population, and can purchase a fully serviced lot with a
construction loan for a minimum shelter. These developments will be governed
by agreed procurement procedures and the sites will be priced and sold on
terms agreed upon with the Bank (see Annex 3 - para. 17).
4.25      In line with the regularization and improvement of the target areas,
about 6,600 households, or 7% of the total would have to be resettled. The
area improvement plan would identify the extent of the resettlement require-
ments and to the extent possible, would provide for resettlement within the



- 18 -
same general proximity. In addition to replacing those houses eliminated,
the component would also provide for a net addition of about 700 homes to the
new housing stock. In this regard, the component would offer the following
options:
(a) a basic serviced lot with no construction--at an
average cost of Col$18,000 which would be geared to
families earning up to Col$12,000 per annum and
would be affordable by families with incomes as low
as Col$6,500 per annum (see Annex 3, para. 20);
(b) a serviced lot with a sanitary core--at an average
cost of Col$36,500 which would be geared to families
earning up to Col$16,800 per annum and would be afford-
able by families with incomes as low as Col$13,000 per
annuam (see Annex 3, para. 20); and
(c) a minimum unit consisting of a serviced lot, sanitary
core and an enclosed one room shelter--at an average
cost of Col$53,000 which would be geared to families
earning up to Col$33,400 per annum would be affordable
by families with incomes as low as Col$19,000 per annum
(see Annex 3, para. 20).
Water Supply and Sewerage
4.26      The water supply and sewerage component would support a program
costing approximately US$12.4 million of investments in loans to munici-
palities or their respective water supply and sewerage companies for extending
the distribution systems to the target areas. Priority would be given to water
supply, and detailed designs have already been prepared for the first four
citíes. Designs for the remainder would be available by end of 1978. In this
respect, it is estimated that 280,000 people, or 40,000 households would be
connected to water at an average per capita cost of US$44. Sewerage would be
provided on a limited basis and would depend on the availability of funds, as
well as on the resources of the local utility companies. Specifically, the
component would consist of:
(a) construction of water transmission pipelines to trans-
port water from existing production facilities, con-
struction of distribution network; installation of
water meters;
(b) rehabilitation and reinforcement of existing water distri-
bution networks, where necessary; establishment of a leak
detection and repair program and pitometric investigations;
and
(c) construction of sewerage collection network.



- 19 -
Project Management and Evaluation Subproject
4.27      The proposed subproject aims at the national level and seeks to
strengthen the project base by providing an administrative framework for its
execution. The three principal components of the subproject are described
below.
Project Implementation Plans and Studies
4.28      The overall planning and development of the project, including
the detailed designs of the first four cities were funded by the govern-
ment. This component would provide funds for detailed studies dealing with
the social services, employment and productivity, and the physical environ-
mental aspects of the other 19 cities. Equipment and materials would be
included as part of the component.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29      The different components of the project would be monitored to de-
termine their progress toward goals and implementation schedules laid down
previously. This would be done at the local and national levels. Specifi-
cally, the component would finance studies of:
(a)  management effectiveness of the integrated programs;
(b)  intra-family benefits and cost effectiveness of the
education, health, child and family welfare, and
nutrition components;
(c)  effects of the skills improvement and small-scale
credit components on the productivity of adult
workers; and
(d)  benefits and effects of the basic services and shelter
component and their cost effectiveness.
Project Management
4.30      The component would cover the investment costs and initial operating
expenses of the unit involved in planning and executing the project. This
would complement the technical assistance being provided by the Dutch Govern-
ment in setting up the unit and programming the project.
V. COSTS, FINANCING, RECOVERY, AND LOAN ADMINISTRATION
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      The estimated cost of the project is US$62 million.  The cost
estimates are detailed in Annex 4. Base cost estimates were prepared in
January 1977, and were updated to estimated price levels of December 31, 1977



- 20 -
after verification of direct inquiries of civil works contractors and equip-
ment manufacturers. A physical contingency of 15% on base cost estimates was
allowed on all components except credit. A total price contingency of 44% was
included for expected price inflation on all local and foreign cost items, ex-
cept land and productive credits. A summary of the cost estimates is shown
below.
Cost Estimates
US$ millions             Col$ millions
Item                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Social Services Subproject
Community Development Centers   3.6        1.2      4.8      191       64     255
Education                          1.9     0.4      2.3      103       21      124
Health                             0.3     0.1      0.4       20        4       24
Child and Family Welfare           0.6     0.1      0.7       30        6       36
6.4     1.8      8.2      344       95     439
Employment & Productivity
Subproject
Vocational Training                1.4     0.7      2.1       74       39     113
Small Enterprises Credits         3.3      0.8      4.1      175       44     219
Technical Assistance               0.1      -       0.1        3        -        3
4.8     1.5      6.3      252       83     335
Physical & Environmental
Improvement Subproject
Regularization of Land Tenure   0.9        0.3      1.2       48       16       64
Home Improvement Loans             5.9     2.0      7.9      317      106     423
Sites & Services                   3.9     1.3      5.2      209       69     278
Water Supply & Sewerage            5.1      1.7     6.8      272       91      363
15.8     5.3    21.1       846      282    1128
Project Management
& Evaluation                         3.0     0.5      3.5      159       27      186
Engineering & Supervision
(10%)                              0.7      0.4     1.1       41       19       60
Base Costs                        30.7     9.5    40.2    1642        506    2148
Physical Contingencies /a            4.0      1.2     5.2      207       63      270
Price Escalation /a                 14.8      3.8    16.6      681      204      885
Project Cost           47.4    14.5    62.0    2530        773    3303
/a   A physical contingency of 15% on base cost estimates as well as a price
contingency of 44% on both local and foreign cost items, including phy-
sical contingencies was allowed for all subprojects except the Small
Enterprises Credit Program.



- 21 -
B. Financing
Financing Plan
5.02      The total capital requirements during the 1978-81 period are US$62
millíon.  The foreign exchange costs of the proposed project amount to US$14.5
million.  The proposed Bank loan of US$24.8 million, would finance the full
foreign exchange cost of the project as well as US$10.3 million in local
costs, and would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace. The
government would assume the foreign exchange risk on the proposed Bank loan,
and would make the peso equivalent available to the implementing agencies on a
non-reimbursable basis. The equity contributions are in line with government
policy to strengthen the financial capacity of certain institutions so that
they would be better able to implement and finance futher projects in the
future.
5.03      The financing plan includes direct equity contributions from the
government of US$19.5 míllion, and indirect equity contributions through the
implementing agencies of US$3.1 million, which would finance 37% of the total
investment requirements. This would be in addition to the proposed Bank loan
of US$24.8 million, which would finance 40% of the investments. In addition
US$12.6 million, or 20% of total investment requirements, would be provided
from the internal resources of the Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT).
The Banco Popular has agreed to provide US$2.0 million which accounts for the
other 3%. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that the govern-
ment and the implementing agencies would provide the necessary funds under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The financing plan is shown on
the following page.



- 22 -
Financing Plan
Partici-
1978-81                  National      pating
('in millions)    IBRD       Budget       Agencies
US$   Col$   Col$   %    Col$   $    Col$   %
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Social Services
Land                          0.3      16      -    -       16  100      -    -
Community Development
Centers                     8.2    437   175    40    262   60         -    -
Education--Equipment          3.8    199    80    40    119   60         -    -
--Training          0.1       7      4    50       3   50      -    -
Health   --Equipment          0.6      37    15    40       22   60      -    -
--Training          0.1       2      1    50       1   50      -    -
Family & Chiíld Welfare       1.1      60      -    -       -    -       60  100
14.2    758   275            423            60
Employment & Product:ivity
Vocational Training
-- Equipment                1.2      64    26    40       -    -       38   60
-- Traíning                 2.3    124    62    50        -    -       62   50
Small Enterprises Credits   4.0    209   105    50                      104   50
Savings & Loans Co-ops        0.2      10      -    -       10  100      -    -
Technical Assistance          0.1       5      -    -       -    -        5  100
7.8    412   193             10          209
Physical & Environinental
Land regularization &
tenure                     1.7      91     -    -        -    -       91  100
Home improvement loans       :L3.1    702   351    50       -    -      351   50
New housing (S&S)             8.7    462   231    50        -    -      231   50
Water supply & sewerage    12.4    662   265    40    397   60           -    -
35.9  1,917   847            397          673
Project Management &
Evaluation                     4.1    216       -    -      216  100      -    -
TOTAL           62.0  3,303 1,315    40  1,046   32    942   18
SOURCE OF FUNDS
National Government          19.5  1,046       -    -   1,046   32       -    -
Resources of participating
agencies                                                              673   20
ICT                      12.6    673      -    -       -    -      104    3
SENA                      2.0    105      -    -       -    -       105    3
ICBF                      1.1      60     -    -       -    -        60    2
Banco Popular                 2.0    104       -    -       -    -       -    -
IBRD loan                    24.8  1,315 1,315    40
TOTAL           62.0  3,303 1,315    40  1,046   32    942   28



- 23 -
C. Cost Recovery
Introduction
5.04      About 63% of the project investment costs would be partially recover-
ed by the implementing agencies from the ultimate beneficiaries in programs
for the recovery of investments, and would include (i) the productive credits
component, the cost of which is US$4 million; (íi) the regularization of land
tenure component, the cost of which is US$1.7 million, (iii) the neighborhood
and home improvements component, the cost of which is US$13.1 million; (iv)
the sites and services component, the cost of which is US$8.7 million; and (v)
the water supply and sewerage component, the cost of which is US$12.4 million.
The cost of the social services subproject, which consists of the CDV, educa-
tion, health and child and family welfare components as well as the project
management and evaluated components, would not be recovered from the ultimate
beneficiary by direct user charges. These components account for the other
37%, and would be financed through the national budget. Details of the
mechanisms are outlined below.
Social Services Subproject
5.05      The government would impose certain cost recovery elements on the
health component in an effort to reduce annual operating costs. In this
respect, beneficiaries would be required to contribute to the cost of drugs
provided at the health centers, and for higher levels of health care such as
hospitals. It ís estimated that these recoveries would offset about 10% of
the annual operating costs of the health centers. Assurances regarding this
were obtained during loan negotiations.
Employment and Productivity Subprolect
5.06      Investment in the training and technical assistance components would
not be recovered. Seed capital amounting to US$0.2 million for savings and
loans cooperatives would be provided by the government on a non-reimbursable
basis. The productive credits, which is 60% of the cost of the subproject and
which would be administered by Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), would be
partially recovered in the following manner:
(a)  US$2.0 million equivalent of the Bank loan proceeds would be
transferred on a non-reimburseable basis by the government to
CFP in pesos.   Banco Popular (BP) would match these funds at
an annual interest rate of 18%, but otherwise on the same
terms as the Bank Loan, so that the average cost to CFP would
be 9% per annum;
(b) CFP would charge the ultimate beneficiary an interest rate
of 18% per annum, which would yield an interest spread of 9



- 24 -
percentage points. Repayment terms would have minimum
maturities of not less than 2 years including not less
than 6 months of grace in the case of working capital
financing, and not less than 4 years including not less
than 1 year of grace in the case of fixed asset financing
or a combination thereof; and
(c) Defaults would be at the risk of CFP.
5.07      Due to the recent high levels of inflation in Colombia--to over 30%
per annum--it is unlikely that CFP's onlending rate will be positive in the
early stages of disbursement under this phase of the project. However, the
rate of inflation is expected to decline over the next few years as a result
of the Government's stabilization efforts and lessened monetary stimulus
arising from the external sector. It is expected, therefore, that CFP's
onlending rate will gradually turn positive in real terms. The proposed
interest rate is justified by the present marginal economic viability of many
of the target enterprises and their need for assistance during their gestation
period.
Physical and Environmental Improvements Subproject
5.08      The ICT credits for the land tenure, home improvements, and
sites and services components would finance about 90% of the investments
and would have the following terms:
(i) land tenure credits would bear interest at the rate of
13.8% per annum with repayment terms of up to 15 years;
(ii) home improvements credits would bear interest at the rate
of 14% per annum with terms up to 15 years; and
(iii) sites and services credits would bear interest at the
rate of 13.8% per annum with terms up to 15 years.
5.09      The subproject would be financed and the costs would be recovered
from the ultimate beneficiary in the following manner:
(a) US$10.9 million equivalent of the Bank loan proceeds would be
transferred by the government to ICT, in pesos, as a govern-
ment equity contribution. This is in line with government
polícy to strengthen its sector institutions. ICT, on the
other hand, would provide US$12.6 million in funds from its
own resources;
(b) ICT would on-lend the funds at the interest rates and repayment
terms described above; and



- 25 -
(c) In the case of the land tenure component, where funds
are on-lent by the municipalities, the costs would be
recovered by the municipalities from the ultimate bene-
ficiary either in the form of sale of titles, valorization
taxes or through general property taxes.
5.10      Notwithstanding the recent acceleration in the rate of inflation
in Colombia, it is expected that ICT's interest rates under this phase of the
project will gradually turn positive by the end of the commitment period
when most of the commitments are expected to be concentrated. The Govern-
ment has taken decisive measures to control inflation and some progress is
now apparent in this regard. With continued good economic management, in-
flation should decrease significantly over the next few years.  The interest
rate subsidy during the early part of the commitment period is justified by
the high social content of the component which provides for one of the most
basic needs (housing services) of the target population, most of whom are
below the poverty line.
5.11      The funds repaid by the ultimate beneficiaries would be used
to capitalize a fund to replicate the components for other slum areas in the
future. Assurances were obtaíned during loan negotiations that ICT would
finance these components in the manner specified in paragraphs 5.09 and 5.10,
and that the funds repaid would be used to benefit other slum areas in the
future.
5.12      The water supply and sewerage component would cost US$12.4 million
and would be financed in two parts: (í) US$5.0 million equivalent from the
Bank loan proceeds; and (ii) US$7.4 million equivalent from the government.
The total amount would be channelled on a non-reimbursable basis through
INSFOPAL, who would act as the implementing agency.
5.13      INSFOPAL would transfer US$5.0 million equivalent to the partici-
pating empresas as an equity contribution, while US$7.4 million equivalent
would be on-lent under the following terms and conditions:
(a) US$5.0 million would be on-lent to the empresas at 12%,
repayable on the same terms as the Bank loan, to cover 40%
of the cost of the investments, while
(b)  US$2.4 million would be on-lent to the empresas at 12%
and otherwise on the same terms as the Bank loan and/or
as equity to finance up to 20% of the cost of the invest-
ments -- the proportion to be determined separately in each
case as determined by INSFOPAL in accordanced with criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 26 -
5.14      The funds repaid by the empresas to INSFOPAL would be used to
capitalize a fund to replicate the component for other slum areas in the
future. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that: (i)
covenants of outstanding loan agreements between the Bank, INSFOPAL and the
participating empresas would be maintained; and (ii) that funds repaid would
be used to finance similar projects in the future.
5.15      The empresas would set tariff levels sufficíent to recover 100% of
the costs of the investment. Of the funds collected by the empresas from the
ultimate beneficiary, an amount equal to the government equity contribution
would be set aside to create a reserve for future water and sewerage invest-
ments. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that particípating
empresas not included in existing loan agreements would be subject to the same
covenants, and that of the funds collected from the ultimate beneficiary from
tariff charges, an amount equal to the government equity contribution be set
aside as a reserve to finance similar projects in the future.
D.  Loan Administration
Implementation
5.16      The project would be carried out by the Secretaria de Integracion
Popular (SIP) during the 1978-81 period. The project has been planned irl
such a way that all components would proceed in tandem for each target area,
and that during the construction period, the greatest advantage would be
taken of the dry season each year. Assurances were obtained during loan
negotiations that an implementation program satisfactory to the Bank wou]d be
included in the area development plans prepared for each target area.
Procurement
5.17      Because of the dispersed nature of the project areas and the loca-
tion of project sites in areas which have until very recently been íllegally
settled, it is ICT's experience that reliable contractors are unlikely tc bid
competitively on the contracts for the construction of the CDV facilities in
these areas.  It is proposed that these contracts, which in aggregate would
cost US$8.2 million, would be carried out by ICT through the direct adminis-
tration of small local contractors chosen in accordance with ICT's tendering
procedures. ICT managers are required by law to go out to competitive bids on
contracts over US$15,000. Contracts below this sum can be awarded through
negotiations, local shopping or be executed by force account. In special
cases which would be subject to the review and approval of ICT headquarters
and the Bank, local offices would execute works over US$15,000 through force
account. ICT has had long experience in the direct administration of con-
struction works in similar areas and is competent to execute this component
effectively. This procedure will have the added benefits of guaranteeing the
employment of labor and utilizing components supplied by small manufacturers



- 27 -
from the local area, which is ICT's policy in such contracts, and increasing
community participation which is an objective of the project. ICT and SENA
already have a working relationship in whích SENA provides on-the-job train-
ing for local labor and small subcontractors on ICT sites, and promotes and
assists small local subcontractors and local construction materials manufac-
turers to supply these contracts.
5.18      As the largest civil works contract is estimated to be less than
US$500,000 and the majority to be less than US$250,000, it is expected that
Colombian contractors will win all of these. Civil works contracts will
therefore be awarded through local competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines. All contracts for the supply of equipment and materials
in excess of US$150,000 would be awarded throilgh international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance wíth Bank guidelines. Foreígn suppliers
are expected to win most contracts for imported equipment. For bid evaluation
purposes under international competitive bidding, a margin of 15% or the value
of the customs duties, whichevier is lower, would be allowed for materials and
equipment manufactured in Colombia.
Disbursements
5.19      The Bank loan proceeds would be disbursed over a four-year period
and would finance:
(a) 40% of total expenditures for civil. works;
(b)  40% of total expenditures for equipment and materials
(c)  50% of total expend.Ltures for training of staff;
(d) 50% of the amounts d1sbursed by CFP under t.he program
of productive credit:s;
(e)  50% of amounts disbtírsed by ICT under credits for home
improvements and sit:es and services; and
5.20      Disbursement applications would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank by Secretaria Integraciorn Popular. All claims for withdrawal of loan
proceeds would be fully documented. The closing date would be June 30, 1982.
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENI
Oyerall Policy and ImplesentaLíon Responsibilities
6.01      The Secretaria de Iritegracion Popular (SIP) would be responsible for
carrying out the project, with. the ministries of Development, Education,
Health and Human Resources who  have- the appropriate sectoral responsibility.
Each ministry has had previous experience with similar programs in the past.
As shown by the table below, t le principal implementing agencies are:



- 28 -
Subproject and Component           Ministry                 Implementing Agency
Socíal Services
Community Development Centers       Development        -- Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
Educatíon                           Education          -- Institute of School
Constructíon (ICCE)
-- Regional Education Fund (FER)
Health                              Health             -- Ministry of Health
Family and Child Welfare            Health             -- Institute of Family Welfare
(ICBF)
Employment and Productivíty
Vocational Training                Human Resources   -- National Apprenticeship
Service (SENA)
Small Industry Credit               Development        -- Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP)
Technical Assistance                Human Resources   -- National Apprenticeship
Service (SENA)
Presidency         -- Secretariat for Popular
Integracion (SIP)
Physical and Environmental Improvements
Land Tenure                           Development    -- Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
Housing & Area Improvements           Development        Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
New Housing                           Development        Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT)
Water Supply and Sewerage             Health          -- Instituto de Fomento
Municipal (INSFOPAL)
6.02      The programmíng, l-udgeting, accounting, procurement and procedural
responsibilities for each participating community, imjplementing agency, and
ministry would be covered by an agreement with SIP. .Assurances were obtaíned
that each implementing agency would have full respcnsibility for the implemen-
tation of its respective coLuponent, and that the Secretaria de Integracion
Popular would enter into operational agreements witti the appropriate ímplemen-
ting agencies on terms and conditions satisfactory t:o the Bank; such agree-
ments would be a condition of effectiveness of the F,roposed loan.
6.03      Each implementing agency would supply the necessary core staff, and
this staff, together with the CDV manager would be retsponsible for coordinat-
ing, implementing and refining cif the program.  Assuv^ances were obtained
during loan negotiations that:
(a) there would be CDV managers and community levelopment promoters,
as well as suitably qualified core staff iín adequate numbers in the
education, health, and community day care components, who would have
adequate qualifícatíons and expenrience; a.nd



- 29 -
(b) the government would undertake to staff in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank all components of the project during the period
of the loan.
Organizational Structure of SIP
6.04      Primary responsibility for coordinating, monitoring and evaluation
of the project rests with the Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP), which
is under the direction of a seven-member National Council appointed by the
President of Colombia. The National Council consísts of one representative
each from .he Depa:tment of National Planning, Ministry of Health, Institute
of Family Welfare, the National Apprenticeship Service (SENA), the Nationr11
Housing Agency (ICT) and the National Water Supply and Sewerage Agency
(INSFOPAL). Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that all
participating agencies would be represented on the National Council.
6.05      SIP is headquartered in Bogota, but maintains regional coordinators
in each of the target cities. The organizational structure is described in
Annex 5. For the purpose of administering the proposed project, SIP is
divided into two major departments--administrative and operations, each
headed by a division chief and reporting to a subdirector. The administra-
tive division is further subdivided into two sections--budget and financial
analysis, as well as accounting and payroll. The operations division is
subdivided into three sections--programming and evaluation, community promo-
tion, and employment and productivity - all of which are located at central
headquarters in Bogota. In addition, the operations division would manage
the activities of 27 CDV managers and the community development promotors.
6.06      SIP would have a total of 82 staff members assigned to the pro-
posed project, of which 9 would work in the administrative department,
67 would work in the operations department, and 6 would be assigned
to the office of the Executive Director. Among the total staff members
working in SIP, 2 hold executive positions and 3 have specialized training
in urban development. The appointment of the Executive Director is clearly
political and may be subject to change. However, the next level of manage-
ment is fairly stable and although relatively inexperienced, is generally
considered competent. In this connection the Netherlands Government has
supplied two experts for two years each as part of a technical assistance
program to strengthen the institution in the general area of programming
and management and to assist in setting up the employment and productivity
component.
6.07      One of the major objectives of SIP should be to increase the level
of efficiency and effectiveness of its community outreach. This would be
accomplished by upgrading the operations division. The management and eval-
uation subproject provides funds to assist SIP in achieving this objective.
Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that SIP would carry
out the management and evaluation subproject in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, and would review the progress of this subproject with the Bank.



- 30 -
Coordinating arid ProgrammirLg
6.08      The Executive Director of SIP would have the overall responsibility
for coordinating the proposed project. The IPC unit in SIP, which is headed
by a subdirector, would carry out all budgeting, programming, coordination and
evaluting activities required for the project. It would also have principal
responsibility for project monitoring in collaboration with the executing
agencies.
6.09      The key to the success of the project is the use of the community
development centers (CDVs) which act as the conduit through which government
services would be channeled to the community. The services provided by each
CDV would be coordinated by a manager who would work in close contact with a
CDV managing committee. The committee, which would consist of representa-
tives from each community, would assist the manager in defining the local re-
quirements and priorities.
6.10      The requirements of each zone would be expressed in a project imple-
mentation plan. The plan would be prepared in consultation with the CDV
manager, the local coordinating cominittee and technical representatives from
each of the implementing agencies. The plan would address such features as
community requirements, resettlemnent, flooding, land erosion, and would give
particular emphasis to financial, spatial, organizational and time considera-
tions. Each plan would be submitted to SIP for review and ultimate approval
by the National Councíl. Implementation plans have already been prepared for
the first four cities of Cartago, Cucuta, Girardot and Pereira. Assurances
were obtained during loan negotiations that pl.ans would be prepared satisfac-
tory to and approved by tl-he Bank prior to implementation.  No disbursement
on account of expenditures in each area should be made until a plan for the
respective area has been approved by the Bank.
Budget and Flow of Funds
6.11      The project unit in SIP would review the annual project and work
programs prepared by the national mínistries and regional committees. Follow-
ing approval by the National Council, the budget would be transmitted through
DNP to the Ministry of Finance for incorporation into the national budget.
SIP would advise the ministries and regional committees of the approved
programs for the following fiscal year.
6.12      The regional committees, together with the CDV manager would submit
quarterly project investment budgets and work programs to SIP for review and
approval. Discriminated between monthly expenditures and targets, these
submissions would be reconciled and refined by the project unit. SIP and
Ministry of Finance approval would be received.
6.13      Each ministry and implementing agency would keep separate accounts
for the proposed project. Supplementing existing government auditing arrange-
ments, which the Bank considers satisfactory, SIP can require the Ministry
of Finance to carry out special audits for the urban development funds.



- 31 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.14      The different components of the project would be monitored to
determine their progress toward goals and implementation schedules laid
down previously. This would be done at the local and national levels,
and SIP has already established a standard reporting format.
6.15      The CDV manager would prepare the monthly progress reports for
each city, which would feature such information as percentage of beneficiaries
reached, kinds of services provided, implementation levels, and overall
project impact on the living conditions of the target groups. Based on these
reports, SIP would analyze the progress to date and advise the appropriate
ministries and implementing agencies. The reports would be designed to
highlight the actual and likely slippages and deviations, if any, in respect
to each component, and act as early warning signs to avert further problems.
Supervision
6.16      Particularly in its early stages, the project would require inten-
sive Bank supervisien. An estimated 75 person-weeks of Bank staff and con-
sultant time is needed for the first year of the project, 50 person-weeks for
the second, and 35 person-weeks for each of the third and fourth years.
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      The proposed project would fulfill several objectives.  It would
improve the living standards of about 550,000 people living in relative
poverty in 23 cities throughout the country. Secondly, it would assist
the government to redirect migration streams away from the nation's four
largest cities. Thirdly, it would assist in improving inter-sectoral coor-
dination by providing assistance in the field. Fourth, it would strengthen
program execution and financing by improving the operating and managerial
capacity of SIP.
7.02      The internal economic rate of return is estimated to be  10% for the
combined housing improvement and sites and services components, the cost of
which is US$21.8 million; and 10% for the water supply and sewerage component,
the cost of which is US$12.4 million. These components account for 55% of the
total project.
7.03      Internal economic rates of return were not computed for the other
components because of the predominance of non-quantifiable factors. However,
since the concentration of multiple services in a single neighborhood can
be expected to have a synergistic impact--the investment in one component
raising the rate of return in another--there is strong evidence to believe
that the incremental benefits of the services provided by these components are
high. Examples of some of the non-quantifiable benefits resulting from the
interaction between the components would include:



- 32 -
(a) health/nutrition and education: where it is likely that there
would be a reduction in per capita schooling costs due to
fewer dropouts, less grade repetition, and more efficient use
of existing facilities by a more alert, more responsive, and
more attentive student population;
(b) health/nutrition and family planning: where the likelihood
that improvements in ínfant and childhood mortality would
lead to greater acceptance of family planning efforts. The
relationship between assured children's survival and increased
family planning has been demonstrated in a number of studies
and is now generally well accepted;
(c) job training and small-scale credits: where investments are
aimed at developing managerial and operational skills for
enterprises supported under other project components.
7.04      In addition, the construction of community development centers as
a single complex of multip.Le services, the regularization of settlement,
and the planned-for public participation ín service delivery is intended to
create a sense of communit, identity and, taken as a whole, reduce the
social alienation associated with the phenomenon of Iuurban marginality".
Moreover, there is considerable evidence in marginal neighborhoods of a
market disequilibrium due to supply constraints. For example, ICT hiad
previously refused home improvement loans to persons not holding title to
their land; small enterprises in slum areas had no access to credit markets
for their working capital no matter how profitable they might have been.
Thus, there is reason to believe that the incremental benefits of the ser-
vices províded by this project would be high.
7.05      An important benefit is the regularization of land tenure.
Home ownership has been demonstrated as being of great significance to the
poor in the developíng world. These people have little job security or
cash reserves; they usually are ineligible for social security or other
forms of public income maintenance. The ownership of their dwelling is
thus the single most important element in family economic security. In
addition, it is likely that: clearing titles will increase the value of the
properties, resulting in an economic gain.
7.06      Another benefit of the project is in the developing of skills mar-
ketable in existing enterprises, including jobs outside the project zones.
Tailoring the training to the needs of specific local industries, and
gearing technical training to individual skills rather than to increasing
general competence, is likely to result in an improved quality and produc-
tivity of the future work force.



- 33 -
7.07      In this respect, a substantial number of jobs would also be created
by the project, including:
(a)  construction jobs, some of them low-skilled, resulting from
building of the CDVs and installation of water and sewerage.
INSFOPAL, for example, estimates that implementation of its
component for all 23 cities would create 5,266 man-years of
employment, at an average of US$1,134 per man-year;
(b) permanent jobs, of a variety of skill. Recent experience
has been that loans to individual firms create jobs at an
average cost of US$1,050/job, while loans to community enter-
prises create jobs at a cost of US$381/job.
7.08      A further benefit of the project is in improved health, such
as the reduction in communicable diseases transmitted in unsafe drinking
water. The emphasis on preventative medicine is likely to reduce the
demands on existing hospital facilities, which now treat diseases of
slum dwellers after they have reached an advanced stage.
7.09      The project also recognizes the importance of women in develop-
ment, both as project beneficiaries and more importantly as agents of develop-
ment in the new roles which they are expected to play in the health, family
welfare, and community agencies.
7.10      Finally, the development of an effective project monitoring
and evaluation system would permit the government to calibrate its
national urban development program for increased cost effectiveness
during expansion to nationwide coverage in succeeding years.
Risks
7.11      The proposed project carríes the risks inherent to any national
program involving a number of implementing agencies. Two other risk
elements are also present. First is the uniquely comprehensive and
innovative nature of the proposed project. As a result, the executing agency
is relatively inexperienced, although it is currently recruiting experienced
staff from other sectors, and is receiving management assistance from the
Dutch Government. Second, no standard formula yet exists for easy identifi-
cation of the cost effectiveness of the intervention mixes. Positive factors
making these rísks acceptable are the care and thoroughness of the project
design, particularly its monitoring and evaluation system; the flexibility of
the component in terms of capacity for adjustment, and the provision for
consultation with the Bank in key areas of critical project concern, as well
as the long-term development benefits associated with the project.



- 34 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)  All participating agencies would have full responsíbility
for the implementation of their respective components
(paras 4.18 and 6.02);
(b)  The Instituto Credito Territorial (ICT), the Institute of
Family Welfare, the National Apprenticeship Service and
Corporacion Financiera Popular would provide the necessary
counterpart funds under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 5.03);
(c)  The Ministry of Health would implement and charge tariffs
satisfactory to the Bank for the health component (paragraph
5.05);
(d)  Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) would obtain the
necessary counterparts funds from the Banco Popular at
substantially the same terms as the proposed Bank loan
with an interest rate not to exceed 18% per annum
(paragraph 5.07);
(e)  Instituto de Credito Territorial would (i) lend for land
tenure, neighborhood and home improvements components at
agreed terms; and (ii) that funds repaid by the ultimate
beneficiary would be used to capitalize a revolving fund
to replicate the components for the same target groups
in other slum areas (paragraph 5.11);
(f)  Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) would ensure
that:
(í)   tariffs would be set at such levels as to ensure the
recovering of 100% of the costs of the investment,
includíng the proportion contributed directly by
the government (paragraph 5.15);
(ii)  for the Empresas already covered by subsidiary agreements
with INSFOPAL under Loans 860-CO and 1072-CO, all con-
ditions regarding such agreements would be maintained
(paragraph 5.14);
(iii) for the Empresas not covered by subsidiary agreements
with INSFOPAL under Loans 860-CO and 1072-CO, conditions
regarding these Empresas would be established by INSFOPAL
and agreed upon by the Bank (paragraph 5.15);



- 35 -
(iv)  the funds repaid by the Empresas to INSFOPAL under
the terms of the new subsidiary agreements would be
used to capitalize a revolving fund to finance similar
projects in the future (paragraph 5.14); and
(v)   the Empresas would set aside a reserve equal to the
Government equity contribution to finance similar
projects in the future (paragraph 5.15).
(g) Each implementing agency would supply the necessary core staff
and that (paragraph 6.03);
(i)  the CDV managers and the community development promoters
would have adequate qualifications and experience;
(ii) there would be suitably qualified core staff to maintain
and operate the project who would have adequate
qualifications and experience.
(h) All participating agencies would be represented on the
National Council (paragraph 6.04); and
(i) Secretaria Integracion Popular (SIP) would carry out the
management and evaluation subproject acceptable to the
Bank and would review the progress of the assistance
program with the Bank (paragraph 6.07).
8.02      Assurances were obtained from the government that:
(a) It would provide the necessary counterpart funds at amounts
and in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank
(paragraphs 5.03,);
(b) In addition to the counterpart funds provided under para-
graph 5.03, it would make appropriate arrangements for
SIP and the implementing agencies to be promptly provided
with any additional funds required for the completion of
the project.
8.03      The following special conditions of effectiveness were specified:
(a) That the Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) enter into
loan agreements with the appropriate implementing agencies
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph
6.02).



- 36 -
8.04      The following special condition of disbursement were specified:
No disbursement on account of expenditures in each area should
be made until a project implementation plan for the respective
area has been approved by the Bank (paragraph 6.10).
8.05      Subject to agreement on the preceding points the project is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$24.8 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
SOCIAL SERVICES
1.        The Social Services Subproject consists of two aspects:  (a)
the construction and establishing of Neighborhood Development Centers (CDVs)
in the project areas; (b) the implementaton of delivery mechanisms for health
care, primary and adult education and family welfare, both within the CDV
facilities but also in an integrated manner throughout the neighborhoods
being served.
Neighborhood Development Centers
(CDV)
2.        The CDV conceptually involves two aspects.  First it is a group
of physical facilities geographically located in the area which accommodates
the community services such as health, training and education, family and
child welfare, population and nutrition serving the area. Second it is an
organizational entity to facilitate and promote:
(a)  communication between the service agencies and the community;
(b) community participation in the delivery of basic public
services and in the development of the community;
(c)  coordination and integration of the services delivery mechanism
to achieve efficiency and increased benefits; and
(d) to maintain and further develop the facilities in the area
through community initiative and participation and to encourage
the development of community enterprises and organizations.
3.        An operational zone with a population of approximately 20,000
to 30,000 residents within a definable geographical area would constitute
the optimum catchment for a CDV (approximately 1 km across with an area
of approximately 80 ha). The entire zone would have to meet the criteria
regarding beneficiaries set up for the program. In the majority of munici-
palities, zones with the optimum population have been identified. In a
number, however, the population and/or density is presently quite low and the
CDV facilities have been adapted to accommodate these. These CDVs can
however be later expanded to accommodate an increased catchment which can be
achieved through a program of planned growth of these zones.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The CDV will be managed by a CDV Committee (see Annex 5) which
would include representatives of the agencies operating services through
the CDV and community representatives. Each CDV would have a manager who
would be the local representative of SIP and also preside at the CDV commit-
tee meetings. The Employinent and Productivity Unit UPE (Annex 2) will be
an operational unit of the CDV.
5.        The services facilities in the zone will constitute the concrete
aspect of the CDV. Depending on the amount and characteristics of existing
facilities in a zone, the new facilities may be grouped in one site or
be located in different parts of the zone. In the majority of zones however
most of the new facilities will be grouped together into an integrated
complex which would be the physical manifestation of the CDV in the zone.
The designs will vary in each region, but simple structures and the use of
local low-cost construction will be dominant design features of the new
facilities.
6.        Incremental Development of a CDV.  Originally, the CDV was con-
ceived as a physical entity, completed at the beginning of the program,
providing a standard range of facilities which included not only state
provided social services, but other community facilities such as coop market,
cafeteria, community hall, community workshops, library, recreation faci-
lities, etc. This model did not distinguish between basic minimum services
based on national government programs and other optional activities which
required a high degree of community participation. It also allowed no room
for community priorities and initiative.
7.        The concept did not take into account the problem of limited
resources and efficient distribution of these, and was based on the premise
that by the mere provision of facilities the services would necessarily
follow, taking no account of the recurrent commitments entailed.
8.        This concept was subsequently changed and developed along the
following guidelines as an early prerequisite of Bank involvement.
--   delivery of services is more important than the physical
construction of new facilities and can precede it except
where the non-existence of facílities prevents the effective
delivery of the service;
--   services and facilities should be ranked and priority given
to basic mninimum services in the allocation of the national
resources;
the constraints of operating costs should condition the level
of facilities provided;
non-essential and optional services and facilities should
be provided only after a basic minimum level had been reached
in the príority services and facilities. If communities



ANNEX 1
Page 3
wanted to accelerate this process, mechanisms should be
available for them to do so through their own initiative
and participation, mobilizing most of the resources from the
community.
9.        A methodology for the incremental development of the CDV which
is applicable to both the physical and organization aspects, has been
devised. This methodology integrates the development of these two aspects
into a mutually supporting process.
10.       For conceptual purposes the process has been identified as having
three levels or stages. The first is characterized by a large involvement
of official agencies providing basic minimum services.  This stage of the
program is implemented as follows:
--   the service facilities in the zone are inventories and a
program for basic minimum services drawn up in consultation
with the CDV committee. These basic services are characterized
as belonging to the group which the government through its
agencies is committed to delivering at a minimum level, and
cover health (including nutrition and population), primary
education, ICBF family and child welfare, potable water and
sanitation, security of tenure and access to credit. Norms
have been prepared by the agencies in consultation with DNP,
for these services, taking into account the affordability
of providing then nationally;
=-   organizationally the existing community interest groups will
be identified, the program as a whole communicated to the
community, lines of dialogue established, community needs
and priorities identified and the CDV committee convened
with three non-elected community representatives on it.
11.       The second level involves a joint effort among the agencies and
the communities. Organizationally there should be an increase in community
initiative and increased involvement by local groups in the delivery of
services. The formation of an integrated pre-cooperative to manage the
CDV facilities, replacing the CDV Committee is possible at this stage.
By this point the community with the agencies should have clarified their
priorities as regards improved or expanded services provision and other
development goals. All activities to be undertaken at this level would
require as a prerequisite a high degree of community commitment and
participation in the execution and running and increased amount of cost
recovery from the community on both investment and recurrent expenditure.
12.       The third level of development would rely almost entirely on the
community taking the initiative and making use of assistance and resources
available to them through official and private agencies. At this stage it
would be expected that the integrated Coop and the UPE were reasonably
effective, a large degree of management and decision-making would have to



ANNEX 1
Page 4
be taken over by the community based on experience acquired in dealing
with official agencies at the previous two levels. Projects and activities
at this level would depend entirely on community priorities, norms and
commitments.  Funding would be on the basis of full cost recovery from the
community.  Self-financing project and commercially viable enterprises
would be realistic undertakings at this level, utilizing credit from
lending agencies.
13.       These levels are not seen as being chronological but merely
specify the organizational and other characteristics and prequisites for
undertaking activities and projects in a certain manner. Should the
community wish to develop and expand their CDV and other service facilities
beyond the basic minimum which the government can at this point afford
to supply, it would be clearly communicated to them that to do this
would require a certain level of community commitment and participation.
The alternative would be for communities to waít for further central
government inputs, a protracted process.
14.       Paragraph 16 gives a breakdown of the characteristics of the
three levels vis a vis the community/agencies relationship and out-
lines the type of activities and projects which could take place at each
level. It should be reiterated that these levels are neither separate
nor chronological and most activities would ín fact overlap and often
take place simultaneously, in a mutually reinforcíng and interdependent
manner.
15.       The Bank-supported project will seed the process by implemen-
ting the services and activities at the basic level. Through the various
credit mechanisms of the project, and existing programs in some of the
agencies, conmunity groups satisfying the organization criteria would be
able to undertake projects at: both second and third level during the duration
of the project.
16.       Norms for CDV Facilities.  As previously stated the CDV facilities
have been broken down into thLree categories, related to the mechanism for
constructing and managing the! various facilities and activities. Basic
activities at the first level would be taken at the initiative of government
agencies and funded by the national government. The basic CDV which will
be provided under this project would have the following facilities:



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Service                   Facilities               Area m         Coverage
Health (MAC)              Basic Health Center A    183        6,000-10,000 pop.
Health (MAC)              Basic Health Center B    219    12,000-20,000 pop.
Health (MAC)              Basic Health Center C    264    20,000-30,000 pop.
Training & Technical
Assistance and          UPE           Type A       240    10,000-20,000 pop.
Credit for Employment
and Production         UPE           Type B       450    20,000-30,000 pop.
Education (Primary and   Primary School
Adult)                   (5 classrooms)             451        400 places
Family and Child Welfare        CAIP     Type A      400        100 places
Family and Child Welfare        CAIP     Type B      750        150 places
Administration            Offices, Meeting Room    262
& Library
17.       Facilities which are envisaged for the second and third levels
include:
Second level:
Extension of the health center
Extension of the UPE
Extension of the administration building
A school cafeteria
Community library
Sports field
Local child care facilities
Third level:
Community hall
Coop market
Commercial and small industry accommodation
Parks
Community enterprises



ANNEX 1
Page 6
18.       Designs for basic CDVs in Cartagena, Girardot, Cartago, Cucuta,
Armenia and Villavicencio, based on the above norms have been prepared by
ICT and SIP. The CDV in Cartagena has been approved and construction has
started. The design for thes Cucuta CDV is shown in Chart No. 17720.
Education
19.       The education component in the project would be concerned mainly
with improving primary education in the project areas. Surveys have esta-
blished that most of the areas are very inadequately served by primary
schools, and where the actual classroons do exist, the quality of education
is substantially below normal as a result of the paucity of teaching
materials, lack of furniture and equipment and poor quality of the teaching
staff. The project faces all of these problems in an integrated manner,
repairing substandard classrooms, constructing new classrooms, sanitary
facilities and administrative accommodation, providing equipment and teaching
materials and providing training for existing and new teachers in the areas.
20.       The Bank has made three education loans to Colombia--the first
in July 1968, the second in March 1970 and the third in June 1973. All
three of these loans were for secondary education. The Bank's Rural Develop-
ment Project and the Caqueta Rural Settlement Projects, all include education
components, these components are for primary education and are very similar in
nature to this component.
21.       Each project area will have a CDV which would include an existing
or new primary school. This facility is located within the CDV complex
so that it can be used as a resource center for other programs in the
area, including adult literacy, training, and recreation and cultural
programs. A library will also be located in the CDV which would serve the
school and the community as a whole.
Demand Estimates
22.       Preliminary surveys of the areas estimate that on the average,
existing school facilities are only capable of meeting approximately 75%
of the demand (Table 1). In some older areas, which are closer to the
town center, there are adequate numbers of classrooms but serious deficiencies
in equipment and teachers, e.g. in Pereira, Cucuta and Cartagena. In other
areas existing facilities are capable of satisfying only 25% of demand.
Of the teachers working in the area 27% have not been to teachers' training
school, and 15% have not completed high school (Table 2).
23.       In preparing this component,  the Ministry of Education carried
out field surveys to map all existing facilities and resources and their
condition. Existing demand was calculated based on demographic data and
ICTVs field surveys. Where unsatisfied demand exists, all exísting
facilities will be put to optimum use through double shifts. In order to



ANNEX 1
Page 7
achieve this, classrooms will be enlarged or renovated, sanitary and
administration facilities constructed, schools furnished and equipped and
existing and new teachers trained. Outstanding demand is then satisfied
through the construction and equipping of new classrooms and schools and
training of new teachers. Detail mapping had been completed for the first
four cities at appraisal and these were used as the basis of appraisal.
Mapping is continuing and subprograms for every area wíll be subject to
Bank approval.
Details of Component
24.       Detail proposals for the first four cities--Pereira, Girardot,
Cucuta, and Cartago include the construction of 80 new classrooms, 22
administrative blocks, 52 sanitary facilities, repairing or replacing of
31 classrooms and providing equipment for 80 classes. Training will be
provided for 110 new teachers.  Preliminary estimates for the rest of
the cities project a demand for 200 new clasrooms, 39 administration blocks,
91 sanitary facilities, 81 sports fields, 55 classrooms to be repaired
or replaced, 200 equipped, and training for 488 new teachers.
25.       All designs and equipment specifications conform to the Institute
for School Building (ICCE) standards and lhe Ministry of Education's pedago-
gical 1orms. Standard classrooms of 60 m accommodating up to 40 pupils
(1.5 m net per pupil) are used. Five-classroom schools with administrative
and sanitary facilities operating on two shifts serve an average 400 pupils.
Teaching materials developed with assistance from the German Pedagogical
Mission will be provided to each school and teachers will be trained in
their use.
26.       The primary school to be located in the CDV, will be constructed
as part of the basic CDV, by ICT. However, all the other works under thís
component will be carried out by ICCE.
27.       The training of teachers will be the responsibility of the
Training and Educational Improvement Department in coordination with the
Education Secretariats of the Departments. Two courses will be offered
at the Regional Training Centers, a 60-hour and a 120-hour course. The
60-hour course will be for all teachers in the area, to familiarize
them with the new teaching equipment and to generally upgrade their skills.
The 120-hour course will be for those teachers who have not attended
training school or completed high school. Courses will be for both
existing and new teachers.
28.       The operational expenditure for maintaining the schools during
and after the completion of the project will be responsibility of the
national government through appropriations to the Education Secretaries of
the departments. The total recurrent expenditure is estimated to be
approximately Col$51 million per annum by year 4 which would include
recreational, adult training and cultural activities and to continue at
that level thereafter. Definitive appropriations for the Mínistry's



ANNEX 1
Page 8
operating budget for 1977 is Col$9,062 million of which approximately 17%
is for primary education. This component would account for 56% of the
Ministry's annual expenditure increasing the recurrent budget by approxi-
mately 6% by the end of the project in 1980. The Ministry resources have
been growing at a steady rate for the past ten years, in 1965 they repre-
sented 3.7% of GDP, in 1970 they had risen to 4.8% and by 1980 it is planned
to increase they to 5.7%. The Minístry and its agencies should experience
no difficulty in adequately maintaining these schools after the completion
of the project.
Instituto Colombiano de Construccions Escolares; Colombian Institute for
School Building (ICCE)
29.       ICCE was set up by Decree 218 of 1969 with the prime responsi-
bility of building and equipping schools. It is a public institution
attached to the Ministry of Education.
30.       At its main office in Bogota it is organized into four depart-
ments, construction, equipment, administration and finance. Of its staff
of 860, 60% are in Bogota, the remainder are located in 26 regional
offices. ICCE depends almost entirely on government funds to finance
its operations. ICCE's main problem is its inability to get the resources
appropriated to it from the Treasury.
31.       ICCE has the technical capacity to carry out responsibilities
under this project but assurances that ICCE would receive promptly from the
Treasury the counterpart funds approved for this component, must be obtained
at negotiations.
Other Aspects of the Componenit
32.       There will be three other related programs which are planned
for the CDV, but which have not been included in the project either because
enough detail information was not available for appraisal or they did not
satisfy the criteria of basic essential services. Nevertheless, assurances
have been given by the agencies concerned and SIP that resources are avail-
able for them and will be allocated to this program.
33.       Adult Education.  These will be mainly literacy courses, to be
carried out by Ministry's instructors with assistance from UNESCO. The
percentage of illiteracy is relatively high in the areas ranging from 12.2%
in Pereira to 34% Cucuta, being generally higher in those cities with a
high proportion of rural migrants. SENA will also collaborate with the
Ministry in these programs. This component was not included because
adequate information was not avaílable during appraisal.
34.       Cultural Programs.  COLCULTRA will run programs and activities
which include the following:
--   promote community participation in cultural development



ANNEX 1
Page 9
--   train cultural promoters from the community, who would
eventually perform such roles as librarian, arts teachers,
museum keepers, etc;
--   equipment for community centers;
--   distribute cultural documentation;
-- promote competitions which stimulate cultural creativity;
-- provide displays, exhibitions and reproductions for
display and sale by the community.
35.       COLDEPORTES.  The National Recreational Institute will promote
the following activities:
--   train physical education teachers and instructors
from the community
recreational training
== promote youth and sports clubs and encourage organized
sports competitions among them.
36.       All these activities will depend on the multiple facilities in
the CDV for their operation. The primary school will be one of the main
resources which will be utilized.
37.       It is planned that the CDV will eventually have a nutrition
cafeteria attached to it, which would serve both the school and the community
as a whole. These facilities will not be built as part of the basic CDV being
constructed under this program, but would be dependent on community action for
their realization under the second stage of CDV development.
38.       During the first stage of the CDV one of the meeting rooms in the
CDV will be equipped as a library. The nutritional program will be adminis-
tered by ICBF's CAIP and the MAC health post under the National Nutrition Plan
(PAN).



TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
Appraisal of an Urban Development Project
PRIMARY SCHOOL AGE POPULATION AND SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION NEEDS d/
Total
Total.    School Age  ClassrooT    Existing               Classrooms to.   New
Cities  -           Population  PopulationL/  Needed_/  Classrooms  Deficit  be Replaced- Classrooms
(19-73)
Pereira Zone I            24,746        4,239           53         84          -31       27              -4
Pereira Zone II           24,596        L4,Q            52         28           24                       214
Cucuta Zone I             39,984        7,053           88         66          22        22             44
Cucuta Zone II            24,174        4,268           53         66         -13                      -13
Cucuta Zone III           20,9140       3,694   .       46         50           -4                      -4
Cucuta Zone IV            28,166        4,968           62         88          -26                     -26
Girardot                  20,313        3,547           44         29          15        5              20
Cartago                   15,105        a,480           31         12           19       4              23
Total for 4 Cities    198,024        34,429          429        423          80       31             111
Remaining 19 Cities   351,001        60,127          752                    200       55             195
Overall Total          5149,024      94,556        1,171                    280       86             306
a/ Based on 7-11 year age group in 5 years of primary school, adjusted for increase since 1973.                    C X
b/ Based on two shifts of >40 students per class.
v/ Data only available for first four zones.
d/ As of Feb. 1977.



TABLE 2
COLOMBIA
Appraisal of an Urban Development Project
LEVELS OF EXISTING TEACHERS AND TEACHER TRAINTNG NEEDS d/
Academie Level
Rural                                                              60-Hour Course    120- Cour Course
Teacher   Teacher    High    Incomplete                 Teachers                                            b/
Cities                  College   College   School   High School   Total   Required  Deficit  Teachers'/Courses-  Teachers-  Courses
Pereira Zone I                       92        10        17          38           157       106        -          157        4           65          2
Cucuta  Zone I                      102        15         -          21           138       176        38         176        5           74           3
Girardot                             38         6          3         11            58        88        30          88        3          108           3
Cartago                              14         2          2          1            19        61        42          61        2           47           2
Total for 4 Zones               246        33         22         71            372       431       110         482       14          294         10
Total for rest of 23 Zones                                                            1,911        488                   63                      45
Total for 23 Cities                                                                   2,342        598                   77                       55
a/ All teachers in the areas.
b/ All existing teachers who have not completed teachers college and all new teachers.
e/ Each course can aecommodate 40 teachers.  An average of 30 was used for estimating purposes.
d/ As of Feb. 1977.



TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
Appraisal of arl trban Development Project
TOTAL COST OF SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION a/
(Col$ '000)
New Classrooms Outside  Replaced or Repaired  Administrative Blocks  Sanitary Units               Total
New Schools in CDVs            CDVs                   Classrooms
Cities                        No.          Cost      No.            Cest       No.          Cost       No.           Cost        No.      Cost
1         1,881         1             198       1              99       1              199       1          132
Pereira Zone I                                                                                               5                       17
Pereira Zone II                     1                      19                                                5                        5
Cucuta Zone I                      1                      17                        22                       5                       14
Cucuta Zone II                                                                                                                        2
Cucuta Zone III
Cucuta Zone IV
Girardot                            1                      10                        5                       5                        9
Cartago                             1                      14                        4                       2                        5
Total of 4 Cities               4                      60                        31                      22                       52
Total for rest of 19 Cities  19                       105                        55                      39                       91
Total for 23 Cities            23        43,255       165            32,670     86           8,514      61           12,139      143       18,876      115,454              > D
a»QX
(D,
al As of Dec. 1977.                                                                                                                                                          ,_



TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
Appraisal of an Urban Devetopment Project
TOTAZ  COST OF SCIIOOL EQUIMENT AND TEACIfE  rRAINING
(Col$ '000)
Equipment for         Equipment for        Teaching Materials   Equipment for         Equipment for           Teacher Trainiing
CDV Schools           Other Claserooms          by Clase          Admin. Block            Library       60-hr Course    120-hr Course
Cities                       No.     Cost          No.        Cost         No.       Cost       No.      Cost       No.     Cost      No.    Cost      No.      Cost        Total
1        244           1           40          1         13         1       42        1        427       1       16      1          32
Pereira Zone I                                                                   16                  10                  1                 4               2
Pereira Zone II                    1                    19                       19                   5                  1
Cucuta Zone I                      1                    17                       39                   9                  1                 5                3
Cucuta Zone II                                                                                                           1
Cucuta Zone III                                                                                                          1
Cucuta Zone IV                                                                                                           1
Girardot                           1                   10                        15                   6                  1                 3                3
Cartago                            1                   14                        18                    3                 1                 2                3
Total for 4 Cities              4                   60                       107                  33                  8                14              10
Total for rest of 19 Cities  19                    105                       159                  58                 19                63              45
Total far 23 Cities            23      5,612       165          6,600        366      4,758       91    3,822        2      11,540    77    1,232    55          1,760    35,324
a! As of Dec. 1977.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
Health
39.       The health component of this project aims to improve the health
and nutritional status of tlhe population in the zones, particularly the
most vulnerable groups such as young children and lactating mothers, through
the provision of community-based primary health care, nutrition and popu-
lation programs, in keeping with the National Health and Nutrition Plans
(1975).
Health and Nutrition Status
40.       Colombia's population is predominantly young, with those under
15 years of age accounting Eor approximately 50% of the population. The
majority of these are poor and subject to all the afflictions of poverty
and sociocultural alienation.  Malnutrition affects 67% of the population
under 7 years of age, 14% of this malnutrition is considered to be severe.
Deaths among children under 5 years of age account for 40% of mortality.
Gastroenteritis and respiratory bacterial infections in synergism with
malnutrition continue to be principal causes of death among this group
accounting for 55% of all deaths and 8% of all hospitalizations. Child
mortality from these causes among the poorest groups are estimated to be
twice as much as for the general population. It can be safely said that
this type of mortality which is a direct product of crowded, unsanitary
environmental conditions, ignorance of basic preventative health and nutrition,
and economic conditions, is preventable. These urban poor, like their rural
counterparts constitute the 39% of the population which the government has
estimated have practically no access to health care. Access to potable
water and sanitation, though generally high in Colombia, is seriously lacking
among these groups. The established health delivery systems, with a high
dependency on physicians, is not serving these groups and the extending
of this system to the entire population is impossible, the resources are
not there.
National Health Policy
41.       A critical review of the health sector by the Colombian govern-
ment led to the adoption of a new health policy in 1972. The main objec-
tives of this policy were:
--   insuring equitable access to health services for all, by
extending coverage to the 40% of the population previously
unprotected-the rural and urban poor;
giving high p,riority to maternal and child health services;
emphasizing environmental sanitation and preventive medicine.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
42.       To achieve these objectives it was proposed that:
--   health sector policy should be closely coordinated with
policy in other sectors;
--   an integrated health system with a strong emphasis on the
lower tiers of the service pyramid be developed on a
regional basis;
--   the health team approach be adopted with delegation of
functions to paraprofessional personnel;
--   active community involvement in the development and control
of the program should be promoted.
The National Health Plan
43.       In order to implement the National Health Policy, the Ministry of
Health developed a National Health Plan (1975). The plan proposed a unified
regionalized health care system, consisting of a pyramid of services of
increasing complexity and cost as follows:
(a) The base of the pyramid is located at the community level and
consists of services provided by trained community health workers
(promotoras). These promotoras are selected locally by their
communities.
(b) The second level of complexity, still at the periphery,
consists of health posts or centers staffed by two
auxiliary nurses (auxiliares). Each team of four to six
promotoras will relate to a health post. Such a unit is
referred to as a MAC-I. In urban areas because of the higher
density of population, four or more of these MAC-Is would be
combined and relate to a health center, with a physician and
dentist in attendance. The physician would supervise the teams
relating to each center.
(c) The next level of complexity is the local hospital. Services
such as internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics and pediatrics
would be practiced here by general physicians. Patient would
be referred from the health posts and centers in the locality.
This local hospital would relate administratively and functionally
to a regional hospital, located in a larger town. At the regional
hospitals specialized medical resources in surgery, pediatrics,
gynacology, orthopedics and pathology are available. The regional
hospitals would relate to the university hospitals for those
services and specialized services which these are better equipped
to handle.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
44.       It is anticipated that by handling the majority of problems,
estimated at about 95%, at the local level, reduction of costs and better
utilization of resources will be achieved, allowing for increased coverage.
Under the Plan only 4.5% of cases wíll be handled at the regional level
and 0.5% at the university hospitals.
45.       The Plan emphasizes provision of primary health services to
that segment of the population previously deprived of them, and to this
end the first stage of the Plan entails the organization of MAC units in
the poorest rural and urban areas.
46.       The first MACs to be designed were for rural areas.  This program
is already being executed as an integral part of the National Integrated
Rural Development Plan (DRI), which is being supported by the Bank, USAID
and CIDA. At the Bank's suggestion, it was decided to implement MACs in
the Urban Development Program, as a result a structure and methodology for
an Urban MAC was developed :in consultation with the Bank and with assistance
from a PAHO consultant. The Urban MAC will be executed as an integral part
of the National Nutrition (PAN), and the Urban Development (IPC) Projects
being proposed for Bank support. In developing the urban MAC, a number
of adaptations had to be made to the original MAC which had been designed
specifically for rural areas. Factors such as coverage, density of popula-
tion, proximity of other meclical facilities and services, higher expecta-
tions and the higher percentage of professional staff available and willing
to work in the urban areas liad to be taken into account. The development
of both MACs have nevertheless been consistent with the policies and objec-
tives of the Plan. All three Bank supported projects have the same organ-
ization for rural (DRI, PAN), and urban (PAN, IPC) MAC units. Uniform service
standards, buildíng specifications, organizational prototypes, training
programs and evaluation and monitoring design have been adopted and supported
by the three projects and the Colombian Government. In a number of cities
the urban project will set up the MACs which will be used as delivery mech-
anisms for the nutrition project.
47.       During 1976 the Ccolombian Government had planned to set up the
first 200 MACs throughout thLe country. Logistic problems and curtailment
of government spending reduced the number actually set up to 114. This
is still an impressive accomnplishment. A number of these first MACs
are being intensively monitored during 1977. The design for a more com-
prehensive contínuous monitoring and evaluation system for the program
as a whole is being prepared with assistance from UNICEF and should be
operational by 1978.
48.       If successful, the New Health Plan with its emphasis on preven-
tion, will reduce morbidity with resultant long-term economic benefits.
However, introducing 40% of the population into the health care network
will substantially increase recurrent costs in the health sector. Even-
tually, community participation will be necessary in order to help defray
some of the recurrent costs of the program.  Moreover, only through effec-
tive organization and incorporation of the recipients into the design and



ANNEX 1
Page 17
operation of the local health system, can the preventive and educational
goals of the program be achieved. The Ministry of Health has established
an Office of Community Participation to achieve these objectives. This
office, together with the Planning Division are charged with supervising
the organization of the MACs throughout the country.
The Urban MAC in the IPC Program
49.       The health component of this project, will consist of implementing
the National Health Plan as described previously in areas of concentrated
urban poverty of 23 intermediate size cities in Colombia. Health services in
these areas have previously been largely non-existent, and where they exist,
are well below the required capacity, inefficient and poorly utilized, con-
centrating on physician dependent curative health services.
50.       In adapting the rural MAC for this projeet, emphasis was
maintained on preventive health services and care, and delegation of
functions to auxiliary personnel. However, task assignments, staffing
patterns and physical resources of health facilities were reviewed in
the light of the following considerations:
(a) The demand and expectation of health services in urban areas
will differ significantly from those in rural areas.
(b)  Delegation of certain curative funetions which entail some
risk are less justified in the urban areas since a physician
will be readily available to the paraprofessional staff.
(c) Opposition from organized medicine is more likely in the
urban areas, where there is a high concentration and under-
employment of physicians, especially in the larger cities.
(d)  Ambulatory medicine currently being practiced in crowded
outpatients' departments of urban hospitals will be relocated
to the neighborhood health centers and be integrated into
the MAC system. Such a change will not entail new expenditure
but rather a relocation of resources in order to achieve a
more optimum utilization.
51.       The Urban MAC will be developed around a health center which
will be located in the CDVs being constructed in the zones. This center
will be the base for the community health team serving from 8,000 to 32,000
persons. A full-time physician will direct the team which will include the
services of a dentist. Besides general medicine and dentistry, services
may eventually include internal medicine, pediatrics, obstretics and
gynecology depending on the needs and demands for such services in the
area. Basic health service at the community level will be provided by
promotoras, locally elected, and trained in keeping with the National
Health Plan. The promotora will operate primarily through home visits,



ANNEX 1
Page 18
providing health, nutrition and population services to between 300-500
families, i.e. an average of 2,000 persons in contrast with 1,000 in rural
areas. She will be expected to motivate community members in her locality,
promote their cooperation, and funetion both as a health educator and pre-
ventive health worker. She will refer patients requiring treatment to the
health center. She will also conduct vaccination programs in homes and
schools.
52.       Each four promotoras will relate to two auxiliaries.  One
auxiliare will be stationed at the health center to handle referrals
from the promotoras, and assist the physician in the administering of
vaccines and medicines and other functions direct by the physician. The
other auxiliare will supervise the field work of the promotoras and
will serve as a consultant at the home level. Each team of four promotoras
and two auxiliaries will constitute an urban MAC, serving approximately
8,000 persons. Depending on the population of the area served by a CDV,
up to four MACs will be based out of a health center. The physician
at the health center will lead the health team. He/she will serve as
consultant and see those patients requiring attention and referred by the
promotoras or auxiliaires. He/she will delegate routine well-infant visits
and low risk prenatal care to the auxiliaries as well as the treatment of
simple medical problems. He/she will arrange referral to local or univer-
sity hospital when required.
53.       A dentist will be based at each center, providing preventive,
curative and rehabilitative services in coordination with the other members
of the health team. The training of dental assistants is currently under
consideration and the use of such paraprofessionals could result in a more
efficient dental service similar to the medical system proposed.
54.       A sanitation technician would be assigned to each center, ín charge
of the environmental sanitation in the area. His/her tasks will include water
quality control, promotion of sanitary disposal of excreta and solid waste and
vaccination and control of domestic animals. He/she will work in collabora-
tion with the promotoras and auxiliares in community education programs, par-
ticularly the program to encourage residents to make domestic connections to
the water and sewerage system which will be installed in the area under other
components of the project. He/she will also identify sanitation problems in
the area of each CDV and coordinate community action necessary to solve
them.
55.       The services of the promotoras and auxiliares will be free,
however, physician services at the health center will be charged according
to a sliding scale based on the economic ability of the beneficiary to pay.
It is planned that eventually a system of pre-payments which would cover
the cost of drugs will be introduced once the MAC system is operating
and accepted.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
The Health Center
56.       Medical resource in the area will be utilized wherever possible.
In the majority of areas these are inadequate or nonexistent and it is
expected that most CDVs is will have to make provision for a basic health
center. The National Hospital Fund (FNH) in consultation with DNP, SIP
and the Bank, have adopted specific norms for the health center, based on
a system of modular expansion, to accommodate growth and adaptation to local
needs where necessary.
57.      2The basic health center will be a building varying between
183-219 m consisting of physician's examining rooms, dental treatment
room, examining rooms for the auxiliares, a small pharmacy, an office
for the sanitation officer, a waiting area, office accommodation and
storage and toilet facilities for staff and the public.
58.       The project besides constructing health centers will furnish
and equip these centers, provide portable sets of instruments and
supplies for the promotoras and auxiliares and equip the dental unit.
59.       Transport will not be required in the urban MAC, as the dis-
tances are reasonable. The centers will be in telephone communication
with the local hospital and will be serviced by ambulances based there.
60.       It is estimated that the investment cost of setting up an
Urban MAC Unit will be approximately C$556,875 which works out at a per
capita cost of C$70. The annual operating cost would be in the region
of C$986,860 per MAC, which, assuming a coverage of 8,000 persons, works
out at a per capita annual operating cost of C$123. Per capita costs will
be less in the case of health centers serving larger populations since the
number of paraprofessional staff personnel may be increased up to a point,
without additional investment in plant facilities. These costs are
appreciably less than the costs of previously established medical services.
The Ministry of Health should have no problem in executing the number of
MACs proposed under this project as part of the National Health Plan.
Recruitment and Training of Personnel
61.       Training will be provided for all promotoras.  Candidates, who
would have to be between the age 18-40 years, must have a minimum of 4 years
of primary school, be in good health, be resident in the neighborhood where
they have been selected by the community to work and be willing to work
for at least 5 years. Candidates must satisfactorily pass the training
course for "Voluntary Health Promotoras."
62.       The project will also provide for the retraining of existing
auxiliares (allowing for a 50% dropout rate) and an orientation course for
the physicians who will be based at the health centers. This orientation
course has been designed by the Human Resources Division in the Ministry,
in collaboration with the Association of Colombian Medical Schools (ASCOFAME).



ANNEX 1
Page 20
The course emphasizes administration, team work, multidisciplinary approach
to medicine and toxicology and other aspects of the MAC system. The new
course is presently being tried in Fusagasuga.
Community Participation
63.       The promotion of active involvement of the community in (i)
developing (construction of facilities, recruitment of promotoras, etc.)
(ií) operating (local health committees for management and control); and
(iii) financing (prepayment schemes which would cover cost of basic drugs,
etc.) a community-level health system is of crucial importance in order to
insure wide social acceptance, continued emphasis on preventive health
measures and outreach activities, and fiscal feasibility.
64.       This aspect of the program, though given a high proprity in the
Plan, has not yet evolved a dletail methodology for its achievement. This
is an area that must continue to receive attention during execution of the
project and the Ministry of H0ealth should work closely with SIP in develop-
ing this participation.
Constraints and Risks
65.       The principal constraint is economic.  As in many other LDCs,
the Colombian public sector has difficulty meeting rising recurrent costs.
The new health system emphasizing prevention, if successful, will eventually
reduce morbidity and mortality, with all the attendant socioeconomic bene-
fits, however, it will be introducing a new sector of the population into the
formal health care network with resultant increases of recurrent costs.
66.       The continued allocation of funds to the service of the poor is
often politically difficult since this subsector of the population is
dísorganized, inarticulate and usually powerless. Only through community
organization and incorporation into the socioeconomic system will this
group be able to compete effectively for a fair share of public funds
with organized labor and the urban middle class. Community organization
is at present the weakest component of the Plan. Should this not
change, successive administrations may find it politically inexpedient to
maintain commitment to the project.
67.       The MAC system could eventually develop in two directions:
(a) oriented to deliver preventive services, health and nutrition
education, improve home and neighborhood environments, promote
family planning and provide simple curative medicine; or
(b) oriented to promote the demand for curative services and obstretical
care at health centers and hospitals by concentrating on referrals.
The former is likely to be effective in reducing morbidity and mortality
at reasonable costs, particularly if it is combined with inereased



ANNEX 1
Page 21
employment, potable water, latrines and nutrition supplementation. On the
other hand, the latter is likely to result in escalating demand for curative
services at the central level and sharply rising costs which will be impossi-
ble to meet. The establishing of local health committees to monitor and
manage the direction which the MACs take is imperative and will be promoted
under the aegis of the CDVs.
SOCIAL SERVICES SUBPROJECT
Health Selection Criteria for Basic Health Services
Selection                                                   Program
Critiera               Priority               Personal                 Services
1. Most vulnerable   a) Children less       1. Medical attention   1. Provision of
groups                than 5 years           (with delegation        of pure
of funetions under      water
b) Lactating             the National
mothers               Health Plan)
2. Most serious       a) Infectious         2. Provision of treat- 2. Disposal of
risks                 diseases              ment and                 sewage
mediciments
b) Parasitic
diseases           3. Nutrition educa-
tion and supple-
c) Malnutrition          mentary diet
3. Underdeveloped    a) Rural areas         4. Vaccinations and    3. Disposal of
Geographic                                  epidemological           garbage
Areas              b) Substandard           monitoring
urban areas



ANNEX 1
Page 22
COLOMBIA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE MAC - 1 AND HEALTH CENTER
Local Hospital
Telephone &
Ambulance
Communication
C
Health Center in CDV
Physician and Dental Services
Auxiliary       Auxiliary        Auxiliary       Auxiliary         - 
Nurse           Nure             Nure            Nurs e 
MAC-1               Auxary          MAC-1             MAC-1 1         MAC-1             U IL
§                           L ~~~~~~~~~Nurs       \/                 ,          _                 c,
7
300-500 families  |
2000 persons        Pr
|  \  /     |           4 MAC-ls relate to a
ii   \1 /'                                          |           Health Center
_ __ __     __ __   Z                              serving 4,800-8,000 families
I  |               32,000 persons.
300-500 families       CHP
300-500 famílies       CHP
300-500 families       CHP
¡            4 CHPs supervised by an
auxiliary nurse in the field
constitute a MAC-l serving
1,200-2,000 families
8,000 persons
World Bank-17677



ANNEX 1
Page 23
INVESTMENT COST OF AN URBAN MAC UNIT
Cost per MAC           %
---(Col$)-
Construction:        Health Center              275,220              49
Equipment:           Health Center              122,000              22
Equipment:           Promotoras                  16,680               3
Equipment:           Auxiliaries                 10,830               2
Equipment:           Dental Unit                100,314              18
Training:            Promotoras                   8,896               2
Training:            Auxiliaries                 22,935               4
556,875            100
Per capita investment cost (based on a coverage of 8,000)   Col$70
OPERATION COST OF AN URBAN MAC
Cost (Col$)         _
Salary of Physician                             188,160              19
Salaries of Auxiliares (2)                      117,600              12
Salaries of Promotoras (4)                       98,600             10
Salaries of Sanitary Technician (1)              58,000               6
Salary of Dentist                               188,160             19
Salary of Statistical Assistant                  58,000               6
Salary of Guard                                  88,450              9
Drugs and Supplies                              169,890             17
Maintenance and Overhead                         20,000               2
986,860            100
Per capita operating cost (based on a coverage of 8,000) Col$123 of which
81% represents salaries.



ANNEX 1
Page 24
ICBF Family and Child Welfare Programs
68.       The Family Welfare Subprogram will be administered by the Colombian
Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF) and will extend all ICBF's services
to a wider range of the community than previously, through the introduction
of innovative community based, low cost systems.
69.       ICBF.  ICBF, an autonomous state agency, was set up in 1968 with
the specific objective of "protecting children and mothers and improving
the stability and welfare of familes." ICBF has collaborated over the
years with other agencies in providing a wide range of services for families,
and other supporting activities which have íncluded:
--   promotion and support of child day care centers;
--   defense of, justice for, legal assistance to and rehabilitation
of minors;
family counseling and parental assistance;
improvement in the diet of lactating mothers and preschool
children;
school cafeterias and supplementing meals, and nutrition
education in schools;
preventative medical services to schools;
hospital services to infants particularly in the area of
nutrition recovery; and
-=  monitoring, evaluation and research into family welfare
and nutrition studies in Colombia.
70.       In 1974, under Law No. 27, ICBF began a program for establishing
Integrated Child and Family Welfare Centers (CAIP), which would extend ICBF
programs more directly into communities. By 1977, five centers had been
established. These centers provided:
--   a preschool day care unit;
a center for nutritional recuperation;
a family health clinic;
a legal assistance clinic for minors and families;
and serve as a base for family life and nutrition education
and counseling programs.



ANNEX 1
Page 25
71.       The experience from these CAIPs has demonstrated that they are
reasonably expensive to set up and run and presently satisfy only a small
percentage of the demand for their services. ICBF recognizes that delivery
systems at lower costs and wider coverage are necessary and to this end has
developed a program for transforming the CAIP into such a system through a
greater emphasis on supporting community-based services and organizations.
A pilot project has been started in Cartagena. ICBF intends utilizing
the IPC project and the CDV as the base for implementing this new approach
on a national scale.
72.       ICBF receives the majority of its resources from a 2% payroll
deduction from all public and private employers. The nutrition programs
are funded from tax levied on the sale of salt and by appropriations from
the Health and Education ministries.
73.       ICBF has budgeted in its program for the establishment and running
of all 24 CAIPs proposed in this project (CAIPs already exist in 3 zones).
Annual capital investment in this project at its highest would represent
approximately 1.4% of their annual budget. Annual operation cost of the
facilities and services at the end of the project would account for less
than 6% of their annual budget. In 1976 ICBF annual budget was C$913 mil-
lion. Because of the source of ICBF revenue, its budget has been increas-
ing in real terms annually, a trend which is expected to continue.
CAIPs in the IPC Program
74.       ICBF will construct and equip a basic central facility for their
CAIP program in each CDV. These CAIPs will aim to provide all services
previously provided by the first generation of CAIPs, however, instead of
the CAIPs serving as the prime delivery mechanism of all services, it will
instead serve as a resource center for a community outreach program. This
program will identify and promote community organization and delivery systems
and support these with training, funding, and supervision. It is antici-
pated that most of the basic day care services will be decentralized to small
home-based community-run units. Nutrition and other programs will be handled
by members of the community who will be trained, supported and supervised
from the CAIP. The community programs will refer serious problem cases to
the CAIP which will eventually handle only those services requiring a high
degree of specialized professional care, e.g. nutritional recuperation,
legal assistance, psychological maladjustment, etc.
75.       Under the project 24 new CAIPs will be constructed and equipped,
providing services to approximately 90,000 families.
The Home Based Day Care Units
76.       These units will provide a preschool day care service which is
traditional in many communities of Colombia. A mother keeps the children
of other working mothers and is paid for this service. Unfortunately
this arrangement is subject to abuse and can be detrimental to the welfare



ANNEX 1
Page 26
of the child and the family. Under this project ICBF will attempt to
improve this traditional service bridging it within its influence and
guidance. Mothers will be encouraged to register, this will entail meet-
ing certain basic standards of public health and community approval.
House mothers will be limited to caring for ten children, unless they
have assistance. House mothers will receive trainíng and certain-basic
education equipment, they will also be eligible for loans to improve their
homes so as to improve the quality of the service they offer, e.g. covering
and paving exterior patios, outdoor play equipment, extending and improving
living space, etc. House mothers who are registered and participate in the
program will be paid a wage, presently set up at the official minimum wage,
besides the traditional payments from the mothers who leave their children.
77.       Groups of ten home day care units will be assisted by a supervisor.
House mothers will also be t:rained to extend ICBF nutrition programs such as
monitoring nutritional status, delivery of nutrition supplements, etc., and
will become an important community link in the relationship between the CAIP
and families. Serious problem cases will be referred by and through them to
the CAIP central service facilities.
78.       In this phase of the project, each CAIP will support 10 day care
units. Thís will have the effect of reducing the investment cost of pro-
viding basic day care services to US$104 per place, a reduction of over
40% on the previous centralized facilities. The 23 CAIPs will support 310
such units under this project. Each CAIP has the capacity to eventually
support as much as 6 such groups of 10, i.e. 60 day care units. The pro-
portional reduction in cost will be appreciable when this stage is met.
However, achieving this stage will be dependent on the success of and de-
mand for this service, and not all the CAIPs can be expected to reach this
ultimate capacity.
79.       In those zones where local mothers are either not interested in
participating or suitable house mothers are not available, ICBF will
promote community managed facilities. These will be run and financed in
a similar fashion out of local accommodation, purchased or rented for
the purpose. Local women will be employed and trained by ICBF to run
the facility. A local committee will manage the facilities in a zone.
80.       Both models have already been started as a pilot project in
Cartagena. Preliminary reports from the monitoring and evaluation of
these models have been very good.



ANNEX 1
Page 27
INVESTMENT COST FOR A CAIP
Central Facility                                      Col$ thousands
Construction -- 400 m 2   Col$3,000/m2                   1,200
Equipment                                                   255
Training                                                    110
1,565
Home Day Care Units (10 No.)
Loans for renovation of houses @ Col$40,000 each           400
Equipment @ Col$12,000 each                                120
Training of house mothers @ Col$2,240 each                   22.4
542.4
per capita investment cost of Home Day Care Units C$5,424
OPERATIONAL COST FOR A CAIP
Central Facility                                     Col$ thousands
Salaries                                                   422
Supervision and coordination                               704
General overheads                                            69
1,195
Home Dafy Cate Units (10 No.)
Salaries                                                   240
General overheads                                          105
Nutrition supplements                                      475
820
per capita operating cost of Home Day Care Units
(excluding nutrition supplements) Col$3,450 per year



ANNEX 1
Page 28
COLOMBIA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF THE CIAP
CAIP
-Admrinistration
-Program ing
-Evaluation
-Research
Family Life                   Nutritioin               Pre-School Care    I         Legal Assistance
Education Center                                                                                          >
-Educatiori               -Specialized                -Advice and             u
-Social Promotion            -Publicatic,ns              care for 100                assistance to
_   -Center for            children ¡referred)          minors and
nutrition               -Supervision of               women          
recuperation              community day
care program                                      <
co
Community Based Home Day Care                               E
Center wouid be based and run by a                          E
mother in her own home, providing                          oE
basic day care facilities for 10                           0
children. Nutrition and family care
programs wouid utilize these homes
for extending their services to the
cornmunity. The house mothers
would be trained and equipped and a
field supervisor would provide
guidance and supervision for 10 home
centers. One CAIP can eventually
service up to six field supervisors
¡e. 60 home centers if the
demand exists.
Worid Bank-177678



COLOMBIA  XJ                                                                                                                               __
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CDV - CUCUTA                                                                       Family & Child Welfare
X~ ~                                 _            ___1,tE                      0 
==1  X  |1  /  -J  > 1 =    < l        0  [ 0    Adme is ovroo                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existng
LII lst Stage ::\\ÇiE00
E2nd Stage                                        rX                              E                                rr
E 4th  Stma);\<  )| ge  Ximho
i   _   EmIjolDymf 1              ArodUCtmsft En,tW
Crd Stag-e   ~                                                   - ---0-            Wcrld 8ank-17720
y~~~\\1 V



ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY SUBPROJECT
A. EmployLent and Productivity Unit (UPE)
1.        An Employment and Productivity Unit (UPE) would be established
within each CDV. The Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) would be re-
sponsible for management at the local level. The UPE managers would organize
and provide assistance to local industries and credit associations. During
the course of the project, as community participation increases, the UPE
manager would:
(a) help deve±lop the savings and loan cooperatives;
(b) train community members as UPE promoters; and
(c)  arrange funding of community workshops, warehouses
and salesrooms for market associations.
2.        Selection of UPE Managers.  The UPE managers would form the core
of the subproject. Good seLection, training and supervision is therefore
essential. Candidates would be selected by SIP, approved by CFP and would
receive monthly salaries of about Col$12,500, which is the highest salary
allowed for field staff. Qualifications would include:
(a)  professional training and knowledge of production,
marketing and project evaluation methods for small-
scale enterprises;;
(b) two years of related work in similar fields;
(c) demonstrated ability to deal with the target groups
and with institutions such as CFP, Banco Popular,
SENA, etc.; and
(d)  knowledge of the project area.
These standards are realistic in most project areas. Initial training and
refresher courses would be c,rganized by SIP to províde orientation. In
addition, CFP would provide training in project evaluation and technical
assistance through courses, apprenticeships and semi-annual evaluation and
refresher sessions in the regions.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        Funding would be provided entirely by the government and would
consist of: (i) payment of salaries; and (ii) provision of Col$50,000-
150,000 of seed capital for each savings and loan precooperative. Space
for workshops, storage or salesrooms would be provided in the CDV. Funding
for seed capital and facilities would be Col$10 million, and recurrent ex-
penditures would total Col$23.7 million.
4.        Evaluation.  The UPE managers would make monthly progress reports,
and with the national coordinator would develop short-, medium- and long-
term action plans. Each year the inputs and the results of the UPE programs
in each CDV would be evaluated. Every six months, regional reviews and train-
ing sessions involving UPE managers and SENA, CFP, Banco Popular and Supercoop
staff would be implemented by CFP, and would include: (i) description of in-
puts, such as number, type and participation in training sessions and courses;
number, size, source, and type of loans; and degree of compliance with action
plans and technical assistance agreements; (ií) description of outputs such as
inereased employment, production, incomes, management and technical skills as
a result of UPE programs; (iii) analysis of strengths and weaknesses; and (iv)
design of next action plans.
B. Productive Credits
Background
5.        The component would support an existing Bank financed project.
Although both use the Corporacion Ftnanciers Popular (CFP) as implementing
agency, there would be no project overlap. The existing project disburses
against loans to modern small to medium private industries, while the urban
project would finance small private firms with total assets below US$15,000,
as well as cooperatives located in selected secondary cities and towns.
While the appraisal of the second Small-Scale Industry Project (1512-CO)
outlines CFP's organization, staffing, systems and procedures, and finan-
cial position, the urban project focuses on the aspects directly bearing on
CFP's Special Programs. Accordingly, a detailed description of CFP is not
included.
6.        Characteristics of Past Borrowers.  Projections of average loan
size, sectoral and geographical distribution of lending, impact of credit
on employment and production are based on CFP's past experience. Semi-
annual reports to USAID have provided useful global information. In addi-
tion, the mission sampled 70 Individual Confidence Credits and 20 Community
Enterprise Credits in project cities to glean more detailed information on
characteristics of subprojects and impact of subloans (see Tables 6 and 7).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Detaíled Features
Introduction
7.        The component would build on two of CFP's programs that were started
in 1973: Individual Confidence Credits for Small-Scale Industries (ICC); and
Community Enterprise Credits (CEs). The component would offer about 1,800
small-scale credits at concessionary terms for investment and working capital
needs. Collateral would not be the major criteria for lending. A US$5 mil-
lion USAID loan in 1975 assisted CFP to expand the programs, develop stream-
lined appraisal and supervision procedures, and increase technical staff in
the regions. The demand for credit under this program has been strong, costs
per job created low, regional distribution good, and arrears rates that com-
pare favorably with those of CFP's overall portfolio (Table 5).
Special Program for Individual Confidence Credits (ICCs)
8.        Characteristics.  Borrowers under the ICC Program are few.  In
1976 total assets averaged US$7,680 and fixed assets US$4,420. Between
January and June 1976, 80% of all loans went to firms with total assets
of less than US$8,330; 93% went to firms with total assets of less than
US$16,666. Borrowing firms employed an average of five workers. Fewer
than 15% of the firms were newly established, the average entrepreneur
having 7.5 years of experience in his fíeld. Yet, only 26% of the clients
had previous history of bank borrowing, and those that had borrowed, aver-
aged US$2,000 in total past lborrowings. Loans averaged US$2,370 with 67%
for working capital. In 1976, 783 individual trust credit loans were made
at an average of US$2,335, up from US$1,460 per loan in 1975. Average size
of individual confidence credits varied widely among regions, e.g. Bogota
(US$2,830), Tunja (US$2,447), Cucuta (US$2,080), vs. Pasto (US$1,042) and
Cali (US$650).
9.        Distribution and Use.  From June 1975 to June 1976, 65% of all
loans and 59% of lending volumes under ICC program went for working capital
loans, 26% of loans and 30% of lending went to mixed working and fixed capi-
tal loans, while only 10% of loans and 11% of lending were fixed capital
loans. An average of 67% of each loan was used for working capital. Raw
materials represented over 65% of costs of goods sold, labor costs were
about 11%. The following figures show the distribution of lending:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Distribution of Lending by Subsector
July 1975-June 1976
Loans     Lending
Wood products                             21.9        20.7
Clothing                                  14.4        15.3
Leather and shoes                         16.7        16.2
Metal products                              7.5        8.1
Textiles                                   7.1         6.6
Food products                              5.9         6.6
Building materials                         5.1         6.6
% Total, major 7 subsectors          78.6        80.1
10.       Lending under this component is more decentralized than the over-
all lending. While the largest four cities accounted for 67.2% of the vol-
ume and 40% of the number of loans in 1976, only 36.1% of the special program
lending volume and 34% of the loans were made in Bogota, Cali, Medellin and
Barranquilla. In contrast, 74.9% of the lending volume and 72% of the loans
under the first Bank project were made in the four major cities.
11.       Impact.  In the sample of 20 loans analyzed incremental employment
increased by 71% over the initial 14 employees. Cost per new job averaged
US$381 (Col$13,719). Production and sales increased by 39%. From June 1975
to December 1976, an estimated 2,530 new employment positions were created
as a result of the ICC loans. The average credit per new job created was
US$1,050 (Col$37,800). The average borrower increased employment by two to
three workers. Production and sales increased by 40% as a result of the ICC
credits. Annual sales, which averaged US$18,550 before the credit, increased
to US$25,970 a year after the loan was made. Profit levels increased also
from 18% of annual sales to 19.6%, an increase from US$3,340 to US$5,900.
Special Program for Community Enterprises (CE)
12.       Characteristics.  Community enterprise credits were 61% larger,
averaging US$3,810 vs. US$2,366 for individual trust loans. The 14 CE loans
approved from June 1975 to June 1976 averaged US$4,140 compared to US$1,460
for the ICC credits. The pace of implementation of the CE credits increased
sharply after June 1976, with 14 loans averaging US$4,205 made between July
and September 1976, and six larger projects averaging US$9,750 made between
September and December. The recent increase reflects the longer period of
promotion and organization required for cooperatives.
13.       Distribution and Use.  From June 1975 to June 1976, 67% of the CE
credits were used for working capital, the other loans were used for a mix-
ture of working and investment capital. Over 65% of operating costs went to



ANNEX 2
Page 5
raw materials, with 15% to labor. Profit margins averaged 23% of sales.
Leaders of cooperative enterprises had less experience than entrepreneurs
of individual enterprises (4.8 vs. 7.2 years). About 26% had borrowed
previously for amounts averaging US$6,367. Average employment was 14, and
annual sales was US$41,330. The CE program had a better arrears record
when compared to CFP's overall portfolio; arrears in the ICC and CE pro-
grams averaged 9% of the total amount due, while CPP's overall portfolio
averaged 22% for the cities and towns covered by the project.
14.       General Lending Terms.  Terms for investment and permanent working
capital loans would have minimum maturities of 4 years with 1 year of grace.
Working Capital loans would be made with maximum maturities of 2 years, with
6 months grace. Those residing in the project areas for a minimum of one
year would be eligible for credit, however, enterprises located outside the
project area would also be eligible. Each area would become eligible once
the UPE manager was appointed. No city would receive more than 15% of the
total funds or more than 5% iannually during the first two years of execution.
At least 2% of the total funds would be lent in each of the 24 cities. Each
year, CFP, SIP, and the Bank would evaluate the need to expand the eligible
areas or reallocate funds among cities. Firms that could not provide col-
lateral would be considered eligible, subject to appraisal of each subproj-
ect. CFP would fund up to 80% of the project cost, and in exceptional cases
up to 100%. The funds would be used for construction, equipment and working
capital requirements. Projections indicate that about 75% of the funds would
be used for working capital and that approximately US$2.2 million would be
required for individual enterprises and US$1.8 million for cooperative enter-
prises. However, allocation among credit uses would be left to demand.
15.       Interest Rates.  CFP's 9% spread would cover administrative costs
and defaults. Administrative costs include project preparation, supervision,
collection, and accounting. This is based on the past experience of four
cities: Ibaque, Armenia, Cucuta, and Tunja which were used to estimate admin-
ístrative costs for project subloans. Table 4 provides administrative costs
for regional offices. The subloans would be pegged to the lowest Fondo Finan-
ciero Industrial rates which are currently 18%. These rates compare to other
financial intermediaries who charge the same rate or lower to the same type
of borrower. For example, Financiacoop lends to affiliated cooperatives at
8-11%, while the Caja Agraria offers funds at 14-18% for small industries and
cooperatives. Both of these sources, while offering attractive terms, have
limited funds and do not provide supporting supervisory and technical assis-
tance. In addition, Fondo Financiero Industrial (FFI) funds are available at
18% to small borrowers, but in most cases the requirements are too rigorous.
The Banco Popular offers concessionary financing (16-19%) to newly established
and other cooperatives unable to pay commercial rates.
16.       Appraisal, Supervision and Technical Assistance.  One person in
each office would be responsible for the subloans. In offices that cover
more than 25 subprojects annually, a full-time person would be required.
As a result of the USAID loan to CFP, most regional offices have at least



ANNEX 2
Page 6
one experienced appraisal and technical assistance officer.  Five coopera-
tive officers work either at headquarters or in the regions. Project prep-
aration and appraisal procedures would follow the existing format. However,
greater emphasis would be given to marketing, and each appraisal would in-
clude a diagnosis of the borrower's technical assistance and other support
needs. CFP would review all proposals presented by the UPE managers or
potential borrowers subjecting them to their normal appraisal. Supervision
visits would be conducted quarterly to determine the use of credit, diag-
nose major problems and convey MTA needs to UPE managers.
17.       Extended Network of CFP.  In the 14 cities covered by the project
where CFP has no office, the manager of the Banco Popular would act as agent
for CFP, and would provide information, character references, disbursement
and collection services, as well as provide assistance in project prepara-
tion. However, the major effort would be provided by the UPE managers and
SENA technical assistance staff.
18.       "New" Borrowers.  Although most of the entrepreneurs have 5-10
years' experience in their field, this is limited to factory employment or
work as an individual artisan. Most potential borrowers would have assets
below US$5,000 and operate with one or two seasonal assistants and, for the
most part, consist of those who previously were unable to obtain institu-
tional credit. A working capital or equipment credit would enable small
entrepreneurs to increase production and employment. The move from artisan
to entrepreneur could cause increased needs, e.g. new market channels, book-
keeping, worker management, and loan repayments. Concessionary interest
rates in these circumstances should be viewed as a combination of learning
costs, and as a first step of introducing the borrower into the credit sys-
tem. The small industries currently must borrow privately, at interest
rates up to 3-5% monthly. Accordingly, the cost of funds inhibits borrow-
ing for equipment and permanent working capital, which would be productive,
and could result in a net expansion in employment, productivity and sales.
Special Technical Assistance from CFP
19.       CFP would provide technical assistance (TA) activities, in addition
to those connected with loan supervision. CFP would be responsible for
training UPE managers, Banco Popular (BP) staff and SENA staff, in project
preparation and MTA methods. Training costs are estimated at Col$3,160,000
(US$87, 700).
20.       Training.  Training would consist of a two-week initial course in
project preparation and technical assistance, followed by regional seminars
held every six months to evaluate progress and receive complementary train-
ing. Initial sessions would consist of groupings of about 15, including UPE
managers, SENA management trainers, and Banco Popular and CFP staff from the
relevant regional offices. The annual schedule would be:



ANNEX 2
Page  7
Number of           Number of        Participants/         Number of
Participants           Initial           Refresher           Refresher
Year       Initial Courses          Course             Sessions           Sessions
1977              12                   1
1978              27                   2                   51                 5
1979              17                   1                   95                10
1980              15                   1                  125                13
5                                    27
21.       Costs for the two-week initial courses are estimated at Col$138,000
(including current costs for food, lodging, transport, and work materials);
three-day follow-up courses are estimated at Col$34,000. Funding available
for additional apprenticeships for UPE managers would be Col$450,000. Total
estimated costs for the training component are Col$2,050,000 (US$57,000).
22.       Evaluation and Reporting.  In addition to individual appraisal
and supervision reports, CFP would submit to the Bank semi-annual reports
evaluating the overall execution of the program. These reports would ínclude
the following: (a) Credit activity: (i) number and value of loan proposals
received, approved, disbursed; (ii) comparison of projected vs. actual loans
and lending, by city; (iii) number of supervision visits to project clients,
by city; and (iv) repayment rescord of project clients; (b) Impact of credit
on: (i) employment generated; cost per employment positíon created; (ii)
incremental production, sales and value added; and (iii) improvements in
product/market reach, management skills, other dimensions; and (c) Technical
assístance: (i) number and contents of initial training sessions, appren-
ticeships and refresher courses for UPE managers, SENA, Banco Popular, and
Supercoop staff; (ii) use of subsector studies; and (iii) number of refer-
rals by CFP to SENA, UPE managers.
23.       Role of the Banco Popular.  In towns covered by the projects which
do not have regional CFP offices, local offices of Banco Popular would serve
as CFP agents. CFP's coverage in the 14 towns not having CFP offices has
been poor. In 1976 only 2.1% of the total CFP lending was channeled into
these towns, while 8 of the 14 received no loans. While CFP's 14-branch
regional network theoretically, covers about 200 cities and towns, actual
distribution of lending is límiited largely by the location of branch offices,
with only 6% of the volume of CFP's lending in 1976 and 14% of the number of
loans made in cities or towns which did not have CFP offices.
24.       For this reason, Banco Popular, with offices in all but Riohacha
and Tunja of the project area cities and towns, would be used to extend CFP's
network. The manager of the regional branch would be responsible for dis-
tributing information, obtaining character references, as well as processing
disbursements and collections. In most cities the Banco Popular is adding new
staff and as it gains experience and training from CFP, Banco Popular could
play an increasing role in project preparation, preappraisal, and



ANNEX 2
Page 8
supervision. Banco Popular would participate in the operational network
for no service fee. The President of Banco Popular would send operational
directives to Banco Popular regional managers, outlining their responsibil-
ities in the program. Banco Popular's involvement in loan administration
would be in the following offices:
1977                   1978                   1979                   1980
Cartago                Sabanalarga            Villavicencio          San Andres
Tumaco                 Tulua
Quibdo
Sincelejo
Monteria
Barranca
25.       Banco Popular Financing Savings and Loan Precooperatives.  The
UPE coordinator would help organize a savings and loan precooperative to
cover the local population (about 25,000) within each CDV catchment zone.
Once 20 members had been registered, paid inscription fees and made commit-
ments of minimum monthly savings, the precooperative would be eligible for
Col$100,000 in "seed" capital assistance. With members' subscriptions and
"seed" capital contribution from SIP, the precooperative would borrow to
increase its pool of funds. Under Banco Popular (Cooperative Credit Scheme)
they would be eligible to borrow up to 5.5 times the amount of internal
capital. Small loans, normally not exceeding Col$10,800, would be made
for working capital, tools and equipment, and construction.
26.       BP cooperative loans are available for one, two and five years,
depending on the use. Priority is given to cooperatives which increase
employment and production. Concessionary interest rates are available for
new cooperatives. Interest rates vary with the ratio of external to in-
ternal financing (16-18%). The precooperative would onlend with a 2% spread.
Administrative costs would be low since appraisal would be limited to assur-
ance of productive use of subloan. Banco Popular would require guarantees
in the form of ability to collect on individual debts in amounts equivalent
to 120% of the loan.
27.       The productive S&L precooperative mechanisms incorporate lessons
learned in Colombia's successful experience with this type of cooperative.
Precooperative legal status would allow the UPE coordinator to take an
active role in managing the unit at the outset, until internal management
were strengthened. The precooperative would have open membership to allow
the maximum number of CDV residents to participate. A single savings mech-
anism would be fortified instead of following the trend to create small,
splintered, often short-lived cooperatives. The production focus of the
S&L precooperatives contrasts sharply with traditional savings cooperatives,
which are used mainly for consumption credit; the productive S&L combines



ANNEX 2
Page 9
the goal of increasing local employment with the S&L cooperative mechanism
which has been the most successful type of cooperative in Colombia. The
"seed" capital provided by SIP would meet the BPs definition of precoop-
eratives' internal investment contribution. Management of Banco Popular
has stated that it could finance these S&L precooperatives under its normal
cooperative program, without requiring external resources.
C. Training
SENA--Urban Mobile Trainingy Program
28.       Created in 1957 within the Ministry of Labor, SENA has trained
large numbers of employees of large industry. These training programs have
been mainly funded by 2% payroll tax levied on all large private industries.
SENA has 17 regional offices, over 7,000 employees, and an annual budget of
Col$1,277 million in 1976. In 1970, SENA established mobile urban and rural
programs to extend its regional coverage beyond the fixed centers, and to
focus on skill and employment development among low income rural and urban
dwellers. Initially, results of the program were poor; courses continued
to be geared to technical skills and subsectors appropriate for large rather
than small local industry. Also, training did not include accounting, mar-
keting, and cooperative organization. As a result, less than 20% of the
85,000 graduates used their technical skills.
29.       However, since 1972 SENA has made major alterations in its mobile
training program:
(a)  Most courses are on a specific project basis and include
SSI precooperatives, expansion of local factories, and
self-help housing groups;
(b) content of training has been expanded to include account-
ing, cooperative management and marketing as well as
technical skills. Sixty-two SENA instructors, nearly
20% of the Urban Mobile Project staff, offer training
in management, cooperative organization, or accounting
rather than in technical skills;
(c) technical training is now focused on specific upgrading
of technical skills geared to new products, markets, or
equipment rather than general vocational training;
(d) short-, medium- and long courses (one day to three months)
as well as individualized MTA, are offered, depending on
subproject needs which emerge from SENA's diagnosis;



ANNEX 2
Page 10
(e) better coordination has been achieved with CFP, Caja
Agraria and other financial institutions in some
regions, whích assure that complementary financial,
management, and technical assistance are available
to small and community enterprises.
30.       Systematic evaluation ís only now being introduced in SENA, but
regional experiences indicate that the new "project" approach has improved
the impact of SENA training. Pereira's regional management claims that 40%
of construction, carpentry, metalwork, and auto mechanic alumni either estab-
lished SSEs or found employment, while 30% of all seamstresses developed
independent employment. Armenia reports that, in 1976, 40% of the alumni
of auto mechanic, metalwork, and construction training obtained jobs as
employees in large industries. Electricity, clothing, and artisan train-
ing ranked high in independent employment generation.
31.       These Mobile Training Programs now represent a significant commit-
ment by SENA. In 1976, these programs accounted for 1,104 (28%) of SENA's
ínstructors, 352 of whom were in urban areas. Operating expenses for these
programs were Col$92.6 million in 1975, of which Col$24 million was for urban
programs. In 1976, over 62,000 people received training under SENA's Urban
Mobile Program, although this number reflects double counting of those taking
more than one course.
32.       Several improvements would be made in SENA's Mobile Training Pro-
grams under the project:  (a) coverage would be extended to more intermediate
towns; in 1976, only 13 cities and towns received training and TA under
SENA's Urban Mobile Program. The four major cities (not covered under
the project) accounted for 54% of the training slots and 56% of the operat-
ing budget under the Urban Mobile Program; (b) explicit linkages would be
made between CFP credit, SENA training and enterprises organized through
the UPE manager.
SENA in the CDVs
33.       Under the project, SENA would extend its "new style" Mobile Training
Programrs to existing and prospective SSIs through the Community Development
Centers (CDV). The UPE manager would help assure that training and MTA would
be geared to particular management and technical needs of each subproject and
that needed credit was also solicited from CFP; the target groups would be
local cooperative or individual SSIs, although a number of the beneficiaries
would be expected to seek employment outside the community.
34.       The project would fund the purchase of equipment and vehicles and
the initial operating expenses of setting up the Mobile Programs in the zones.
SENA would also carry out local studies of market channels and possibilities
for joint marketing and/or raw material purchase by SSIs from a number of
subsectors and develop new teaching materials in cooperative management,
agroindustries, and marketing.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
35.       SENA would carry ouit approximately 3,150 to 4,200 hours of train-
ing or MTA annually in each CDV.  These hours are comparable to 3-4 full-
time people although in reality, while some SENA staff would be allocated
full time to the project area, specialists would be allocated from SENA's
pool of trainers. To assure sufficient focus on marketing and management,
at least one of the four positions per CDV would be filled with a manage-
ment rather than a technical specialist. In addition, at least 240 hours
per year of organizational formation and training would be made available
at each CDV. These "hours" would be divided among short, medium, and long
training courses (one day to three months) in accounting, marketing, coopera-
tive management and upgrading of technical skills; the configuration of
sessions in each CDV would depend upon local needs and potential to be deter-
mined by SENA in consultation with the UPE manager and CFP regional staff.
Each month the UPE manager would meet with SENA's regional manager of the
Urban Mobile Training Program to review the types of courses needed over the
next quarter, revising schedules as necessary to respond to needs as they
arise.
36.       Regional Equipment Pools.  The variety of initial and complemen-
tary training courses offered at each CDV would require that equipment for
a greater number of subsectors be available in each project area. For exam-
ple, while the major training in Pereira could be leather work and auto
repair, local SSE groups might also require short, specific courses on build-
ing materials, clothing or metal products. Since only selected pieces of
equipment would be needed for these product-specific sessions, and since
fewer than 10 trade groups 1/ represent over 90% of the needed courses, it
is possíble to establish regional pools with the combined equipment func-
tioning in 3-6 cities, 2/ providing a pool from which selected pieces could
be borrowed for short courses. Regional programming mechanisms would enable
SENA-CDV programs within a region to borrow equipment needed for complemen-
tary product-specific courses. In addition, basic sets of subsector equip-
ment would move from one CDV to another each year. The formation of teams 3/
and the implementation schedules would be:
1/   The major industry-trade types are construction materials, carpentry,
leather work, clothing, metal mechanic, auto repair, electricity, food
processing (e.g. bakery), and artisan work. SENA staff specialization
is concentrated in garments, artisans, auto mechanics, and electricity
which together account for 64% of technical trainers; an additional 32%
of technical instructors are specialized in construction materials, car-
pentry, leather work, ancl soldering. Food processing is weak.
2/   Since there would be a lag in the implementation of CDVs in certain
cities, two adjoining regions would be combined during the first two
years to assure a sufficient pool of equipment.
3/   See Map 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 12
SENA              1977/78                    1979               1980
Group         Years 1 and 2                Year 3              Year 4
1             Pereira, Cartago             Tulua              Manizales, Armenia
2             Girardot                     Ibaque,            Neiva
Villavicencio
4             Turbo, Quibdo, Monteria
5A (Costa)    Cartagena, Sincelejo                             San Andres
5B (Costa)    Sabanalarga                  Valledupar          Santa Maria, Riohacha
6             Tumaco                       Pasto
37.       Preliminary equipment lists have been reviewed by the Bank, in most
cases the mix of tools and equipment is the adequate minimum to provide basic
trainíng to 25 students, as well as serve as a source of equipment for comple-
mentary courses. Detail lists and programs will be subject to Bank review.
38.       Organization.  At headquarters, a member of the Urban Mobile Pro-
grams Division would be responsible for the execution of SENA's portion of
the project. He/she would help coordinate the regional teams in the pro-
gramming of short, medium and long courses in organization, management and
technical methods, to develop local industries in the zones. In the regions,
SENA's teams would consist of regional directors and SENA staff active in
CDVs. Regional meetings would be held every three months to program courses
and equipment sharing. In addition, every six months regional training
and evaluation sessions, organized by CFP, would include UPE managers, SENA
business specialists, BP delegates and CFP staff members dealing with the
project. At the local level SENA would work closely with the UPE manager
who would help identify needed courses to complement CFP credit and assist
in drawing up training "contracts" between SENA and community groups and
local enterprises.
39.       Reporting and Evaluation.  Every six months SENA would submit a
report to SIP and the World Bank, describing inputs, e.g. the number and
types of courses offered in each CDV, the utilization rate of the equipment,
the number of students receiving different types of training, the total train-
ing hours, etc. In addition, SENA would develop follow-up systems to deter-
mine the immediate and subsequent impact of the training with and without
other project elements. The immediate impact of training would be recorded
for all participants and a sample would be followed to determine activities
at one, two and three years.
40.       Special Technical Assistance.  SENA would also undertake two spe-
cial projects: (a) market studies to determine best product/market poten-
tial, regional market channels, and SSI market association possibilities (see
para. 22) and (b) development of teaching materials to receive new emphasis
under the project, e.g. marketing, food processing courses, and cooperative
management.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
SENA's teams would consist of regional directors and SENA staff active in
CDVs. Regional meetings wc,uld be held every three months to program courses
and equipment sharing. In addition, every six months regional training and
evaluation sessions, organized by CFP, would include UPE managers, SENA busi-
ness specialists, BP delegates and CFP staff members dealing with the proj-
ect. At the local level SENA would work closely with the UPE manager who
would help identify needed courses to complement CFP credit and assisting
in drawing up training "contracts" between SENA and community groups and
local enterprises.
41.       Reporting and Evaluation.  Every six months SENA would submit a
report to SIP and the World Bank, describing inputs, e.g. the number and
types of courses offered in each CDV, the utilization rate of the equipment,
the number of students receiving different types of training, the total train-
ing hours, etc.  In addition, SENA would develop follow-up systems to deter-
mine the immediate and subsequent impact of the training with and without
other project elements. The immediate impact of training would be recorded
for all participants and a sample would be followed to determine activíties
at one, two and three years.
42.       Special Technical Assistance.  SENA would also undertake two spe-
cial projects: (a) market studies to determine best product/market poten-
tial, regional market channels, and SSI market assocíation possibilities
and (b) development of teaching materials to receive new emphasis under the
project, e.g. marketing, food processing courses, and cooperative management.



ANNEX 2
Page 14
COLOMBIA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RELATIONSHIP OF PROGRAMS, RESOURCES AND OUTPUTS
OF THE EMPLOYMENT & PRODUCTIVITY UNIT
National     POLICY         Community
Council
SIP
HUMAN & TECHNICAL                                                            FINANCIAL
RESOURCES                                                               RESOURCES
UPE
Commu nity
-Management/
SIP~           Manager  -rr gmetn
-Promotion         \Eaquintgy &
-Surveys              \vn
SENA- Urban Mobie                -Training
Program               -Tech. asst
-Promotion
Super Coop-Tech. Assistance        -Registration                    S&
and Supervision        of con                           pre copE
Productive                       P
r                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~CFP
Production     - - - -  - -  -  - - - -  -  - - Agrícultutal
nterriseW   Bank
WVorid Bank-17676



TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
LOCAL INDUSTRY COMPONENT COST TABLES
(Col$'000)
Year     Year      Year     Year           Total
1        2         3        4
Investment Costs
Credit through CFP                          20,880   43,848   66,816   77,256         208,800
Equity to S&L Cooperatives                   2,000    4,000    4,000       -           10,000
SENA--Training & Technical Assístance        5,958    9,756   10,666    3,111          29,491
CFP--Technical Assistance                    1,770       695      695      -            3,160
30,608   58,299   82,177   80,367         251,451
Recurrent Costs (incremental)
SENA--Training & Technical Assistance        7,250   25,509   28,228   29,740          83,477
Physical Contingencies                         1,981    4,202    5,834    4,928          16,945
TOTAL                                39,839   88,010  116,239  115,035         351,874
i-d
tDm
(DzI
u,,"s



ANNEX 2
TABLE 2        .                   Page 16
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENTS OF SUBLOANS
BY CORPORACION DE FINANCIERA POPULAR
City                   1978      1979       1980       1981       Total
Pereira                         24         51         63         82         220
Girardot                        14         18         27         38          97
Cucuta                          37         73        115        151         376
Cartago                         12         19         26         32          89
Villavicencio                   12         16         25         32          85
Armenia                          23        45         57         67         192
Sabanalarga                                 6         11         16          33
Quibdo                                       6        11         16          33
Monteria                          6        10         16         21          53
Barrancabermeja                   6        10         20         28          64
Tumaco                                      6         13         19          38
Valledupar                                   9        15         24          48
Ibague                                     12         19         29          60
Bucaramanga                     11         19         29         41         100
Turbo                                                 10         17          27
Tulua                                                 11         16          27
Pasto                                       7         14         26          47
San Andres                                            10         20          30
Manizales                                  18         23         44          85
Santa Marta                                           10         19          29
Neiva                                      10         15         27          52
Riohacha                                              10         19          29
Sincelejo                                             11         20          31
Total Number of Loans        145       335        561        804       1,845
Estimated Value
(Col$ '000)            20,880   43,848    66,816    77,256    208,800



ANNEX 2
Page 17
TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
REGIONAL APPROVALS BY LINE OF CREDIT: 1976
Banco     Fdo. Finance
City         Mundial          Ind.        AID    Proexpo    Otros   Total
Barranquilla         3.7         16.9           2.6       76.5      0.3    100%
Medellin            18.0         44.3           1.9       31.1      4.7    100%
Cali                14.5          4.4           2.4       75.2      3.5    100%
Bogota              22.0         31.2           7.8       34.7      4.3    100%
Bucaramanga         16.7         52.3          18.9       11.4      0.7    100%
Ibague              22.6         43.5          31.6        1.4      0.9    100%
Cartagena            6.7         30.0           3.6      57.1       2.6    100%
Armenia             22.5         32.6          42.6         -       2.3    100%
Manizales            8.8         23.5          21.3       39.2      7.2    100%
Cucuta              10.5         29.4          55.0        3.4      1.7    100%
Neiva               52.4         33.2          13.5         -       0.9    100%
Pasto               39.7         13.5          45.6         -       1.1    100%
Tunja                2.3         27.2          68.6        0.6      1.3    100%
Pereira             17.2         44.9          23.3       12.2      2.5    100%



TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS WITH AND WITHOUT HEADQUARTERS OVERHEAD
Regional
% Approved        Total       Total Value   Administra-        Admin.            %          Participation                    Administrative
Represented      No. of        Approved/       tive Costs      Costs       Participation         in             Total        Costs as 'h of
by Special       Approved       Region         by Region       % of            in Costs        Value            Costs            Approved
City              Programs         Subloans      (Col$'000)    (Col$'000)    Approvals          of Hq.         (Col$'000)      (Col$'000)          Lending
Medellin                  1.9            190        106,246.5         3,352.4         3.3             13           3,943.9           7,296.3             6.9
Cali                      2.4            144         98,369.2         3,083.2         3.2             12           3,640.5           6,723.7             6.8
Barranquilla              2.6             65         62,172.0         2,370.5         4.1             9            2,730.4           5,100.9             8.2
Cartagena                 3.6             62         84,140.8         1,551.6         1.9             11           3,337.2           4,888.8             5.8
Bogota                    7.8            507        251,115.7         2,596.9         3.3            32            9,708.1          12,305.0             4.9
Neiva                    13.5             83         19,372.0           294.1         4.3              2             606.8             900.9             4.7
Bucaramanga              18.9            204         47,785.4         2,053.7         4.8              6           1,820.3           3,874.0             8.1
Manizales                21.3             48         17,963.5           780.4         4.3              2             606.8           1,387.2             7.7
Pereira                  23.3            105         22,858.3         1,623.9         7.4              3             910.1           2,534.0            11.1
Ibague                   31.6            119         16,122.3         1,032.5         6.6              2             606.8           1,639.3            10.2
Armenia                  42.6            126         15,835.0           882.5         5.9              2             606.8           1,489.3             9.4
Pasto                    45.6            113          9,692.0           974.7        10.0              1             303.4           1,278.1            13.2
-Cucuta                  55.0             152         19,015.0           985.9         5.5             2              606.8           1,592.7             8.4
Tunja                    68.6             72         26,108.3         1,195.1         4.6              3             910.1           2,105.2             8.1



TABLE 5
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Comparative Arrears for Special Programs
and Overall Lending Portfolio
1976 (Col$ '000)
Special Individual Trust
and Community Enterprise Credits             Total Lending, CFP
1          2         2/1         3          4            413
Payments   Payments              Payments   Payments
City              Due      Overdue      (%)          Due     Overdue        (Z)
Baranquilla        1,230.0      -          -         44,587.5   8,407.8      18.9
Medellín           1,807.0   615.9        34         90,480.1  15,734.7      17.4
Cali               2,167.8   668.5        31         72,071.3  11,926.7      16.6
Pereira            3,629.0   403.7        11         18,937.0   4,585.0      24.2
Bogota             9,715.0 2,366.9        24        196,397.0  49,409.7      25.2
Bucaramanga        6,640.0   284.1         4         38,595.4   6,721.6      17.4
Ibague             3,175.0   400.0        13         13,624.5   8,853.1      65.0
Cartagena            510.0    76.5        15         41,872.2   7,833.7      18.7
Armenia            5,015.0   371.6         7         10,689.4   2,284.0      21.4
Manizales          2,753.3   221.9         8         14,658.4   2,384.2      16.3
Cucuta             8,195.0   883.8        11         17,790.0   3,465.6      19.5
Neiva              1,947.0   275.8        14         17,188.3   3,159.4      18.4
Pasto              4,448.0   608.2        14         11,581.2   1,521.0      13.1
Tunja              4,552.9      -          -         11,911.5   2,738.       23.0
TOTAL      55,785   7,176.9         13       600,379.5 129,024.7       21.5
OQX
Hx
1-4



TABLE 6
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
EEMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY
SAMPLE OF INDIVIDUAL TRUST CREDITS UNDER CFP
Characteristics of Loans and Firms: Impact of Credit
Food
Products  Clothing    Wood   Leather   Auto Repair    Others    Weighted
(15)     (9)        (15)      (7)         (6)            (16)      Average
Total Loan                      68,266   93,333   91,933   111,428        79,455         66,250      85,187
Loan for Working Capital       61,200   33,208   88,800    87,000         33,612         47,370      57,367
Loan for Fixed Capital           7,066   60,125    3,133    29,429        45,833         18,875      22,437
Characteristics of Firms
Total assets                298,553  399,133  279,413   324,814    276,900           191,656    276,560
Fixed assets                199,920  197,211  172,353   147,271    213,083           161,962    159,200
Employment                         5         6        4           7           5             3           5
Monthly sales                50,366  124,955   41,846    62,049         84#190         31,062      55,650
Percent raw materials             63        55       52         52           38            55      55.6
Percent labor                     11        16       15         12           23            12      10.7
Percent profit/mo.                13        18       10          20          23            20      13.0
Experience                       11          7        7          7           13             6       7.5
Farmer credits                    60%       22%      53%        43%       -                25%    25.3
Average farmer credits       43,000  105,000   35,600   132,666           -            72,500      74,930
Effect of Loan
Incremental employment             2      2.4       1.7        2.6         2.4            2.4         2.3
Incremental production           29.5%  46.6       21.5       35          31             53          40
Percent cost raw materials        61.5   49.1      49.3       46.2        36.5           51.3        50.3
Percent cost loan                 11.0   14.2      16.2       13.5        22.3           15.3        16.5
Percent profits                   19.5   17.9      13.3       24          22.7           28.3        19.6
Weighting as percent of total        8.8    1.2        2.1       18           6.01         36         100 %                O >



ANNEX 2
Page 21
TABLE 7
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY
SAMPLE OF 20 SPECIAL COMMUNITY ENTERPRISE LOANS UNDER CFP
Average Loan                                     Col$137,189
Average Working Capital Loan                    Col$ 92,842
Average Fixed Ass,et Loan                       Col$ 46,947
Average Characteristics of Firm
Total Assets                                  Col$359,979
Fixed Assets                                  Col$182,695
Employment                                              14
Monthly Sales ('000)                          Col$  124.1
% Raw Material Costs                                  52.8-
% Labor Costs                                         15.4
% Monthly Profits                                     22.7
Experience in Firms (years)                            4.8%
Previous Credits                                      26.0%
Average Previous Credit                       Col$229,220
Average Impact of Loan
Incremental Employment                                  10
Incremental Monthly Sales                            38.7%
% Raw Materials Costs                                43.4
% Labor Costs                                        12.0
% Monthly Profit:                                    32.2



ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLUMBIA
Urban Development Project
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS
1.        The Physical and Environmental Improvement Subproject consists of
three components: (a) Area Development Plans, (b) Credit for regularization
of tenure, housing and neighborhood improvements and new housing to residents
of the areas through Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT); and (e) provision
of public utilities, particularly water supply, to the areas by the local
utilities companies, utilizing funds made available through INSFOPAL.
2.        Project Implementation Plan (Plan).  These plans will be prepared
for each area base¿. on diagnostic studies and will confirm to agreed guide-
lines and norms. The plan will categorize and coordinate all the works needed
in the area and present these in physical, spatial and financial terms within
a time context. The plan will be incremental and the eventual pace of imple-
mentation would depend on such factors as affordability, community agreement
and participation and available financial resources.
3.        The plan will include the following:
urbanization plan for the area identifying existing and
proposed vehicular and pedestian access routes, public
open spaces, location of the CDV and other community
services, water supply and sewerage projects, and other
works in the area, e.g. storm drains, erosion or flood
control, land fill, etc.
--   details of all houses to be eradicated due to infra-
structure, public land use, or erosion, flood, etc.
--   identify new sites in the area or in proximity to
provide basic sites for new housing to accommodate
households subject to eradication and new demand;
--   estimated demand for housing improvement loans and
new housing loans;
--   estimated demand for neighborhood improvement loans
for street and footpath paving, storm drains, etc.
4.        All works in the area will be categorized as "essential," "neces-
sary", or "desirable." The plan as a whole and the categories will be
subject to confirmation by the CDV Committee and the community. Essential



ANNEX 3
Page 2
works will be given priority.  Necessary work will be carried out only after
all essential works are completed and would require community participation.
Desirable projects will depend for their implementation on the community
taking the initiative.
5.        The plan will also include an implementation schedule identifying
those activities requiring interagency coordination, e.g. empresa putting
in water and sewerage to a barrio, the health promotoras promoting the
community to make use of the services and ICT offering technical assistance
and credit to the householder to connect to the system and construct sanitary
facilities. The plan will also be used for programming and budgeting purposes
and will constitute part of the agreements between the agencies and the Office
of the Presidency.
6.        These plans will be reviewed by ICT, INSFOPAL and SIP before sub-
mission for approval to the National Council and the Bank. Approval of the
plan would not imply approval for the financing of projects in the plan,
all subprojects would be subject to the approval of the respective agencies
based on their criteria and budgetary priorities. The coordination and review
by the agencies should however reduce the likelihood that subprojects in the
plan would not be acceptable to the agencies.
Improvement of Housing and Neighborhoods--National Housing Agency (ICT)
7.        The Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT) was established in 1939
as a rural housing agency to provide loans for the improvement of the living
conditions of the agricultural labor force. In 1942, the Institute's focus
was altered to include urban housing and, by 1956, concentrated solely on
urban development and moderate-income housing. ICT has a lot of experience
and the capacity to execute conventional housing programs, as a result much
of its programs so far have not catered for the lowest-income groups. With-
in the past five years however, ICT has attempted to address the housing
problems of these groups in the urban areas through new construction of
"social interest" housing and more recently through the upgrading of sub-
standard areas in primary arLd secondary cities. The ICT is a semi-autonomous
decentralized agency responsible to the Ministry of Economic Development. ICT
promoters and constructs housing, urbanizes land and offers credit, social
and technical services to its program beneficiaries.
Organization
8.        ICT is governed by a six-man board, all of whom are appointed by
the President of the Republic, and is presided over by the Minister of
Economic Development. Besidles its central office which is located in the
capital, Bogota, there are 24 regional offices located in departments and
territories throughout Colombia to facilitate administrative procedures,
loan recovery operations, and project implementation. Functional activities
are organized into four sections--Technical, Construction, Finance and
Administrative, which report to the General Manager through the Offices of



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Organization Control and Planning. The organization structure is shown in
Chart 1.
9.        The central office has traditionally been responsible for policy,
for project design and for construction procedures. In the current de-
centralized scheme responsibilities of the central office are now limited
to formulating policy, planning regional allocations, developing standards
and procedures, monitoring and evaluation of programs. The regional offices
are encouraged to develop more autonomous programming and project development
that are in keeping with and realize national goals and priorities established
by the central office.
10.       As a result of decentralization efforts each department now has an
ICT office and a local advisory board, comprised of representatives of various
public and private community interest groups. Results of the decentralized
efforts are mixed due in part to some loss in communication between the
regional and the central offices, but mainly because of the loss of leverage
the central office cannot exert over its dependencies to pursue national ICT
goals and priorities.
11.       The ICT maintains a staff of 3,156 employees, of which 2,459 are
located in the regional offices and 697 in the central office. In the
regional offices, 1,613 persons form the administrative staff and 846 form the
technical staff. In the central office, the administrative staff numbers
516 and the technical staff 181.
Financial Aspects
12.       ICT is but one of a group of public agencies operating in the
housing sector. The Central Mortgage Bank (BCH) is the central financing
mechanism for urban development and housing. BCH mobilizes private sector
savings through individual accounts and investments in UPAC currency. 1/
The Fondo Nacional de Ahorro (FNA) administers the compulsory savings of
public sector employees. These two institutions are the main sources
of finance for ICT. Besides its own resources ICT also gets its resources
from donations from the State, forced investments from banks, insurance
companies and savings and loan organizations, and the sale of ICT bonds.
In 1976 ICT was able to mobilize Col$ 2,329.2 million (US$64.7 million)
from a variety of sources at an average cost of 14%. The breakdown of these
resources was as follows:
1/   UPAC is an indexed investment, which is used primarily for housing.  The
units of investment bodies earning interest are adjusted at fixed
periods by the index of inflation thus maintaining their real value.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Col$    Interest   % of
(millions)    Rate      Total
Contribution from the State                          471.4          0        20
ICT resources                                        200.3        8.5         9
Forced investment from insurarLce companies
and finance organizations                          230.0       11.0       10
Up to one point on bank exchange                      90.0        8.0         4
Savings Bank of the Banco Popular                     50.0       12.0        2
Loans from Central Mortgage Bank (BCH)               600.0       21.0       26
Loans from the National Savings Fund (Fondo)         500.0       20.0       21
UPAC                                                 150.0       26.9         6
Other Loans                                           30.0       18.0         1.5
Payment from bonds                                     7.5         0           .5
Total                                   2,329.2       14.0       100
Average
13.       Over the years ICT has been able to increase its operations appre-
ciably through its ability to mobilize adequate resources. The resources
available to ICT have increased at a rate of 5.2% in real terms over the
period 1961-1975, i.e. from Col$189 million to Col$2,792 million. This
growth is even more impressive when it is seen against the background of a
reduced dependency on State contributions, which fell from a high of Col$604
million in 1974 to Col$409 million in 1976. In 1977, the State contribution
to ICT's resources will be further reduced from its 1976 level, which was
20% of its resources, to 13% of a budgeted Col$3,763 million. This reduction
will be achieved by increasing its borrowing from BCH, FNA, and UPAC. This
increased borrowing from the central finance agencies will continue to in-
crease the average cost of ICT's resources, which rose from 9.6% in 1975 to
14% in 1976.
14.       The majority of ICT's resources are invested in housing activities.
In 1975 64.6% went to housing; 22.7% to debt service, 8.4% for operating
costs, 3.3% for transfers and 1.0% to other investments.
15.       The regional distribution of ICT's construction projects has been
weighted toward the four largest cities. In 1976, Bogota, Medellin, Cali
and Barranquilla received a total of 870 million pesos worth of construction,
or 57% of ICT total expenditure. The remaining 43% of expenditure was
distributed among 24 other municipal areas. The program for 1977 and there-
after proposes a slight shift in this allocation, giving a somewhat greater
priority to the smaller urban areas.
16.       ICT Programs.  ICT s programs are concentrated in two areas, the
construction of new housing stock for a variety of income groups, which is
its main activity, and the upgrading of existing, substandard urban areas.
This second area involves new and relatively untried activities to which
the government and ICT's central office are committed but which have as



ANNEX 3
Page 5
yet not been wholeheartedly accepted by the regional managers. Each area
has a variety of subprograms. Chart 2 summarizes the objectives, nature
and financial terms of these programs.
17.       The construction of new housing stock is achieved through the
following subprograms:
(a) serviced lots costing no more than 400 times the mini-
mum daíly wage (MDW) (Col$24,800) designed for familíes
with incomes between Col$500-1,000 per month which is
less than the legal minimum wage. 1/ Families may
either build a temporary shelter or get a loan to con-
struct a permanent minimum unit;
(b) a serviced lot with a sanitary core costing up to 650
times MDW (Col$40,300), geared to families earning up
to Col$1,404 per month, construction loans for expand-
ing the unit are available;
(c)  a minimum unit, consisting of a serviced lot, sanitary
core and an enclosed shelter costing up to 1290 times
M4DW (Col$79,980). This is available to families with
incomes up to Col$2,787 per month, construction loans
for expanding the unit are available;
(d)  basic units which are extensions to the minimum unít,
but have a larger enclosed constructed area and cost
up to 1935 MDW (Col$119,970). These units are avail-
able to families earning up to Col$5,000; and
(e) intermediate and maximum units are essentially conven-
tional housing, in apartment blocks or low-rise devel-
opments. The sale price is greater than Col$120,000
and the financial terms are based on UPAC (approximately
26% per annum interest rate), with mínimum deposits of
20% of the value of the house.
18.       Loans are available from ICT for the purchase of all of the various
units, the terms of the loans vary with the type of unit and the income of
the purchaser. All loans are amortized on a monthly basis over a 15 year
period and are based on a gradual incremental amortization in which repayments
1/   The minimum wage in Colombia at October 1977 was Col$62/day, Col$1,500/
month, the Bank's relative poverty ceiling for Colombia in 1975 was a per
capita income of US$14/month, a family income of approximately Col$3,000/
month.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
increases at 5% per annum over the lífe of the loan. Interest rates are
set annually and are based on the average cost of ICT's borrowing. Interest
rates for 1977/78 range as follows:
-    13.8% for the lowest income groups purchasing serviced
lots and lots with sanitary core;
-    14% for low income families purchasing minimum units;
-    16% for the purchase of basic units;
-    UPAC adjusted rates (approximately 26% in 1976) for
intermediate and maximum units.
These rates include mortgage insurance for all loans. Downpayments for the
serviced lots, cores and minimum units vary from 0% to a maximum of 10%. On
basic units the maximum downpayment is 15% and on intermediate and maximum
units a mínimum deposit of 20% is required.
19.       For the low-income groups, up to 25% of their loan can be amortized
Qn an annual basis, by transfers from their severance pay account in the
Social Security Fund, which is a compulsory employer contribution. This
mechanism allows a further reduction in the monthly outgoings on housing by
the lowest income groups and increases the investment in housing. Based on
these financial terms and mechanisms, 1l 25% of family income can service
a housing loan equal to 24 times the monthly income. If the family income
only services 80% of the loan, the loan can be increased to 30 times the
monthly income.
20.       The following illustrates the costs of two typical low-income
projects being carried out by ICT, one outside Bogota and the other, a
pilot project in Pereira. Costs are per plot.
1/   Annuity factor for a 15-year loan at 14% with a 5% annual incremental
amortization is .0104548.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Costs of Serviced Lots Projects (1976 prices)
Los Molinos        Pereira
Bogota      Pilot Project
Density--plots/hectare                                  100               110
Col$             Col$
Raw Land                                              6,050            4,608
Infrastructure (water, electricity, sewerage
& access)                                          11,400           11,752
Sanitary core (W.C. & shower at rear of
plot) 4 m-- materials    5,000
-- labor         1,800
Sanitary core (W.C. shower,
2
kitchen & party walls) 13.7 m    -- materials                       12,292
-- labor                          4,507
Multiple-use space                   -- materials   19,000            10,956
(30 m  including core)             -- labor         6,750            4,017
50,000           48,132
ICT administration & technical
assistance                                          5,000            4,813
Total                                55,000           52,945



COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
ICT HOUSING PROGRAMS
AFFORDABILITY OF VARIOUS UNITS
(in Col$)
ICT           ¡a       /b   Monthl le   Monthly   Monthlyi      Monthly
Costs   Deposit-   Loan-   Repayment A  Income   Repayment B   Income
Los Molinos--Bogota
Serviced lot                19,195   1,919       17,276          144     576         181            724
Sanitary core by occupant   24,695   3,719       22,776          190     762         238            952
Sanitary core by ICT        26,575   2,658       23,817          199     796         249            996
Minimum shelter by occupant 47,575   9,408       44,917          376   1,503         470          1,880
Minimum shelter by ICT       55,000   5,500      49,500          414   1,656         518          2,072
Pereira--Pilot Project
Serviced lot                17,996   1,800       16,196          135     540         169            676
Sanitary core by occupant   31,517   6,307       29,717          249     996         311          1,244
Sanitary core by ICT        36,447   3,648       32,827          275   1,100         343          1,372
Minimum shelter by occupant 48,527   7,665       44,879          375   1,500         469          1,876
Minimum shelter by ICT       52,945   5,295      47,650          399   1,596         498          1,992
/a Includes a maximum cash deposit of 10% and/or sweat equity through self-help construction.
lb Loans are at an interest rate of 14% over 15 years, amortized on a monthly basis, with a 5% annual
incremental increase in repayments.  (Annuity factor = *0104548).
lc Based on amortizing 80% of the loan on a monthly basis and 20% on an annual basis from Social
Security contributions; repayments not to exceed 25% of income (loan to monthly income ratio = 30
approx.) See para 19.
/d Based on amortizing 100% of the loan on a monthly basis, repayments not to exceed 25% of income
(loan to monthly income ratio = 24 approx.)  See para 19.
(D



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Income Distributíon in Colombia
(1974 figures adjusted to 1976)
% of Population
Family Income                  Intermediate       Large
Annual              Monthly              Cities /a       Cities lb
0 -  12,000           0 -  1,000            3.7              3.7
12,001 -  18,000       1,001 -  1,500            6.8               4.1
18,001 -  24,000       1,501 -  2,000            6.8               5.8
24,001 -  36,000       2,001 -  3,000           15.5              12.3
36,001 -  60,000       3,001 -  5,000           21.5              21.1
60,001 -  84,000       5,001 -  7,000           15.5              12.6
84,001 - 120,000       7,001 - 10,000            9.2              12.7
120,001 - 170,000      10,001 - 14,166            7.3               9.2
170,001 - 365,000      14,167 - 30,466           10.2              12.5
365,001 -  over         30,467 -  over             3.5               6.0
/a   Cities between 30,000 and 500,000 inhabitants.
_b   Cities of over 500,000 inhabitants (Bogota, Cali, Medellin, Barranquílla).
21.       ICT investment in 1975 in each of these subprograms was a follows:
No. of         No. of
Completed       Units in
Subprogram                (millions)            Units         Progress
Serviced lots                    16.4                3,196             430
Minimum Solution                420.3                7,590           2,930
Basic Solution                  254.9                5,398           3,038
Intermediate Solution           241.1               5,051            2,660
Maximum Solution                297.8                2,229             310
The sites and services subprograms represent 1.3% of 1975 expenditure. The
Mínimum Solution component represents 34.2% and demonstrates ICT's position
of providing at least some constructed area to each family that can afford
it.
Note:  The Bank's urban poverty level for Colombia has been set at US$150
per capita per annum, giving an annual family income of approximately
Col$35,000. From the above it would appear that a large amount of
ICT's programs are presently directed at and affordable by the urban
poor.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
22.       In contrast to ICT's regular construction programs, which represent
new projects from the planning and design viewpoint, ICT has three relatively
new programs which are aimed at upgrading housing conditions in already
settled areas:
(a)  Provision of public services:  through a system of credits
to the municipalities and the empresas, ICT assists in
delivering water, sewerage and electricity services, street
paving, drainage, etc.
(b)  Improvement of houses:  through credits and technical
assistance, ICT assists households in improving their
houses by installing basic sanitary facilities
(again with the help of the empresas and the mun.ici-
palities) and improving or expanding their houses.
(c) Regularization of tenure: through loans to municipalities,
community groups and individual families to acquire land
which has been settled illegally and to survey, process,
and eventually transfer titles to the residents.
23.       This new effort began with a study "Investigation de Zonas Sub-
normals" (Substandard Areas Study) in 1972. An inventory of 69 cities was
carried out to ídentify specific substandard areas and to quantify the con-
ditions found in these areas. The study aimed to identify the causes for the
substandard conditions and to determine priorities to guide municipal and ICT
programs. This study has been merged into the present IPC program. These
programs reflect new ICT priorities, and include the improvement of sub-
standard areas, tenure, and home improvement loans.
24.       In 1975, investment: in these two subprograms was relatively small
(Col$81 million) accounting for approximately 5% of ICT's total investment in
construction programs. Of this 4% went into neighborhood improvement and 1%
into home improvement. In 1976 there was a 14% increase in these subprograms,
investment in them (Col$91 millíon) accounting for approximately 6% of total
investment in construction. However, there was a significant difference in
the allocation of resources to the two subprograms, the home improvement
program was increased by 185%, accounting for nearly 2% of the total invest-
ment, while the neighborhood improvement program was slightly reduced account-
ing for 4% of total investment. Approximately 3,300 loans were awarded in
these two years at an average of Col$15,000 per loan. It is ICT's policy to
increase the scale of these upgrading subprograms, particularly the home
improvement loans.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
25.       The following table shows the number of units produced by ICT over
the period 1942-75.
No. of Home        No. of Sites
Year      No. of Units        Improvements       and Services        Total
1942-1965        100,000              -                     -            100,000
1966-1969         50,852              -                     -             50,852
1970        11,404               -                    -              11,404
1971        13,997               -                    -              13,997
1972        20,190              1,200                379            21,769
1973        23,887              1,129                190            25,206
1974        18,926                420              1,345            20,691
1975        20,268                696              3,196            24,160
Total     259,524              3,445              5,110            268,079
26.       The 1976 program aimed to reduce the amount of maximum units from
4% of total investment to 1%. An increase in the number of units for families
earning less than Col$3,500/month was planned from 87.4% in 1975 to 95%
ín 1976, necessitating an increase in the total number of units produced to
42,000.  Approximately 50,000 families were to benefit from ICT upgrading
and new construction programs.
Other Programs
27.       In addition to its construction programs ICT has the following
community development programs:
(a) Technical assistance: the purpose is to collaborate with
the municipalities in improving housing services in marginal
areas. Examples of such work are the ICT-sponsored studies
of the Cartagena Cienaga, and the recently completed study
inventorying services in substandard areas.
(b) Land acquisition: this program allows credits to be made to
the municipalities for studies to be undertaken that would
prepare inventories of land ownership in urban areas and
for the legalization, expropriation and redistribution of
land. While bold in intent, this program remains small
(47 million pesos or 3% of the budget) probably due to
political difficulties inherent in land programs. Ironically
enough, ICTVs name as an agency (Institute of Land Credit)
would lead one to believe that this program is the bulk of
their activities.
(c) Social and economic development: the intent of this
program is to provide assistance to communities in their
self-help housing construction efforts. Again, this
program has not really developed much. In fact in some
cities such as Pereira the municipalities and SENA
are providing much more assistance.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
Lending Policies
28.       Loans awarded for new construction are based on the capacity of each
family to service the loan. ICT policy is to cross-subsidize interest rates
charged to its various subprograms. Subsidy is decreased as family incomes
increase. The interest rates range from 13.8% for sites and services, 14%
for minimum units, 16% for basic intermediate houses, up to 7% with 100%
correction factor (UPAC) for the maximum units, equivalent to an interest rate
of approximately 27%.
29.       Loans for the legalization of title to land, for the acquisition
of property, and for the provision of services, are awarded to the appro-
priate municipal or state organization authorized to implement specific
community upgrading activities. Home improvement loans are supervised
credit to individuals for the installation of services in a dwelling, for
materíals substitution of elements of the existing dwelling, and for the
construction of additional space. The terms for these loans are similar
to the normal housing loans, depending on the income group.
30.       Four systems are utiLlized to finance housing construction that
define working relationship between the ICT and the builder. These systems
are:
(a) supervised credit to individual property owners;
(b) mutual help;
(c) contracted works; and
(d) joint financing of projects.
Supervised credit is used to finance minimum or basic solutions that build
on already existing public services. Mutual help is employed in those cases
when reducing costs is required. A 30% saving is estimated on the total
cost when labor is supplied by a family or community. Loans are normally
limited to the amount required to finance land and building materials. ICT
helps organize and provide technical assistance to those families partici-
pating in the mutual-help program. Contracted work represents the largest
portion of the ICT building program. Prequalification of contractors is
normal, and open competitive bidding is used. Joint financing usually entails
the developer providing 40-45% of a project's cost, the purchasers providing
15-20% as down payments, and ICT supplying a maximum of 40% of projects in
which it has an interest. This system is used for most of ICT's middle- and
higher-income housing.
31.       Loans to individual property owners for home improvement are
closely supervised. Disbursements on these loans are made against completed
works, which have to be verifi,ed by invoices of purchases and on-site in-
spection of completed works.



ANNEX 3
Page 13
32.       Loan Recuperation.  Fines are assessed on the first three months
of arrears, after which legal action is initiated to evict defaulted families
should payment not be forthcoming. In 1975, 49% of the families were current
in their payments; 38.6% were one to three months ín arrears; 6.2% were four
to eight months in arrears, and 6.2% were nine months or more behind tn their
payments. ICT víews three months of arrears as theoretically not ín default
and, therefore, considers 84% of its portfolio to be in order.  As of 1975
Col$72 million was over three months in default and subject to legal action.
33.       ICT and the IPC.  ICT will be participating in the IPC through a
number of its subprograms. Besides this, ICT's expertise, technical capacity
and regionial coverage will be utilized for the design and construction of
the CDV facilities and in providing technical assistance to local planning
offices in the preparation of the Area Development Plans.
34.       ICT's major participation will be through three of its construc-
tion programs and the land legalization program:
(a)  Home improvement credit to eligible families in
the area for the installation and construction
of sanítary facilities; improvement in the qual-
ity of the house, e.g. replace roof, concrete
floor, walls, etc., for the expansion of the
accommodation, e.g. new bedrooms, patio, etc.,
and for the legalization of lot ownership. This
program will be closely coordinated with the in-
stallation of public utilities in an area. Pro-
motional efforts and education programs by the
utilities company, ICT social workers and the
Community Health workers will aim at encouraging
residents to connect to the utilities as soon as
possible and to use them efficiently. The demand
for these loans is expected to be large. Loans
for this purpose are expected to average about
Col$16,500. For this sum a family can install
sanitary facilities within its plot and also
improve or extend its existing house.
This program is designed with a high degree of
technical assistance to the borrowers and close
supervision of the works, the majority of which
will be for the installation of sanitary facili-
ties. ICT estimates that the field teams which
they propose putting into each area, comprising
two social workers, an architect and a loan offi-
cer, can handle 400 loans per area. Within this
constraint it is estimated that the project can
provide loans to approximately 18,500 households,
approximately 40% of estimated need. Demand will



ANNEX 3
Page 14
obviously be much lower than need, as private sav-
ings, other sources of financíng and other factors
will influence effective demand for these loans.
(b)  Land regularization.  Under this program ICT offers
technical assístance and loans to the municipalities,
community groups and individual families for the
following purposes: land use and ownership studies,
cadastral surveys, acquisítion, regularization sur-
veys and legal fees for the transfer of title to
settlers. Based on previous experience a cost of
Col$1,540 per plot is estimated. The municipality
recovers these costs through the sale of titles,
betterment levies and general taxes. Approximately
48% of area residents (43,000 households) are still
illegal settlers, 15% on privately owned land.
Under this project all of these households will
acquire the rights cf occupancy. Titles will be
processed and made available to approximately 31,000
households (72%). The project would not finance the
acquisition of land, but agreement should be reached
at negotiations that resources will be available for
the acquisition of privately owned land which was
squatted on, approximately 5,300 plots, 12% of the
illegal plots. The remaining 3% of illegal plots
which are in private ownership, are "pirate" devel-
opments (i.e. not squatted) and will be regularized
in the normal manner through the Superintendent of
Banks.
(c) New Housing. As part of the regularization and im-
provement of the area, there will be the need for
eradication and reseltlement of a number of house-
holds. Only those cases established to be abso-
lutely necessary wilL be eradicated. The Area
Improvement Plans identify and quantify the extent
of eradication and provision for resettlement. ICT
will develop small projects within and in proximity
to the area to accomniodate this resettlement. These
will conform to the serviced lots concept and loans
will be available to purchasers for the acquisition
of lots and for auto-construction of sanitary facil-
ities and enclosed shelters (see para. 17). Where
possible, provision will also be made for a net
increase in housing by developing more serviced
lots than are required for resettlement.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
Based on the costs and selling prices of ICTs com-
pleted or ongoing projects, an average loan of
Col$27,500 per unit was used (para. 18). This
estimate is based on the majority of loans
(approximately 85%) being for serviced lots and
lots with sanitary cores, the remaining lots
would have enclosed shelters provided by ICT.
Construction loans would be available to eligi-
ble occupants to complete their tuits.
It ís estímated that no more than 7% of the
households (6,572 houses) will have to be
eradicated. The project aims to provide 7,300
new units. ICT has programs for new construc-
tion in all of the municipalities and these
will be coordinated with this project in order
to satisfy the demand for new housing.
(d) Neighborhood Improvement Projects. Because the
local utilíty companies will be receiving loans
from INSFOPAL for the provision of services in the
areas, this line of credit wíll not be required
through ICT. However, ICT will continue to
offer credit to the municipalities and Local
Community Action Groups for the improvement of
neighborhoods. The types of project eligible
for financing would include:
(í) paving of roads and footpaths;
(íi) excavating and lining storm water drains;
(iii) constructing bridges over canals, etc.;
(iv) flood and erosion control; and
(v) public open areas and recreation areas.
Loans, particularly for roads and drains, would
be recovered by the municipalities through the
system of valorization charges. Loans to Communíty
Action Groups would be recovered from the Groups
directly. The demand for these subprojects have
not been quantified. ICT feels that because of
the large amount of other projects which will be
going on in the areas and which will occupy the
community and individual households, the demand
for these loans during this period will be rela-
tively small. It is also felt that if too much



ANNEX 3
Page 16
recoverable investment were to be made in the
areas in such a short period, it would over-
stretch the financial capacity of the community
to repay and could lead to serious defaults.
The demand for these loans will come out of the Area Development Plans and
ICT feels confident that they can cater for this from their own resources.
36.       Proceeds from the Bank's loan will be used only for subloans to
beneficiaries wlth incomes below C$3,600 per month, with the majority of
subloans to beneficiaries earning less than C$3,000 per month, the approxi-
mate relative poverty level for urban areas of Colombia. Residents of the
area with incomes in excess of these will however be eligible for loans
from ICT under their normal programs. These loans would be at higher in-
terest rates.
37.       Projections indicate that about Col$462 million (US$8.7 million)
may be required for new housing and Col$702 million (US$13.1 million) of
loans for housing improvements could be processed and administered. It is
therefore proposed that allocation of Col$1164 million (US$21.8 million) for
these activities be left to the detaíl proposals of the Project Implementation
Plans and ultimate demand. Because a large percentage of the land tenure
regularization loans will be for the acquisition of land, proceeds from the
Bank loan will not be used for this component.



ANNEX 3
Page 17
Water Supply and Sewerage--National Municipal Development Agency
(INSFOPAL)
38.       The rapid and uneven growth of Colombia's urban population has re-
sulted in inadequate public services. The Government has been making an
effort to alleviate the gap between demand and availability of services. The
provision of water and sewerage services is a very important part of its
programs. At present, the Bank has a number of different loans to improve
water supply and sewerage disposal in the principal cities of Colombia and to
strengthen the responsible institutions. Some of these loans, presently under
execution, are facing problems. A number of new projects under preparation
are directed to smaller communities.
39.       The proposed water supply component is part of an integrated program
directed to improve the living conditions of the population of 27 substandard
areas in 23 intermediate cities of Colombia. The objective is to extend the
coverage of potable water supply to the entire population of these areas.
This will be carried out by means of the necessary extensions in the existing
water distribution networks and by the metered connections of those houses
which, untíl now, are not connected. The total cost of the water supply
component was estimated at US$12.4 million as of December 1977, which repre-
sents 20% of the total project cost.
40.       The water supply component will cover 32 areas in 20 cities -
Armenia, Pasto, Bucaramuga, Ibague, Tulua, Manizales, Neiva, Sincelejo,
Villavicencio, Montería, Quibdo, Tumaco, Barrancabermeja, Sabanalarga, Turbo,
Pereira, Cartago, Girardot, Cucuta, and San Andres.
41.       The program would focus on specific geographic zones in the city
where there is a high percentage of urban poor living without access to
services and in poor environmental conditions. Selection of the areas in
each city has been done by DNP (National Planning Department) in collabora-
tion with the executing agency of the program, SIP (Secretaria de Integracion
Popular). The scope of each subproject is being reviewed by INSFOPAL in order
that they be adapted to the actual necessities in each city. The coverage
index determined by DNP was an obligatory house connection for the entire
population of the project areas. A large percentage of the residents in the
target area are settled without legal claim to their land, however, a compo-
nent of the project will regularize this situation. The total population
of the area in the water supply component has been estimated by INSFOPAL as
545,000 inhabitants living in 80,000 houses (the average number of residents
per dwelling is 6.85). At present, the existing water supply facilities cover
50% of the population, i.e., 40,000 houses.
42.       The subcomponents of the water supply project are as follows:
(a) Extensions in the water supply distribution networks with
a total length of about 210 m;



ANNEX 3
Page 18
(b) Improvement of the distribution networks in the project
areas by the construction of about 19 km of main pipes;
(e) Household connections serving 40,000 dwellings and
rehabilitation of about 1,500 existing connections that
are in very poor condition;
(d) Water transmission pipelines with a total length of about
14 km to carry water from the existing facilities to the
project area;
(e) Unallocated funds to improve sources and treatment
facilities in order to guarantee production capacity
in the near future.
43.       At present, the projected water facilities have been defined in
four cities: Pereira, Cartago, Girardot, and Cucuta. Design of the remain-
ing 16 cities is under preparation, mainly by consultants, but following the
standards set by INSFOPAL. Designs being prepared for the distribution net-
work extensions require an analysis of the whole distribution system in
each city in order to fit in with their water supply master plan. Engineer-
ing designs for any works necessary to supply the additional water supply
in each city included in the project should be carefully reviewed in order
to avoid distribution extensions without a guaranteed production capacity in
the near future. For this reason, a special unallocated fund to improve
sources and treatment facilities was included in the project, to cover neces-
sary facilities where subprojects are defined. In the case of Cucuta, with
its project already defined, special considerations should be taken because
important works would be necessary to cover demands after 1981. Assurances
should be obtained during negotiations that a technical study of water sources
and treatment facilities should be carried out for this subproject in order
to identify additional works to be undertaken. Table 5 gives a list of the
selected communities and general estimated data on each subproject.
44.       Cost estimates are given in Table 5 for each city and each item.
These costs have been studied by the empresas and their consultants, re-
viewed by INSFOPAL's Planning Office, and the appraisal mission and are
considered reasonable. These costs are based on estimated prices as of
December 1977.
The following are the prices of the water supply component:



ANNEX 3
Page 19
Description                                Col$ Million
Total Base Cost                               362.8
Engineering and
Administration                                 36.3
Physical Contingencíes (15%)                   59.9
Price Escalation (31%)                        203.4
Total                       662.4
The average project cost per connectíon is Col$15,018 (US$285) whích can be
considered as adequate. The differences in costs among subprojects are due
mainly to the degree of dispersion of the populatíon, the city or area level
general works needed to guarantee water supply in the project areas, and to
existing differences in manual labor cost ín the different citíes.
45.       The proposed urban development project would be carried out duríng
the 1978-1981 period. The water supply component is scheduled to be phased
with the other components of the project, and will extend into 1982.
46.       The Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) will be the
implementing agency for the project's water supply component. INSFOPAL 1s a
decentralized institution with overall responsibility for planning, budgeting
and training in the water supply and sewerage services for towns with popula-
tions over 2,500. In July 1972, the Bank made a loan of US$9.1 million
(Loan 860-CO) to INSFOPAL to help this institution finance water supply and
sewerage works in seven medíum-sized cities; in December 1974, the Bank made
a further loan (Loan 1072-CO) of US$27 million to INSFOPAL to help it meet
water supply needs of eight more cities with sewerage needs in six of them
and, in addition, to increase the water supply resources of 30 other towns
by drilling wells. One of the objectives of the Bank in making the loans
was to develop the institutional capacity of INSFOPAL so as to assist the
empresas and municipalities in technical operations, administration, finance,
and project preparation. It was intended that INSFOPAL "be reoriented,
strengthened and transformed into a competent national institution through
which a major share of investment funds for the sector would be channeled."
(Appraisal of the second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project).
47.       Both loans are under execution and, at present, INSFOPAL's perfor-
mance is good. A proposed reorganization has been planned and the Board has
approved its general lines. There are three important facets of INSFOPAL's
reorganization: (a) its operations and construction responsibilities were
transformed into autonomous entities created from existing INSFOPAL branches,
(b) the scope was expanded to cover garbage collection and disposal,
slaughterhouses and municipal markets, and (c) INSFOPAL was charged with the
establishment of fiscal policies which would make the operating entities in



ANNEX 3
Page 20
five areas under its responsibility financially viable. The sections
of INSFOPAL that are more directly concerned with this component are the
External Credit Office (ECO) and the Planning Office. The latter will
be in charge of the project preparation and ECO will be in charge of the
implementation and supervision of the works.
48.       INSFOPAL's technical and financial staff should be increased to
take care of this project without affecting the supervision of Loans 860-CO/
1072-CO. The need for new personnel was evaluated with the ECO Assistant
Director. The needs will be three teams each consisting of one engineer and
one financial analyst. Assurances should be received at negotiations that
this will be done. The loan will be to the Government of Colombia which will
on-lend to INSFOPAL. INSFOPAL, in turn, will lend to the local utility
companies for the subproject. Dealings with the Bank will be the same as
those followed for the LCPWS sector loans.
49.       The water supply and sewerage services in each of the 20 cíties
are run by either empresas or acuas under INSFOPAL's authority. They will
be responsible for the execution, local admínistration and maintenance of
the works carried out under this loan. There are differences in technical
capacity among the cities for carrying out the project component. While many
of them are able to execute and supervise the works effectively, others will
need to hire consultants. Designs as already mentioned, are under prepara-
tion mainly by consultants.
50.       Procurement will follow the Bank guidelines and the existing pro-
cedures that are presently being used under Loans 860/1072-CO. All contracts
for goods with an estimated cost of US$150,000 or more would be awarded
under international competitive bidding. Contracts for civil works, and goods
under US$150,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with local procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
51.       INSFOPAL should submit to the Bank quarterly technical and financial
data for each city, as was agreed upon, for the Loans 860/1072-CO.  This
information will include the monitoring indicators used in the existing loans.
52.       Each empresa was examined in order to determine the abiiíty in main-
taining the systems to be constructed by the project. Most of them have a
good technical staff dealing with distribution network maintenance. A few of
them should be examined further in order that action be taken to improve their
existing capacity.
53.       Each empresa will recover the whole capital cost plus all of the
operating costs from benefíciaries through tariff charges. Each empresa will
repay up to 60% of the loan amount with 12% interest to INSFOPAL on the same
terms as the Bank loan. The remaining 40-60% will be retained by the Empresa
in a fund to initíally finance sewerage extensions serving the same or similar
benefíciaries.



TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
URBAN MARGINAL ZONES: INVENTORY OF ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
ouses
Rate of a                                        Houses           Still       Houses       Houses            louses
Grovth -'      Population    Number of         Originally        Witbou'b    Wíthout /   Without   b         to be     Y
Population      1951-64 1964-73   of Project    Houses in           Settled          Tenure        Water        S ewerage b   Eradicated
(1973)a/          %      %         Areas f/   Project Areas       Illegally         l io.    %   Noo.        No. -             No.   %
(1)                (2)             (3)           (4)                (5)              (6)          (7)        (8)                (9)
Pereira 1             202,000        5.25   1.31          24,746        2,898              2,530         2,190  76       -          363  13         182   6
Pereira II                                                 24,596       2,678              2,283           431  16      67   3      736  27           -    O
Girardot               59,000        4.74  -1.38           20,313        2,699             2,699         1,459  54    226   8       918  34         170   6
Cucuta I              220,000        5.60   4.36           39,984        5,155             5,155         5,155 100  2,052  40   3,673  71           i146   3
Cucuta II                                                  24,174        5,487             5,487         1,492  27  2,406  44   2,944  54           110   2
Cucuta III                                                 20,940       6,810              6,810         4,167  61  2,424  36   3,322  49         1,472  22
Cucuta IV                                                  28,166        7,622             7,622         2,750  36  1,419  19   1,399  18            744  10
Cartago                69,000        4.43   2.26           15,105        2,205             2,205           280  13    284  13       493  22          100   5
Turbo                  1 44,000                            13,218        1,529          no data           -       0  1,349  88   1,529 100          -      O
Sabanalarga                                                19,000        3,700          no data            814  22  3,071  83   3,700 100           -      O
síncelejo              62,ooo        5.39  4.87             8,154          875               875           805  92    789  90       875 100           14
Quibdo d/              50,000                              12,092        i,542             1,542            557  36    111   7       787  51         250  16
Monteria               90,000        8.28  2.57            20,127        3,066             2,040         1,368  45  2,040  67   3,066 100            297  10
Villavicencio          83,000        7.37  6.63            23,709        2,593             2,593         1,1421  55  1,083  42   1,038  40           590  23
Armenia               165,000        5.75  0.68            18,290        2,614             2,205           158   6   -        0      395  15         274  10
Tumaco -               39,000                              38,247        5,622             5,622         1,630  29  5,622 100   5,622 100           -      O
Barrancabermeje        87,000        6.58  4.02            14,760        2,732             2,732         1,719  63  2,401  88   2,499  91            700  26
Valledupar             87,000       11.95  7.38            29,600        4,045             4,o45         3,095  77  3,490  86   3,745  93           -       O
Ibague                176,000        6.33  3.70            17,495        1,320             1,320         1,100  83  1,060  80   1,060  80            210  16
Tulua                  87,000        5.14  4.58            il,140        1,377             1,377          -       0    934  68       934  68        -       O
Pasto                 119,000        3.99  3.90             5,764        1,822          no data           -       O   -       O    -       O        -       O
Bucaramanga /         341,000        5.60  4.50            26,333        1,395             2,773            420  30    152  11       152  11         128   9
San Andres             19,000                              17,100        4,245             4,245         4,245 100  4,245 100   4,245 100           -       o
Manizales             202,000        6.33  3.26             4,712        1,474             1,474            508  34    306  21       306  21         231  16
Santa Marta           102,000        6.67  1.48            20,000        1,155             1,155         1,155 100  1,155 100   1,155 100           -       O
Neiva                 105,000        6.31  3.50            31,260        2,723             2,723         2,723 100  1,405  52   1,405  52            384  14
Riohachad              4o0,000                             20,000        2,000             2,0              200  10  2 000 100   2,000 100          -       O
TOTAL          2,483,000                            549,025       821866             73,512        39,842   8 37L '         I47,3G T 35              1
%                                                  22% of (1)                       89% of (41   54% of(5)
Colombia--Urban   14,189,000         5.36  3.74                                                                              10% e        20%c
--TOTAL   22,800,000         3.12  2.62                                                                             37% c         49c
a/  Source:  Urbanization, Internal Migration and Spatial Policy in Colombia, World Bank Report No. 1154-co, April 1976.
5b  Source:  Inventario de Zonas Subnormales de Vivienda y Proyectos de Desarrollo Progresivo-Colombia-ICT-1975.
c/  Source:  Selowsky Marcelo, Availability of Public Services by Incomse Groups.  Evolution Between 1970 and 1974.  Development Research                            ( 
Center, World Bank, November 1975.
d/  Municipalities which are not intermediate size cítíes, included because of geographic and other considerations.



TABLE 2
COLOMb IA
Urban Development Project
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT
HOUSING LOANS
1977                                     1978                                      1979                                    1980
Improvemfent                             Improvement                               Improvement                             Improvement
Tenure        Loans       New Housing  Tenure           Loans      New Nousing   Tenure           Loans       New Housing  Tenure        Loans        New Rousing
Cities               -No. Lots       No.         No. Units   No. Lots         No.         No. Units    No. Lots          No.        No. Units   No. Lots    No.              No. Units
Pereira, Zone I              840           99             110        1,350            400          220            -              400          141          -          234             -
Pereira, Zone II                                                        431            132          -             -              400           79          -          400            188
Girardot                     840           -              110           619            330         220            -              400          110           -         400             -
Cucuta, Zone I               840           -              110         1,680            400         220          1,680            400          220           955       400            111
Cucuta, Zone II                                                         840            100          -             652            400           -            -         400            110
Cucuta, Zone III                                                                                                  840             -            -         1,680        400             -
Cucuta, Zone IV                                                                                                                                             840       200             -
Cartago                      280           -              110           -              400         210            -              400           -            -         295             -
Villavicencio                                                           600             -          110            821            400          220           -         400             -
Armenta                                                                 158             -          110            -              400           -            -         136             -
Sabanalarga                                                             600             -          110            214            400          220                     400             40
Quibdo                                                                  557             -          110            -              400          220           -         144             74
Monteria                                                                600             -          110            768            400          220           -         400            220
Barrancabermeja                                                         600             -          110          1,119            400          220           -         400            220
Tumaco                                                                  600             -          110          1,030            400          220           -         400            220
Valledupar                                                              600             -          110          1,200            400          220        1,200        400              74
ibague                                                                  600             -          114            500            400          220           -         400             -
Bucaramanga                                                             180             -          110            -              400          167           -         400             -
Turbo                                                                                                             _              200           -            -         400            152
Tulua                                                                                                             -               -           110           -         400              27
Pasto                                                                                                             -              162           -            -         400            182
San Andres                                                                                                        600             -           110           -         400             -
Manizales                                                                                                         508              -          110           -         400
Santa Marta                                                                                                       600             -           115           -         400
Neiva                                                                                                             600              -          116           -         400
Riohacha                                                                                                          200              -          110           -         400
Sincelejo                                                                                                         600              -          101           205       400
Total          2,800            99             440       10,015          1,762        1,974         11,932          6,762       3,249         4,880      9,809          1,618          (CoT0)
Tenure                    2,800 @ Col$ 1,540 = Col$ 4,312 a/    10,015 @ Col$ 2,000   Col$20,030-/   11,932 @ Col$ 2,700 = Col$ 32,216-   4,880 @ Col$ 3,200 = Col$ 15,616-                            72,174
Improvement Loans            99 @ Col$16,500 = Col$ 1,634            1,762 @ Col$23,000 = Col$40,526            6,762 @ Col$29,000 = Col$196,098          9,809 @ Col$34,000 = Col$333,506            571,764
New Housing Loans           440 @ Col$27,500 = Col$12,100             1,974 @ Col$38,000 = Col$75,012           3,249 @ Col$48,000 = Col$155,952          1,618 @ Col$57,000 = Col$ 92,226            335,290
Col$18,046                                Col$135,568                                 Col$384,266                               Col$441,348        979,228
Adjustment to Dec. 1977 prices    1,361,128
a/ In Col$ '000.



TABLE 3
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL (ICT)
1977-1980 Balances
(Col$ '000)
Year
Item-                           1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
ASSETS                        11,150.9  13,490.3    16,247.8   19,303.1   23,045.2
1.  Current                  5,068.9   6,082.7      7,299.2    8,759.0   10,510.9
a.  Disposable             177.5     213.0        255.6       306.7       368.1
b.  Realizable          4,891.4   5,869.7       7,043.6    8,452.3   10,142.8
2.  Long Term                5,936.3   7,228.3      8,727.7   10,271.4   12,197.0
3.  Fixed                      128.6      160.8        201.0       251.2       314.0
4.  Other                       17.1       18.5         19.9        21.5        23.3
LIABILITIES                   11,150.9  13,490.3    16,247.8   19,303.1   23,045.2
1.  Current                  1,702.1   2,042.5      2,451.0    2,941.2    3,529.5
2.  Long Term                4,527.8   5,555.6      6,832.1    8,128.4    9,868.2
3.  Other                    1,617.1   1,859.7      2,138.6    2,459.4    2,828.4
4.  Countable Capital        3,303.9   4,032.5      4,826.1    5,774.1    6,819.1
Source:  Economic Studies Department, Financial Analysis Section, ICT.



TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL (ICT)
PROJECTIONS OF INCOME/EXPENSES AND FLOW OF FUNDS--1976-1980
(Col$ '000)
Year
Item                              1976        1977        1978        1979       1980        Total
1. CURRENT INCOME                   1,378.1    1,764.7    2,362.3    2,993.3    3,712.0    12,210.4
2. CURRENT EXPENDITURE                405.3       487.8       634.1       824.4    1,072.0      3,423.6
NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST
(1-2)                          972.8    1,276.9    1,728.2    2,168.9    2,640.0         8,786.8
A. SOURCES
Total generated income ICT      972.8    1,276.9    1,728.2    2,168.9    2,640.0         8,786.8
National Budget Contribution   409.4        728.6       793.6       948.0    1,045.0      3,924.6
Internal Credit Resources    1,356.1    2,640.0    2,427.0    2,846.0    3,469.5    12,738.6
External Credit Resources        O           O           O           O          O            O
Other Capital Resources  /      157.6       207.5         4.0         4.0       0           373.1
Total Sources           2,895.9    4,853.0    4,952.8    5,966.9    7,154.5    25,823.1
B. USES
Investment                    2,066.8    3,901.8    3,818.8    4,848.6    5,890.0    20,526.0
Debt Service                    736.6       951.2    1.134.0    1,118.3    1,264.5        5.204.6
Total Uses              2,803.4    4,853.0    4,952.8    5,966.9    7,154.5    25,730.6
SURPLUS (+) DEFICIT (-) (A-B)   92.5         O           O          O           0            92.5
TOTAL INCOME                  3,301.2    5,340.8    5,586.9    6,791.3    8,226.5    29,246.7            Q z
TOTAL EXPENDITURE             3,208.7    5,340.8    5,586.9    6,791.3    8,226.5    29,154.2
CURRENT EXPENDITURE INCLUDING
DEBT SERVICE                   1,141.9    1,439.0    1,768.1    1,942.7    2,336.5         8,628.2
la Including balance and D.E. bonds resources.  4-year Income-Expenditure Plan (Planning Office,
calculated by SAF.  Bogota, June 2, 1977).



ANNEX 3
Page 25
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ICT'S PROPORTION OF INVESTMENTS 1975
L TS 1.5%
EN    L G         ENTAL
/|I N V    DESTME NT
37/2%      C:                             O       18.2%
/     /      MINI'~' MUM UNITS       I-\\
OTHERS        \\INCREMENTAL
/   /  <   /    37.8%  \DEVELOPMENT OF
l             /           <  /                       \         \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEiGHBORHOODS
t           /                \                        \         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.7%
/          \          ~~~~~~~D.S.P  18   
LTS  SETOTAL                                            OTTRS 18.2%
_ P INVESTMENTE1V;E
1,700       j_   VIMILITAR                Bank -   6
MILLIONS  j_            |         _ I~~~NDIRECT
\ / -~~~~~~I I I~~NVESTMENT
\ / | ~~~~~~~~~~~~4,1%
\    \       ~~BASIC UNITS       ~       ;/                                           OTRAS
\    \       ~~26.5%           j\//                                                   32,6%
\   \                    /            \~~~~~ MAXIMUM UNITS    //
CNTUTION
OF HOUSES FOR
INCREMENTAL
~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT
LTS = SERVICED LOTS
D)SP=~ PUBLIC SERVICES
Worid Bank  17669






1 3BRD- 13049
SEPTEMBER 1977
PA) MA          i             8COLOMBIA
tVENEZUELA    URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
w e2ra ®BOGOA    1               Typical Block Layout-Serviced Lots Development
9- .    o  ó)BOGOTA       4 -
COLOMBIAreira       9                                     City of Pereira
COlOMBIA   c
ECUAD9  A 
40°- PERU            7       40 1 
f .Int.rr  ¡al- 
Boun  'Ni°n J]i9 L,S
780      740     ¡700
This map has been prepared by the    T
World Bank s staff  eaxcusively for
tha convenience of the re,aders of                                              7
the report to which ít is sttached. 
The d.nominations used and the
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
Worid Bank and its affiliates. any  T
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsement
or acceptanca of such beundaries.
WV~~~~~~~~~~~7i     i                             í7T
<1
°41  __________                                                 ___1____
31.20-1-----  36.30 -     31.20 -       31.20------   36-36.00 -   31.20
10.00
98.40                                 - 98.40                1
i                      - ~~~~~~~~206.001
Ll | t i    lRESIDENTIAL LOTS
MAIN ACCESS ROAD
AREA: 43.458.56 M2
4.3 HECTARES
LOTS OF 9.00 X 6.00 Meters - 156                              DENSITY: 110 HOUSES PER HECTARE
LOTS OF 3.90 X 15.60 Meters- 320                             SALABLE AREAS: 27.892.80 M2
TOTAL NUMBER OF LOTS         - 476                            OPEN AREA: 15.565.76 M2
NOT TO SCALE






\\\ ~                 ~~ \- -/ 1,    /\ , - '' -//,
.,~                                  \l.             --< "->//                                                                                                                                  "»''
TemiporarY  hte
Sainitory Core,
) -Baisic Serviced Lot                                    \\X/-> ,                                                                         /
()-Sarnitary Core (W C; Shower & Kitchen)                                         /       <<,
()-Sanitary Core and Temporary Shelter                                  .                                          /-CO                                                MBAr 
at rear of lot. , ....... ~~~~~~~~URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT o 
(0-First stage enciosure at front ot lot.                                                                             ....     i'-\y/SERVICED LOTS 
At this stage temporary shelter may be retained.                               '            \      .'/PHASED  DEVELOPMENT OF LOT                                                                         -
()-Later stages would include a second floor with 
2 or 3 bedroorms and/or conversion ot the  
temporary shelter into a permenant room.\
W Yi an-76



_________   -~   - .  9_0_  1 5.60 
-  -  5.70     _________ -.0               .10    .        1.00    .50            2.10 2.90                                         .1 0             10        1.0      l
u 90           1        ____4 60                                                               _| .90                                                                    3       2__ 2.70 2 f  7  
.lo                                        .10       .10                        .10                           .1 .10                                        10       110
2nd Stage                                                                                                   1st Stage
0
LA.
10                                              10        10                        .1                            100.0.0
9            _80.
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SERVICED LOTS
o;7                                                                                     .                                                                                       _ = m  .TYPICAL HOUSE DESIGN
290                  .60    .90  1  .90  2l 3.30                                       2.60                      2.90
.10                                 10                       10                              .10
orn
3rd Stage                                                                                                                                             >
WorCd Bank-17668                             0W



ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
DESIGN STANDARDS AND COST ESTIMATES
A. Design Standards
1.        Sewerage and Water Supply.  The subprojects have been designed gen-
erally in accordance with INSFOPAL's standards. The proposals provide for
AC water mains (2" + 3" diameter) along streets with 1/2 inch diameter GMS
or PVC pipes for domestic connections. All connections will have stopcocks,
meters and meter boxes. Sewerage laterals will be AC pipe. Domestic sew-
erage connections will be 6 inch diameter salt-glazed ware pipes and will
include an inspection chamber for each dwelling.
2.        Housing Credit.  Based on it's experience ICT has estimated an aver-
age cost of Col$1,540 to process and provide tenure for an illegal settler.
This cost covers surveys, legal and other costs but excludes the cost of
land acquisition. In the majority of project areas the lands are already
in public ownership. Where this is not the case, ICT makes loans available
to the Municipality for such acquisition.
3.        Estimates for home improvement loans are based on an average loan
of Col$16,500, which covers the cost of domestic connections for water
supply and sewerage, the construction of sanitary facilities and a sum for
constructing a new room or to improve substandard elements of an existing
house, e.g. roof, walls, floor, windows, etc.
4.        An average loan of Col$27,500 is estimated for new housing.  These
estimates are based on ICT's current costs in its sites and services pro-
gram (Annex 3). ICT presently constructs a basic serviced lot at a cost of
Col$18,000. Addition of a sanitary core and an enclosed shelter of 30 m2
increases this to approximately Col$50,000.
5.        Health.  The health component is designed within the norms and
standards devised for the National Health Plan (Annex 1). These norms and
standards have been developed with Bank assistance and a PARO consultant
and are being applied to the health components of three Bank projects in
Colombia--the Integrated Rural Development (DRI), the Nutrition (PAN) and
the Urban (IPC).



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Type of
Health             Health Centers in
Center             Other Bank Projects
(HC)          Jamaica Population        India
A      B      C    Type II   Type III    Population
Area, m2                     183    219    264       230        448          595
Population Served ('000)    6-10  10-20  20-40         6         20           30-80
Doctors in Health Centers    1        2      3
Auxiliary Nurses in HC         1      2      3
Auxiliary Nurses in the
Fíeld                      1       2      3
Community Health Workers
in the Field               4      8      12
6.        Primary Education.  The project will finance the construction of
classrooms, sanitary facilities and adíinistration facilities for primary
schools. A standard classroom of 60 m with an average capacity of 40 pupils
(maximum capacity 45 pupils) was used. These conform to the standards being
used by the Colombian InsSitute of School Construction (ICCE).2 A standard
sanitary facility of 25 m and an administration block of 64 m , with accommo-
dation for headmaster's office, teachers' room, watchman's office and stor-
age, are designed  o serve a five-classroom school.  Net ipace per student
works out at 1.5 m , and gross space per student at 2.2 m . These standards
are reasonable and comparable with standards in other Bank projects.
7.        Local Enterprise Service Unit (BT).  Training workshops for SENA,
offices and storage accommodation will be constricted for this facility.
Standard flexible open workshops based on a 50 m module adaptable to the
wide range of demands will be provided. Two types will be built, a small
basic facility (Type A) for zones with populations between 8,000 and 20,000
and a larger one (Type B) for zones with populatioi up to 30,000. The
basic facility will have four modules, i.e., 200 m plus storage aid admin-
istration and the larger facility up to eight modules, i.e., 400 m
8.      2 Integrated Child and Family Welfare Centers (CAIP).  A basic CAIP
of 400 m will be provided catering for 100 children in the central facility.
This CAIP is designed to increase its coverage by up to 100% through the de-
velopment of community based services. Because the CAIP provides a range
of services to the community, besides the day-care program, their areas
appear to be reasonably large for the number of children being served in
the central facility.  Based on the actual accommodation all9cated to the
day care program in the CAIP, tthe average net ratio is 1.5 m  per child,
which is reasonable.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        Neighborhood Development Center (CDV).  The CDV facilities will be
geographically located within the project area, within easy access to all
neighborhoods. The sites will be served with water, sewerage disposal,
electricity and telecommunications to the district hospital and have vehi-
cular access. The total area required to accommodate the proposed facili-
ties, parking and future growth, is estimated at 3 ha.
10.       Construction will be simple, single story load bearing construc-
tion, utilizing local materials and the traditional building technology of
the region. Construction will be labor-intensive and designed to utilize
the level of skills of the residents of the area.
B. Cost Estimates
11.       Cost estimates of the project are based on applicable market prices
as of December 1977. Physical contingencies of 15% have been allowed for
civil and building construction, and for equipment and furnishings.
12.       Price contingencies of 44% have been based on the anticipated rate
of inflation for local construction, locally manufactured equipment and im-
ported equipment, in accordance with the implementation schedule shown in
Annex 5 Chart 17718. Local construction and manufacturing costs have in-
creased in the recent past at annual rates comparable to general inflation in
the country. It has been assumed that this relationship will continue for the
duration of the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Cost Estimates
US$ millions            Col$ millions
Item                     Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Social Services Subproject
Land                                    .3      -         .3    -16        -        16
Community Development Centiers         3.3    1.2        4.5    175       64       239
Education                              1.9      .4       2.3    103       21       124
Health                                  .3      .1        .4      20       4        24
Family & Chiíld Welfare                 .6      .1        .7     30        6        36
Subtotal                            6.4    1.8       8.2    344        95       439
Employment & Productivity Subproject
Vocational Training                    1.4      .7       2.1      74      39       113
Small Enterprises Credit               3.3      .8       4.1    175       44       219
Technical Assistance                    .1      -         .1       3       -         3
Subtotal                            4.8    1.5       6.3    252        83       335
Physical & Environmental Improvement
Subproject
Land Regularization and Tenure          .9      .3       1.2     48       16        64
Home Improvement Loans                 5.9    2.0        7.9    317      106       423
New Housing (sites & services)         3.9    1.3        5.2    209       69       278
Water Supply & Sewerage                5.1    1.7        6.8    272       91       363
Subtotal                           15.8    5.3      21.1    846       282    1,128
Project Management & Evaluation          3.0      .5       3.5    159       27       186
Engineering & Supervision (10%)            .7     .4       1.1      41      19        60
TOTAL               30.7    9.5       40.2  1,642      506    2,148
Physical Contingenci    la               4.0    1.2        5.2    207       63       270
Price Contingencies   a                 14.8    3.8       16.6    681      204       885
GRAND TOTAL         47.4   14.5       62.0  2,530      773    3,303
la  A physical contingency of 15% on base cost estimates as well as a price
contingency of 44% on both local and foreign cost items, including physical
contingencies was allowed for all subprojects except the small enterprises
credit program.



TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
Urban Developmient Project
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(Col$'000)
Engineering
and                      Physical
Base Costs   Supervision                 Contingencies                 Price                     Us$
Items                     1978     1979      1980       1981   (Dec. 77)         (10%)        Subtotal        (15%)     Subtotal  Contingencies  TOTAL    (million)
Social Services
Land                                    9,558    5,994       648        -         16,200           -           16,200       -            16,200         -         16,200         .30
Community Development Centers         121,929   90,850   26,299         -        239,078       23,908         262,986      39,448       302,434       134,046   436,480         8.17
Education                             57,099   40,963   26,066          -        124,128           -          124,128      18,619        142,747       63,269   206,016         3.86
Health                                 11,397    7,835    4,511         -         23,743           -           23,743       3,561         27,304       12,102    39,406           .74
Famiíly and Child Welfare              18,044    9.743    8,300         -         36,087           -           36,087       5.413         41,500       18,394    59.894         1.13
Subtotal                        218.027  155.385   65,824          -       439,236        23.908                      67.041       530,185      227.811   757996          14.20
Employment & Productivity
Vocational training (SENA)             13,208   28,015   38,894       32,851    112,968            -          112,968       16,945       129,913       57,581   187,494         3.51
Small Enterprises Credit (CFP)         20,880   43,848   66,816       77,256    208,800            -          208,800      -             208,800        -        208,800        4.00
Savings & Loans Cooperatives (SIP)   2,000    4,000    4,000            -         10,000           -           10,000      -              10,000        -         10,000          .19
Technical Assistance (TA)               1.770      695       695                   3,160           -            3.160          474         3,634        1.611      5.245         .10
Subtotal                    37.858   76.558  11.45        110,107    334928                        334,928       17.419       352,347       59.192   411,539         T_
Physical & Environmental Improvement
Land Regularizatíon & Tenure            5,994   21,442   25,546       10,448      63,430            _          63,430        -            63,430        28,114   91,544         1.71
Home Improvement Loans                  2,271   40,411  155,086    224,969    422,737               -         422,737       63,410       486,147       215,472  701,619        13.14
New Housing (Sites & Services)         16,819   75,456  124,193       61,848    278,316             -         278,316      41,746        320,062       141,859  461,921         8.65
Water Supply & Sewerage               137,860  145.116   50.791       29,023    362,790        36,279         399.069       59,860       458,929       203.408  662.337        12.40
Subtotal                   162,944  282,425  355,616    326.288  1,127,273            36,279     1,163.552           165,016    1,328.568   588.8531.917,421         35.90
Prolect Management & Evaluation         30,012   56.294   62,851       30,735    179,892           _           179,892      26,984        206,876         9.138  216.014         4.05
Costs (Dec. 1977)                448,841  570,662  594,696    467,130  2,081,329           60,187       2,141,516    276,460    2,417,976
Engineering  & Supervision              25.979   23.597    7.709       2.902       60,187       60,187
Subtotal                    474,820  594,259  602,405    470,032  2,141,516
Physical Contingencies                  65,457   75.768   72,467       62,768                                              276,460
Subtotal                    540,277  670,027  674,872    532,800                                                             2,417,976
Price Contingencies                    431,717  266,541  145i78        40,948                                                                           884,994
Subtotal                    971,994  936,568  820,660    573,748                                                                                     3.302,970        61.95
Estimated Annual Expenditure
adiusted for inflatíon               594,395  869,090  985,293    854,192                                                                                      3,302,970
TOTAL (US$ million)          13.8      17.5      17.3        13.4                                                                                                     62.0
~Iz



TABLE 2
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
COMPUTATION OF PRICE CONTINGENCIES
(Col$'000)
Total Base Costs
1978       1979        1980        1981         (Dec. 77)
Social Services (excluding 3and)           208,469    149,391      65,176        -              423,036
Vocational Training and TA --a (SENA)       14,978     28,710      39,589      32,851           116,128
Land Regularization                          5,994     21,442      25,546      10,448            63,430
Housing Improvement                          2,271     40,411    155,086    224,969             422,737
Sites and Services                          16,819     75,456    124,193       61,848           278,316
Water Supply & Sewerage                    137,860    145,116      50,791      29,023           362,790
Engincering & Supervision                   25,979     23,597       7,709       2,902            60,187
Subtotal                   412,370    484,123    468,090    362,041            1,726,624
Physical Contingencies                65,457      75,768      72,467      56,401           270,093
Subtotal                   477,827    559,891    540,557    418,442            1,996,717
Price Contingencies                  431,717    266,541    145,788        40,948           884,994
TOTAL             909,544    826,432    686,345    459,390            2,881,711
Direct Foreign Component (8%)
Estimated rate of inflation                 8%      7 1/2%         7%          7%
Estimated annual disbursements           38,226      44,791      43,245      33,475           159,737
Undisbursed balance                     121,511      76,720      33,475        -
Price contingency on disbursements         1,529      1,814       1,757       1,455              6,555
Price contingency on undisbursed
balance                              9,721       6,214       2,721        -               18,656
11,250      8,028       4,478       1,455            25,211
Local Component
Estimated rate of inflation                26%        18%         15%         12%
Estimated annual disbursements          439,601    515,100    497,312    384,967            1,836,980
Undisbursed balance                   1,397,379    882,279    384,967          -
Price contingency on disbursements        57,148     58,412      55,455      39,493           210,508
Price contingency on undisbursed
balance                            363,319    200,101       85,855      39,493           649,275
Subtotal                   420,467    258,513    141,310                         859,783
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES               431,717    266,541    145,788        40,948           884,994
/a  Technícal assistance.                                                                                            -



ANNEX 4
Page 7
COLOMBIA
Social Services Subproiect
CDV Facilities - Construction Costs
The project will construct 27 Community Developments Centers
each of which will include a Health Center, Family and Child Welfare Center
(CAIP), Primary School, Vocational Training Clnter and Administrative offices.
The base construction cost of Col$4,170 per m  (December 1977) reflects prices
of recent construction contracts for these type of facilities and includes
provision for external site works.
2                COST (December 1977)
Facility               Area m                          Col$
Health Center - A            183                           763,110
Health Center - B            219                           913,230
Health Center - C            264                         1,100,880
CAIP                         750                         3,127,500
Primary School               451                         1,880,670
Training Center - A          240                         1,000,800
Training Center - B          450                         1,876,500
Administration               262                         1,050,840



A>NEX 4
Pago 8
o   o  o  o   o  ca  o   o  o   ca  o  o  o   o   0  0   0   0  0  0   0   0  O   O  O   O   O   O0%OLfl4O  0%
-         -  >0  0.  0%>0>0C0%0%>0   0%'  .4  0>  0>  .4  .4  .4  0%  >0  0%  0%  .0  >0  .4  >1  0%  0>  0%  40%t0%4O   0%
0%r..0%0%>.r-r-.  0%  .40%e-0%0%    ,-.e-e-   «0  0%  0%  e-  4-  0%  r-.  0%  ra  0%  0%  0%0%0%0%1.aO  ca
04.0    0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  .0  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  >0  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  .44e-e-0%O   .4
E.00%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%.40%0%    .4  0  0%  0%  0%  0%  -0  .0  0%  .0  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%0%000%0   0%
0%  -  0   0   -  -  -   0  0%  0   0%  0  0   0%  0%  0%  0   0%  0  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  O  0   0  0%0%0%0%.0>0  0%
>-    4.    0%    0%    4-    e-    e-    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0>    '    >00%0%0%>00%  0%
0                                                                                                                  0
0                                                                                                                  40
4> .4
o    a  o  a  ca  a  o  a   o  o   a   a  O  .4  0  0  0   0   0  0%  0%  0%  0%  0   0  0   0   O   04,00
1..  .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    .4    -0    .4    .4  4040%>
4.>  0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%  0%4S.4
-0 0%
o 0 0 0 0 O O 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O 0 e 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 O >004>0
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0*%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%T* 0.0>
o 0 0 0 0 O 0 0 0% 0 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 0 0 0 0 0 0 0% O 0% 0 0 00044..>
0-40000
1 0%1.0%00
.0%0
0%  44.>    <
40O0%     40
.04>0%
0   0  0  0  0  0  0   0  0   0   0   0  0   0   0  0   e   O  0   0  0  0  0   0  0   0   01  0   4>40
0%  ca    0  o  O  a   o  o   o   o   0  0   0   0  0  0   0  0   O  0  0  0   0  0   0   01  01.0.4
40caO0%0%ca00%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%>00%0%0%0%0%0%J>'' 8
4.--
0     0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  .0  0%  0%  >0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%     >  0%     .04  
e-  e-e-  e-  e-e-  e-  e-  e-  e-  e-e-e-   e-e-e-   e-e-e-   e-e-e-   e-e-  e-  1   
0% 0% 01. 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% >  >>         ' 

4-
0                    ca      o  o                o  o  o   ca  0  0   o   o  e   0   0  0   0   0  0  0   0  0   0   0  0
4-0                    e-  e- e-                   e-e-e-.e-e-e-r-e-e- 4- e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-->
C0              -     0%      0%  0%              0%    0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%    .4  0%  0%  0%  .4  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  .4
0%  40               0    0        0  0                0  0   0   0   0  0   0   0  0  0   0  0   0   0  0  O   0  0   0   0  0%
0>0              .0    0%      0%    0%            0%    0%    0%  0%    0%    0%  0%    0%    0%  0%    0%    0%    0%  0%    0%    0%  0%    0%    0%  0%    0%
o  404->             4>    0%     0%   0%              0%    0%  0%  0%  0%    0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  >0

ca 0%> 4000
0>   4040             0
ca   4-                    0%  ca  ca  ca  ca  ca  ca  ca  ca  ca  0   0  ca  ca  ca  0   ca  O  0  0%  0   0  00    O                O
.4ca            04.    ca  ca  0   0  o  ca  ca  o  o  o   o  O  ca  o   O  ca  ca  ca  ca  o   o  o  '                   O        ca
4 0%.->             4000%0%0000%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0%0000%0%0%0%  0%  0%
0 >0» .0 - ------
.0  00              e-U    e-      1-.             e-  e-e-e-e-e-e-r-,>-4-   e-  e-e-O-.  O-e-O-.  e-  e   e-                         >0
1.  0<             ca             >0  e  >0  >0  >4  >0>4>0>0>0>04.>   >0  >0>0>0>0>0>0>0>0>0>0   >0
.04.        400%   0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  -  0%  >0  0%  0%r.J>0>00%ca0%0400.Jca   0%  0%
ca  ca  0   0   0  0   0  0   0   0   0  0   0  0  0   0   0  0   0  0  0  0   0  0  0   01
0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0%  0   0%  0%  0%  0%  0%0%0%0%.40%0%0%ca0%ca   0%  0%  0%I 0%
4>0%-1 -
01.         0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0% 0 0% 0 O0%0%0%00%O0%0%0%0%0%  0 0 0 
404.4-- - -   - -                                                                                       - -
1
.0>
00     .4  0%  >0  0%  e-  0  0%  0  0   0   0  .4  >0  0%  0%  >0  0   0%  >0  ca  .4  0%  0   -  0%  0   0
-  e-0%0%0%ca0%e- 0 00%>00e--0%.>0>0cae-0%e->0 0 0
4.e-  0% .4 0 0% .4 0 0% 0% 0% - 0% 0% 0% >4 .4 0 .4 .0O  O
o
>0  0>..>0caca                                             1.      4                  a
0     >0  >0         -   1.  0       0%      1.      0       .0      0
O   0   4.     0               4>  4>      0   0
0   0  0                   4   ..>  0  ca      00     >4  ....  O      g              .0  0       40  .0
1.  1.  0>  0  0   0   0   40  1.  .0  0   0   0   0   4   1.  0%  4.  0              0   0            4>
0  0   0   4   4.  0>    '0  0  4>  0  0   4.  0   0%  0   0   >0  0   0   0
4>  4>  0  0   4   0   4   ..>  ..  0%  0  0   4>  .0  1.  4.  -   40  0  .0   0  0       ca  4.  0   .0
o   4>    *0    s  0  0       .0                     4.   0  -    0   4.  1.     0   0   4   .4>  0   o
1.  1.4.4>1.4>1.     -   1.  .0   8  .0               0  0  0  .0   0  0  40  0  0  0   0>  0  .4
4.    4.    >4>    0  0  0  0  0  4.    40  0  E>    40  0  40    40  4.    O  0%    E>    E>    4.    0  40    0%  0  40



ANNEX 4
Page 9
COLOMBIA
Social Services Subprolect
Primary Education
Unit costs for constructing and repairing classrooms, administra-
tive blocks and sanitary units outside of the CDV complex, are estimated to
be less than the CDV construction. This is because all of these will be ex-
tensions to existing buildings in which site works and infrastructure already
exists. Cost of equipment is based on the standard schedules and recent
prices from INES, the Institute for School Construction.



COST ESTIMATES                         ANNEX 4
Page 10
Social Services Subproject
Primary Education
Number    Unit Cost          Total
(Col$ '000)    (Col$ '000)
Construction
Construction of new classrooms
outside CDV                            165         198             32,760
Repair or replace classrooms             86           81             7,015
Construction of administrative
blocks                                  61         199             12,139
Construction of sanitary units          143         132             18,876
Construction of playing fields           54         213             11,502
Subtotal                                                   82,292
Equipment
Equipment for CDV School.s               23         244              5,612
Equipment for other classrooms          165           40             6,600
Equipment for administra.tive
blocks                                  91           42             3,822
Equipment for Community library          27         427             11,540
Teaching materíals (classes)            366           13             4,758
Equipment for playing fields             81           63             5,103
Subtotal                                                   37,424
Training
60-hour courses la                       77          16              1,232
120-hour courses -                          6        530              3,180
Subtotal                                                    4,412
Total                                         124,128
Physical Contingencies         18,619
142,747
/a Module for 90 teachers.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
COST ESTIMATES
Social Services Subproject
Health
Investment Cost of an Urban MAC Unit
No.             Unit Cost      Cost per MAC
(CoI$)          (Col$)
Construction:  Health Center          1              1,100,880        275,220
Equipment:     Health Center          1                488,000        122,000
Equipment:      Promotoras            4                  4,170         16,680
Auxiliares            3                  3,610         10,830
Dental Unit           1                200,628        100,314
Training:      Promotoras             4                  2,224          8,896
Auxiliares            3                  7,645         22,935
556,875
Investment Cost of Health Component                   (Col$ '000)   (Col$ '000)
Equipment for Health Centers         27                    448         13,176
Equipment for Dental Units           27                    201          5,427
Equipment for Paraprofessionals
Promotoras                       250                  4,170          1,043
Auxiliares                       125                  3,610            451
Training for Paraprofessionals
Promotoras                       250                  2,224            556
Auxiliares                       150                  7,645            956
Construction outside of CDV
complex                                                                 2,134
Subtotal                                                               23,743
Physical Contingencies                                                  3,561
Total                                                                  27,304
Per capita  cost (based on a coverage of 8,000 per MAC)                    70



ANNEX 4
COST ESTIMATES                            Page 12
Social Services Subproject
Family artd Child Welfare (CAIP)
(Col$)
Investment Cost of a CAIP arLd its Home Day Care Units
Construction:  CAIP                                        1,668,000
Equipment  :  CAIP                                          376,000
Training:      CAIP staff                                   153,700
Loans for renovatíon of Home Day Care Units
10 @ Co1$55,600 (average) each              550,000
Equipment for Units
10 @ Col$16,700 each                        160,700
Training of house mothers
10 @ Col$3,100 each                          31,000
2,939,400
Investment Cost of Family and Child Welfare Component
CAIPS
Equipment for CAIPs                                       (Col$ '000)
24 @ Col$376 each                              9,024
Training of CAIP staff
24 @ Coi$153,700 per team                      3,689
Subtotal               12,713
Home Day Care Uníts
Loans for renovation of homes
310 @ Col$55,600 (average) each               17,236
Equipment for Units
310 @ Col$16,700 each                          5,177
Training of house mothers
310 @ Col$3,100 each                              961
Subtotal           23,374
Total              36,087
Physical contingencies   5,413
TOTAL              41.500



ANNEX 4
Page 13
COST ESTIMATES
Employment and Productivity Subproject
Vocational Training and Technical Assistance (SENA)
This component will fund both mobile and fixed equipment, vehicles,
consumable materíals and initial expenses of providing the training and tech-
nical assistance, ¡.e. salaries of instructors and fees for business and pro-
fessional advisers. Estimates are based on equipment lists, materials sche-
dules and manhour inputs for SENA's most common courses and TA programs.



TABLE 4
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
COST ESTIMATES
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY SUBPROJECT
URBAN MOBILE TRAINING PROGRAM--SENA
Year 1                 Year 2                   Year 3                 Year 4                          Total
No.        Cost        No.         Cost        No.        Cost         No.        Cost                No.         Cost
(Col$'000)             (Col$'000)             (Col$'000)              (Col$'000)                     (Col$'000)
INITIAL OPERATING COSTS
1. Costs of Personnel
Technical Instructors                18        3,327        45         8,318         75        13,862       81        14,971                         40,478
Social Development Instructors        6         1,210       15         3,025         25        5,042        27         5,445                         14,722
Consulting Professionals /a           5           841       13         2,187         16        2,691        16         2,691                          8,410
Business Specialists Lb               5           421       13         1,095         16         1,347       16         1,347                          4,210
Supervisors /c                        5           121       13           315         16           387       16           387                          1,210
Superintendent / c                    5          416        13         1.082         16         1.331       16         1.331                          4.160
Subtotal                              6,336                 16,022                   24,660                 26,172                          73,190
2. Consumable Materials
Subtotal                                914                  2,237                    3,568                  3,568                          10,287
FIXED INVESTMENT
3. Equipment                                       5,9S8                   7,937                    7,937                  1,292                         23,124
4. Vehicles                                          -            4        1.819          6         2.729        4         1.819                14         6.367
Subtotal                              5,958                  9,756                   10,666                   3,111                         29,491
TOTAL                                13,208                 28,015                   38,894                 32,851                         112,968
Physical Contingencies                              1,981                  4,202                    5,834                  4,928                          16,945
GRAND TOTAL                          15,189                  32,217                  44,728                  37,779                        129,913
/a  One consulting professional is required for 4 days per week per CDV.
7b  One consulting industrialist is required for 2 days per week per CDV.                                                                                                2
/c  10% & 25% respectively of these are required per month per CDV.                                                                                                   X t



ANNEX 4
Page 15
COST ESTIMATES
Physical and Environmental Improvement Subproject
Housing Component
Regularization of Land and Tenure
The average cost of the technical, administrative and legal ser-
vices for regularizing an illegal area and processing titles for the resí-
dents which works out at Col$1,540.   This price which is based on ICT recent
experience, was used as the basis for estimating.
Housing Improvement Loans
An average loan based on providing a sanitary core and one per-
manent room or its equivalent in improvement was used as the basis for es-
timating.
(Col$)
Construction of a sanitary core including WC, shower =         3,300
Domestic connection to public services                  =      2,200
Construction of one room in permanent materials         =    11,000
16,000
Labor                                                          7,000
23,500
Average loan--70% of construction cost                  =    16,500



TABLE 5
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
COST ESTIMATES
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT SUBPROJECT
NEW HOUSING COSTS
(Col$)
Minimum Unit
Area     Serviced       Sanitary Core Unit         by Resident    by Resident
Items                       m2         Lot         by Resident  by ICT        (Serviced Lot) (Minimum Unit)   by ICT
Costs Per Lot
Raw land                                64        4,608           4,608      4,608           4,608          4,608           4,608
Urbanization-                                    11,752          11,752    11,752           11,752          11,752         11,752
Sanitary core--materials  '            137                       12,292    12,292           12,292         12,292          12,292
--labor                                                        4,507                          4,507           4,507
Multiple-use space--materials -          16                                                 10,956          10,956         10,956
--labor                                                                                                 4,017
ICT's overheads & technical
assistance (107.)                               1,636           2,865      3,316           3,961          4,412          4,813
Total Cost                       17,996          31,517    36,475           43,569         48,527          52,945
Cash Deposit                                      1,800           1,800      3,648          -1,800           3,648          5,295
Loan                                             16,196          29,717    32,827           41,769         44,879          47,650
Minimum income (C$ per annum)                     6,478          11,886    13,130           16,707          17,951         19,059
(US$ per annum)                     180             330        364             464            499             529
% of unita                                         35%              35%       15%              5%             5%             5%
Average loan = C$27,500 (Dec.'76 prices)
la  Water, electricity, sewerage, drainage and acceso routes.
/b  Includes W.C., shower, kitchen and party walla.                                                                                            Id
lc  A subdivisible shelter suitable for immediate occupancy.                                                                                   G 
/d  The Bank's relative poverty ceiling for Colombia is US$154 per capita which works out at a family income of                                xD
C$33,264 approximately.  (C$36 = US$1)
The mínimum wage in Colombia is currently C$18,000/annum.



TABLE 6
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
COST ESTIMATES
PHYSICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVtMENT SUBPROJECT
HOUSING COMPONENT--ICT
Base
Cost                                                                     Total
(Dec.1976)                                                  Total            Cost
Cn1$          1978      1979     1980      1981      Benefíciarles    Col$ '000
Regularization of Land and Tenure
Number of plots                                         2,800   10,015   11,932    4,480            29,627
Average cost per plot (Col$)               1,540        2,141    2,780    3,753    4,448
Total Cost (Col$'000)                                 5,994   27,842   44,780   21,706                           100,322
Housing Improvemente
Number of Loans                                            99    1,762    6,762    9,809            18,432
Average Loan (Col$)                       16,500       22,935   31,970   40,310   47,260
Total Cost (Col$'000)                                 2,271   56,331  272,576. 463,573                            794,751
New Housíng
Number of Units                                           440    1,974    3,249    1,618             7,281
Average Loan (Col$)                       27,500       38,225   52,820   66,720   79,230
Total Cost (Col$'000)                                16819   104,267  2167    128,194                            466,053
Total beneficiaries (families)                            3,339   13,751   21,943   16,307            55,340
Total coset of component (Col$'000)                      25,084  188,440  534,129  613,473                          1,270,836
_ 14



TABLE 7
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT COST ESTIMATES
Cost of            Water                      Water
Dwellings       House       Distribution Network       Distribution Masns        Other Works
Population   No. of         7       Without    Connections   Length (m)    Cost            Length (m)   Cost        Zone        City
of Zone   Dwellings   Serviced   Service        (Col$'000)                 (Co1$OOO)                 (Col$'O0O)
Armenia                 18,290         1,945      90         194          289.8         2,500       1,494.2                                                       1,784.0
,Pasto                   22,258         1,009      33      2,000                                                                                                  20,620.7
Bucaramanga             26,333         2,574      60      1,030        1,539.1          8,000      4,183.9         2,500      2,525.2             16,000.0 La  24,248.2
Ibague                  17,495         2,187     45       1,196        1,965.7         11,960       2,858.5                                                       4,824.2
Tulua                   11,140         1,377      11      1,222        2,498.4          6,240       2,659.8        3,820      8,021.1                            13,179.3
Manizales                4,712         1,474      81         284         423.2          1,867         434.2                                                         857.4
Neiva                   34,760         4,681       9      4,262        6,464.0         23,540     16,718.0                                8,370.0 Lb             31,552.0
Sincelejo               28,154         4,022      52      1,920        3,084.8         19,300      6,200.0                                1,424.3 LC             10,710.4
Villavicencio           23,709         4,063      82         740       1,105.7          8,400       1,757.2        4,600      3,114.4
Monteria                20,127         3,500       0      3,500         7,844.7        24,900       8,900.0                               7,204.8 Ld             23,949.5
Quibdo                  20,049         3,233      33      2,182        4,890.6         10,250      4,901.0         3,876      4,175.6       896.5 Le             14,863.7
Tumaco                  38,247         5,622      46      3,036        6,804.9          6,000       3,675.9        1,000        896.5                            11,377.3
Barrancabermeja         14,760         2,460      10      2,214                                                                                                  27,763.2
Sabanalarga             19,000         2,500      60      1,000        1,643.9          8,835       2,487.8                              24,714.9 Lf             28,846.6
Turbo                   13,218         2,137      51      1,052         2,357.9         5,000       2,614.9                                                       4,972.8
Pereira                 47,962         5,406      72      1,490        3,500.0          8,135       6,615.0                                                      10,115.0
Cartago                 16,991         2,598      41      1,534         3,589.5         4,600       1,804.2        2,500      3,719.2    2,732.7                 11,845.6
Girardot                20,313         2,699      85        418           854.4         8,850       3,900.0                               1,667.6                 6,847.2
Cucuta                 135,312        21,702      65       7,630      17,718.3         45,050      21,697.0                                                      31,415.3
San Andres              11,600         4,245      28      3,064                                                                                                  14,942.5
Valedupar                                                                                                                                                             0.0
Riohacha                                                                                                                                                              0.0
Santa Marta                                                                                                                                                            0.0
TOTAL         544,430        79,434      50      39,968                                                                                                 308,691.9
Unallocated Funde
for Sourcea and
Treafment Facilities
Improvement                                                                                                                                                     54,008.1
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                                                                             362,700.0
La Transmiseion pipeline.
Lb Pumping station and transmiasion pipeline.
/I Transmission pipeline 8 inch.
/d  Transmiasion pipeline 12/8 inch.
/e  Transmiasion pipeline 10 inch.
7f  Transmission pipeline  16 inch.                                                                                                                                             I
/g  1900 metera 6 inch pipeline.
/h Renewal of 1,547 house connectiona.



ANNEX 4
TABLE 8                             Page 19
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
COST ESTIMATES
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND EVALUATION
Item                 Year 1     Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Total
Investment
Equipment                   3,990       6,585       8,150        1,463      20,188
Traíning                       600      1,200       1,750        1,450       5,000
Materials                      300        750       1,250        1,350       3,650
Total             4,890       8,535     11,150        4,263      28,838
Initial Operating Costs
Community promotion         5,801       8,436      11,177        7,665     33,079
CDV--administration        12,975      31,411      32,121       12,619     89,126
General costs               4,061       4,740       4,755        1,992      15,548
Total            22,837     44,587      48,053       22,276    137,753
Evaluation
Director & Research
Assistants                    759      1,173       1,349        1,551      4,832
Studies and fees               863        992       1,141        1,312       4,308
Overheads & reports            250        287         330          381       1,248
Travel & per diem              414        720         828          952       2,914
Total             2,285       3,172      3,648        4,196      13,301
30,012     56,294      62,851       30,735    179,892
Physical Contingencies                                                  26,984
Total                                                        206,876



TABLE 9
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA                            Page 20
Urban Development Project
FINANCING PLAN
Particí-
]L978-81                National       pating
(in mi-llions)    IBRD       Budget       Agencies
US$   Col$   Col$   %    Col$   $    Col$   %
APPLICATION OF FVINDS
Social Services
Land                          0.3      16     -    -       16  100      -    -
Community Development
Centers                     8.2    437   175    40    262   60        -    -
Education--Equipment          3.8    199    80    40    119   60        -    -
--Training          0.1       7      4    50       3   50      -    -
Health   --Equipment          0.6      37    15    40      22   60      -    -
--Training          0.1       2      1    50       1   50     -    -
Famlly & Child Welfare        1.1      60     -    -       -    -       60  100
14.2    758   275            423           60
Employment & Productivity
Vocational Training
-- Equipment                1.2     64    26    40       -    -       38   60
-- Training                 2.3    124    62    50       -    -       62   50
Small Enterprises Credits   4.0    209   105    50                     104   50
Savings & Loans Co-ops        0.2      10     -    -       10  100      -    -
Technical Assistance          0.1       5     -    -       -    -        5  100
7.8    412   193             10          209
Physical & Environmental
Land regularization &
tenure                     1.7     91      -    -       -    -       91  100
Home improvement loans       13.1    702   351    50       -    -      351   50
New housing (S&S)             8.7    462   231    50       -    -      231   50
Water supply & sewerage    12.4    662   265    40    397   60          -    -
35.9  1,917   847            397          673
Project Management &
Evaluation                     4.1    216      -    -      216  100      -    -
TOTAL           62.0  3,303 1,315    40  1,046   32    942   18
SOURCE OF FUNDS
National Government          19.5  1,046      -    -   1,046   32       -    -
Resources of participating
agencies                                                             673   20
ICT                     12.6    673       -    -       -    -     104    3
SENA                      2.0    105      -    -       -    -     105    3
ICBF                     1.1      60      -    -      -    -        60    2
Banco Popular                 2.0    104      -    -       -    -       -    -
IBRD loan                    24.8  1,315 1,315    40
TOTAL           62.0  3,303 1,315    40  1,046   32    942   28



TABLE 10
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY
(Col$ '000)
Procurement Categories
1              II          III          IV           y           VI
Non-        Construction      Equipment                                            Un-
Total     reimbursable      Eng. & Spn.    & Materials  Training    SSI Loans   Housing   allocated
Social Services
Land                                  16,200          16,200
Community Development Centers        278,526            -            278,526
Education                            142,747            -             94,635          43,038         5,074
Health                                27,304            -               2,454         23,111         1,739
Family and Child Welfare              41,500          41,500
Employment and Productivity
Vocational Training                  129,913            -                             44,536        85,377
SSI Loans                            208,800            -                                                      208,800
Savings & Loana Co-ops                10,000          10,000
Technical Assistance                   3,634           3,634
Physical and Environrental
Land Regularization & Tenure          63,430          63,430
Housing Improvement Loans            486,147            -                                                                  486,147
New Housing (sites & services)       320,062            -                                                                  320,062
Water Supply & Sewerage              422,650            -             422,650
Project Management & Evaluation       206,876         206,876
Engineering & Supervision              60,187            -             60,187
Unallocated                           884,994            -                                                                              884,994
Total Cost (Col$'000)         3,302,970         341,640          858,452         110,685        92,190    208,800    806,209    884,994
(US$ millions)       62              64               16.1             2.1           1.7         4.0        15.1        16.6
Bank Disbursement (%)                  40%              07              40%             40%          50°L        507         50%           -
(US$ million)              24.8             0.00             6.4             0.80          0.90         2.00      8.00        6.70          c 



ANNEX 4
TABLE 11                                Page 22
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ míllions)
Quarter               Estimated Disbursement
Quarter          Ending              Quarter           Cumulative
1         Sept. 30, 1978           1.60                1.60
2        Dec. 31, 1978             2.44                4.04
3        March 31, 1979            1.94                5.98
4        June 30, 1979             1.05                7.03
5         Sept. 30, 1979           1.45                8.48
6        Dec. 31, 1979             2.21               10.69
7        March 31, 1980            1.75               12.44
8        June 30, 1980             1.01               13.45
9         Sept. 30, 1980           1.47               14.92
10         Dec. 31, 1980            2.23               17.15
11        March 31, 1981            1.77               18.92
12         June 30, 1981              .80              19.72
13         Sept. 30, 1981           1.15               20.87
14         Dec. 31, 1981             1.64              22.51
15        March 31, 1982            1.39               23.90
16         June 30, 1982            0.90               24.80



ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Introduction
1.        The Program for the Integration and Participation of Communities
(IPC) requires the coordination and in some instances the integration of
the activities of some nine entities in an interrelated series of operatíons.
2.        The proposals for project management have to be seen within the
context of the structure of the Colombian Government administration which
is characterized by a large number of semi-autonomous and centralized agen-
cies.  The administrative reform of 1968 gave the Ministries greater control
over the semi-autonomous agencies under their jurisdiction and gave them the
responsibility for policy, planning and coordination. The present government
has further consolidated the powers of the Ministries but has also intro-
duced a degree of decentralization within existing centralized agencies.
3.        The Organization Structure for IPC as agreed by the National Eco-
nomic and Social Council (CONPES) has been conceived as having three levels
of operation, the National, Local and Community. At each level a coordinat-
ing committee and a management unit would be established.
4.        At the national level a National Council for the IPC Program rep-
resenting all the participating entities has been created by the President.
The Secretariat for Popular Integration (SIP) will act as the Executive
Secretariat of the National Council, with responsibility for the general man-
agement of the program in all its stages.  SIP will have a local coordinator
in each city included in the program.
5.        Within each city participating in the program a local Coordinating
Committee will be set up on which will sit the local heads of all the parti-
cipating entities, and a community representative from each project area.
The local SIP coordinator will provide management at this level.
6.        Each project area will have a Neighborhood Development Center (CDV)
which will be coordinated by a CDV Management Committee. Representatives
of those entities providing services in the area and three community repre-
sentatives will constitute this committee.  Each CDV will have a full-time
manager appointed by SIP. In the cities with only one CDV, the local SIP
Coordinator will manage the CDV.
7.        The general management of the project has been structured into
two basic categories:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(í) Programming and Budgeting; and
(ii) Project Execution
8.        The system of programming and budgeting would be the main tool for
coordinating the program at all levels. Budget proposals would be prepared by
the local coordinators, in consultation with the local coordinating committees
and finally submitted to the National Council through SIP for approval.
9.        Execution of the various components of the project would be the re-
sponsibility of the participating agencies under agreements to be entered
into between the agencies and the Office of the Presidency. Coordination
would be the function of SIP. SIP, through its local coordinators together
with the executing agencies would be responsible for supervising and moni-
toring progress in project execution. The evaluation of the program in
meeting its overall objectives will be the responsibility of a special joint
unit set up by the National Planning Department (DNP) and SIP. The data
which will be collected by the local coordinators and the participating agen-
cies will be processed by the evaluation unit.
10.       Disbursements would be processed and approved by the Executive
Secretariat, which would keep special accounts for IPC funds. All the parti-
cipating agencies would have in its budget special headings for the IPC pro-
gram, which would specify the amounts appropriated for each activity broken
down by municipality.
The National Council and the Executive Secretariat
11.       The Council has been set up by a decree of the President.  Its mem-
bership include the Ministers and Directors of participating agencies or
their delegates. The Council's main functions are to approve the annual pro-
gram and budget, monitor thei program's development and formulate and recommend
any specific activities or p,rograms to be carried out by the executing agen-
cies.
12.       The SIP in the President's Office has been delegated as Executive
Secretariat responsible for the general management of the program. Besides
its function as Secretariat to the National Council, it is responsible for
the following:
(a) manage and coordinate the execution of the program through
its local coordinators;
(b) prepare general and annual plans and budgets for IPC on the
basis of proposals by the local committees, present these
to the National Council and upon approval, submit them
through DNP to the Minister of Finance for inclusion in
the national budget;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c) to be the main point of contact with external lenders for
IPC and be responsible for the preparation of progress
reports and disbursement applications;
(d) to monitor implementation in terms of physical targets and
budget execution in cooperation with the executing agencies;
(e) to evaluate the program and its components and report to the
National Council and the National Economic and Social Coun-
cil (CONPES);
(f) prepare contracts between the Office of the Presidency and
the executing agencies;
(g) approve the rules of the local coordinating committees;
(h) promote, monitor and maintain community participation in the
execution of the programs.
13.       It has been recommended that two technical working groups be set
up as subcommittees of the National Council. One group, which would have
representatives from CFP, SENA and SIP would coordinate the Employment and
Productivity component and be chaired by SIP. The other group which would
coordinate the Area Improvement Plan would have representatives from ICT,
INSFOPAL, and SIP. ICT would chair this group. These groups would draw up
guidelines for and review all subprograms under their respective components
before they are submitted to the National Council for approval.
14.       DNP has been delegated to provide SIP with assistance in carry-
ing out its functions, specifically the preparation of the budgets, moni-
toring of budgetary execution, and evaluation of the program.
Popular Integration Secretariat (SIP)
15.       SIP was established in 1975 as an office within the Administrative
Department of the Presidency. Its role, envisaged in the broadest terms,
was to promote and coordinate programs directed at the social and economic
integration of the institutionally unprotected population into the national
community. It was directed:
(a) to improve those actions for which the State was respon-
sible;
(b) involve the private sector in these programs;
(c) stimulate the participation of the communities;
(d) coordinate and integrate the various actions directed
at the poorest groups.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
16.       SIP's role is seen as mainly coordination rather than direct im-
plementation and its staffing has reflected this. In order to effectively
manage this program, it was agreed that an operational unit should be
establíshed with executive responsibility for this program. This unit,
to be headed by a subdirector, would have two divisions: (i) administra-
tive and financial; (ii) operational. Chart 17675 shows the proposed admini-
strative structure for the IPC program. The staff of the unit would number
60 in 1977/1978 increasing to 84 in 1980 which would include a local coordi-
nator in each municipality and a community promoter in each area included
in the IPC program.
17.       SIP has received six man-years of technical assistance from the
Dutch Government specifically for this project. Two experts, one in pro-
gramming and management and another for the Employment and Productivity
Units are already working with SIP, and are providing valuable support to
the subdirector in getting the program underway.
18.       SIP's project management costs are estimated at Col$77 million
for the period 1977 to 1981, approximately 2% of total project costs. These
might appear to be somewhat high, but include resources for detail prepara-
tion of subprojects in the remaining 18 cities. These costs will be covered
entirely by the national government.
The Local Coordinating Committee and the SIP Local Coordinator
19.       In each municipality in which the program is planned for execu-
tion, a local coordinating committee will be convened.  These comnittees
would have as members, the heacls of all participating agencies, the head
of the municipal planning offi¡e, and a community representative from each
CDV Management Committee in the city. The local SIP coordinator will pre-
side over the committee. The local committee's funetions would be to:
(a) coordinate the integration of the services for the execu-
tion of the program;
(b)  identify problems and constraints and report them to the
Executive Secretariat;
(c) monitor the implementation of the executing agencies' sub-
projects;
(d) study the financial and technical needs of the program and
report to the Executive Secretariat;
(e)  solicit the support of participating agencies for execu-
tion of the program.
This committee will also draw up its own rules which will be subject to the
approval of the Executive Secreitariat. In each of the cities included in
the program, SIP will appoint a full-time coordinator whose responsibilities
will be:



ANNEX 5
Page 5
(a) to set up effective mechanisms for liaison between the agencies
and between the communities and the agencies;
(b) to prepare the annual program and budget in consultation with
the Coordinating Committee and submit these to the Executive
Secretariat;
(c) to monitor the execution of the program and to report to the
Coordinating Committee and the Executive Secretariat on the
progress of the program;
(d) to promote and maintain community participatíon in the program.
The CDV Management Committee and the CDV ManaRer
20.       Each project area will have a CDV (Annex 1).  A CDV management
committee will coordinate the services being delivered through its CDV.
These committees which will include representatives of those agencies pro-
viding services through the CDV, and three representatives of the commu-
nity, will be chaired by the manager of the CDV. The functions of the CDV
Committee would be:
(a) to coordinate the services being delivered in their CDV;
(b) maintain the CDV facilities with community support;
(c) report to the local committee on the CDV activities;
(d)  promote community projects and participation;
(e) attend to the community's concerns and channel these
with observations and recommendations to the local council;
(f) assign the community representative to the local council;
(g) prepare its own rules which will be subject to approval by
the Executive Secretariat.
21.       In the first years of the program in those cities with only one
CDV, the SIP local coordinator will be the manager of the CDV.  His respon-
sibility will be to:
(a) prepare the budgets for the CDV;
(b) provide the Executive Secretariat with detailed periodic
reports on the execution of the program;
(c) to coordinate the programs' activities in the project
area and to liaise with the operational staff of the
executing agencies in the field;



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(d) to promote and majintain community participation in the
program and to identify and develop community groups
in the area.
22.       The initial centrailized direction in this organization system is
very pronounced, however, it is felt that the Departments would not object
to this as the program was a national one and is being financed entirely
by the Central Government. This impression was confirmed in those Depart-
ments visited by the missíon.
23.       The community participation in the management of the program is
initially limited to a consultative relationship. The justification for
this is that participation cannot be desigued and decreed. The program,
however, has been designed to encourage increased participation and with
the promotional efforts planned it is hoped that the level and degree of
participation will increase, particularly at the CDV level. It is envisaged
that the CDV can be eventually managed by a community coop, but this will
have to be a gradual process. Community representation in the first in-
stance will be through non-elected volunteer representatives. This is in
keeping with the present government's serious objections to having elected
community organizations which are quickly absorbed by the political struc-
ture and develop ínto simply pressure groups.
Programming and Budgeting
24.       The budget will be the main tool for coordinating the activities
of the program. Each executing agency would have special headings for IPC
in its budget. These would specify the amounts appropriated for each acti-
vity by municipalíty and area. The appropriations could only be made with
approval of the National Councíl, ensuring that IPC funds would only be
used according to the approved program.
25.       The annual budget would be prepared as follows:
(a)  In Jan/Feb. each year CONPES determines IPC's quota in the
national budget and a quota for each municipality; SIP
reviews these and informs the local coordinator and the
participating agencies of the quotas.
(b) the local coordinator in consultation with the local com-
mittee will determine their physical targets and will
estimate the budgetary appropriations needed to meet these.
The budget request is sent to SIP.
(c) SIP will reconcile the budget requests with the quota
and forward the modified request to DNP and the Na-
tional Council; this would take place about March/April
each year;
(d) after approval by the Council, the requests are included
in the national budget for presentation to Congress in
July each year;



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(e)  after approval by Congress, usually before Dec., the quotas
are sent to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in each
agency's budget. Disbursement would then follow normal
Ministry of Finance procedures.
26.       Monthly budgets would be prepared two months in advance and would
form the basis of payment orders submitted to the Ministry of Finance by SIP.
Disbursement Procedures
27.       When the Ministry of Finance has received the approval of CONPES
to the IPC budget for the following financial year, this would be passed
to the Treasury as authority to disburse funds from the national budget.
28.       The Treasury would make payments from the national budget direct
to each participating agency concerned and would appoint an official with
specific responsibility for such transfers. These payments would be made
strictly  in accorciance with the approved IPC budget and the Ministry of
Finance would not be allowed to change these allocations without reference
to the National Council. SIP would check that funds had been provided by
the Ministry of Finance to the executing agency concerned and the agency
had made them available for their intended purpose under the IPC and have
powers of enforcement. Bank funds would be transferred by the Treasury,
against claims submitted by SIP. These claims which would be prepared by
the participating agencies, would be supported by evidence of expenditure
made under the project in accordance with procedures set out in the opera-
tional agreement (para. 29), taking into account the Bank's procurement and
disbursement requirements.
Accounts and Auditing
29.       Each executing agency would be required to keep separate accounts
of its IPC operations. These would be subject to annual audit by the Con-
troller General's (CG) officers.  These officers are stationed in the finance
department of each executing agency. SIP would also keep separate accounts
in subsidiary ledgers for project management operations and this would also
be subject to CG audit. These accounts and audits should make it possible
for comprehensive project accounts to be prepared on a uníform basis.
Execution
Operational Agreements
30.       The Admínistratíve Office of the Presidency will enter into formal
administrative agreements with each particípating agency. These agreements
will cover the responsibílities of the executing agency which would be as
follows:
(i) to perform its role in the approved IPC program with the
funds allocated for this purpose;



ANNEX 5
Page 8
(ii)  to specify the actions involved, e.g. for Ministry of Health
to set up a specified number of MACs in specific locations;
for SENA to provide specific training programs and technical
assistance in project areas;
(iii)  to provide staff in number and quality as approved for the
program;
(iv)  to comply with procurement procedures agreed between the
Borrower and external lenders;
(v)  to submit information to SIP in accordance with the monitor-
ing and evaluation system of the program;
(vi)  to collaborate wiLh the inspection staff of SIP; and
(vii)  to comply wíth reLmbursement procedures laid down by SIP.
The agreements would also:
(a)  cover the four-year period of the project;
(b)  refer specifically to operation in the project area or
dírectly related to the project;
(c)  provide for detaí]Ls of approved annual programs to be
supplied each year, which would then be regarded as part
of the agreement;
(d)  make provision for the agreement of minor modifications
in these annual programs;
(e)  provide for the agencies to be reimbursed for a speci-
fied proportion ofi their approved expenditure under
IPC in accordance with procedures that comply with the
requirements of external lenders in respect of external
funds.
These agreements would constitute operational agreements which would re-
quire prior approval by the Bank.
Supervision
31.       Besides having local coordinators in each city, SIP will have
technical staff who will visit the various cities periodícally for inspec-
tion. Besides this SIP would rely on existing supervision procedures of
the executing agencies.
32.       Supervision by the Bank would require a considerable input of
staff time estimated at 75 man-weeks during the first year, reducing grad-
ually thereafter. Supervision missions should visit Colombia in May,when



ANNEX 5
Page 9
the budget for the following year would be finalized and in October, when
an evaluation of the previous year's operations would be available. The
supervision of the Employment and Productívity Component, Sewerage and
Water Supply Component and the Health Component should be very easily
coordinated with supervision of other Bank projects in those sectors. The
Bank's objective during supervision should be to develop the capacity of
the Executive Secretariat and the main executing agencies to supervise the
execution of the subprojects by their regional offices.
Monitoring and Evaluation
33.       Monitoring will be an integral part of project management and
review, and will be the responsibility of the project coordination and
the executing agencies. Progress reports from the participating agencies
and the local coordinators would be sent to the Executive Secretariat as
a basis for monthly physical targets and as an input into progress re-
ports to the National Council. Standardized forms have been developed to
collect and process information on physical and financial progress.
34.       Evaluation will be carried out on a continuous basis by a special
DNP¡SIP unit using data collected by the local coordinators and the agen-
cies and the results of special studies to be undertaken by the Unit or con-
tracted research groups. At first the main objective will be to use early
experience to make improvements in the project. As the project develops
it would be necessary to measure the impact on the quality of life of the
beneficiaries. The evaluation methodology has been worked out with the aid
of a consultant financed by UNICEF and has been reviewed by the Bank. The
main objectives of the studies would be to evaluate:
(a) management effectiveness of the integrated programs;
(b)  intra-family benefit of the education, health, nutrition
and child welfare components; and
(c) effects of the skills improvement and small-scale credit
components on the employment and productivity of adult
workers.
35.       The monitoring and evaluation of the health components of the
DRI, PAN and ZMU projects will be carried out by the Ministry of Health
as one integrated exercise and will be supervised by the Office of Health
Affairs in the Bank.
Risks
36.       The major risks involved in the proposed management system are:
(a) It is very centralized, with strong support at the highest
levels of government but is not unanimously welcomed by
all participating agencies, particularly at the regional
levels of the administration. Support at the local level
is however quite strong.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
(b) SIP is a new agency, relatively inexperienced in management
of a complex multisectoral project. However, with the as-
sistance of DNP and ICT, the technical assistance provided
by the Dutch government, and the power inherent in the
Office of the President, it should perform effectively.
Much will depend on the senior staff recruited by SIP and
the local coordinators.
(c) The proposals for community participation in the overall pro-
gram are not as specific as the mechanism proposed for indi-
vidual components. However, if the consultative mechanism is
fully used from the start and a real dialogue emerges, mean-
ingful participation can be achieved. SIP has been successful
experience in this aspect and is very strongly committed to
it.
(d) The complexities of the proposed project management are re-
flected in its costs which would amount to approximately 2%
of total project costs, and the extent of Bank supervision
required. Both of these inputs will be essential to the
success of the project.
(e) The program requires the provision of quite a large amount
of local funds from the national budget.



TABLE 1
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
RECURRENT COST OF SUBPROJECTS AND AGENCIES PARTICIPATING IN THE IPC PROGRAM
% of Agencies
Expenditure in
1980
Subproject                        Agency       1977     1978      1979      1980    1981    Recurrent   Total
Social Services                                                                                          a/
Community Promotion                   SIP        5,801    8,436    11,177   11,665        -        n.a.-
Education                         Mín. Educ.    9,071   27,617    39,020   51,027         -         .56         .41
Health                            Mín. Health   4,614   19,093    36,355   49,585         -         .34         .2
Child & Family Welfare               ICBF       10,156   27,655    41,556   54,819        -        6.0         5.0
Production and Employment                                                                                a/
UPE                                   SIP         1,147   3,440      5,275    6,422   7,385        n.a.
Trainíng & Technical Assistance    SENA          11,422  15,964    20,922   21,265                 1.3 a/
Co-op Formation                   Super Cóop        136      338       789    1,344                n.a.-
Small Productive Credit               CFP            covered in interest rate
Physical & Environmental Improvement                                                                     a/
Water Supply & Sewerage           INSFOPAL        9,755  18,262    25,194   27,137  27,137         n.a.-
Housing Loans                         ICT            covered in interest rate
Project Management                                                                                       a/
Administration of IPC + CDVs          SIP         7,634  10,037    12,528   13,610  10,000         n.a. í
Monitoring & Evaluation               SIP         1,950   2,286      3,172    3,648   4,196        n.a.-
a/ Not applicable as these costs are initial operating costs of the project which are included
in project investment costs.
(D e
0HTI
1-*n



COLOMBIA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF THE IPC PROGRAM
|Presidency of the Republic
Nationai Counci of the
D.hi..                               P¡ga n tenton  Commu nity                                 5. t.P .
Participation
|   Ministry of Education   |            g        |      Mín,ntry of Health                      Ministry of Oeveloprnet                       Ministry of Labor
LD                   a~~~~~~~ 
Ect,on                                                                                                                                                                                2 l   S   -   - S   A    S L
Departmental                        Lo        cl   o th  
__-~~ -   -   -__--    --    llnig Ofc                                  P rga                                                                                         D
4++~~~~~e1    Loa                                    Lca    Ohes                                                                                                      1DV+
¡     Mayor              ICTa              SEN,A             ICBF           COLCULTURA            Secretary           Secretary      Comnit                                     angrnn
Office           Office             Office        CLE RTES              o~f Educato         of Health       Organization
uan eicapaon
Offce                                 '                                                                                                                                  t   CDV
P|trograms of the                               c,1
|WCDV               |        7675



COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR A ZONE
A.tivity                      Agency                     Year 1                                Year 2                               Vear 3
Actuivty                         Agency--
-__ ___ ___ __ _  1 2  3      4         1        2        3         4        1        2         3        4
1. Promotion of the Community
Surveys                                SIP
Promotion                                                         -        _
Training                                                          -  
2. CDV                                      ICT
Desígn-                                                                                       -
Construction
3. Health                                   Min. Health
Equipment
Training                                                                                                         -_ __                             -     m   m  m _
Initial Operation
4. Education                                ICCE
School Mapping
Construction                                                      -                 -
Equipment
Traíning                               Min. Educ.                        . .                       I   _
5. Family Child Welfare (CAIPI
Equipment                             ICBF
Training
6. Production & Employment (UPE)
Surveys                                SENA
Training
Technical Assistance                   UPE
Loans                                  CFP                                                   I _ .
Set up Savings & Loan
Pre-Coop.                           UPE
7. Housing Improvement                                                                                                                           i i|
Arca Plan                              ICT
Construct New Houses
Home Loans                                                                 -         -        -                           -
8. Public Utilities
Studies & Designs                      INSFOPAL
Construction                           Empresas
9. Project Management
CDV Management                         SIP               _                                                                                                  su~ _Q
Monitoring & Evaluation
Wo--d Bank- 17719
ma:n activities associated with implementation.
_o  M  M  M  M     activities associated w,th continuous subsequent operations.



COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM
1977                       1978                        1979                       1980                         1981
City                      a      a      a      a      a                   a       a                   a
Pereira Zone I
Pereira Zone 11
Girardot
Cucuta Zone 1
Cucuta Zone II 
Cucuta Zone II_
Cucuta Zone IV
Cartago
Armenia                                                                                              -
Villavicencio-                                                           --                   -
Sabanalarga                                         _              _     _      _
Tumaco                                                                                     a _
Quibdo
Barranca
Ibaque
Montería
Valledu par
Bucaramaranga
Turbo
Since le¡o
Tulua
Pasto
San Andres
Manizales
Santa Marta
Neiva
Riohacha                                                                                         _-  l
Worid Bank - 17718



COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM FOR A ZONE
Year 1                                Year 2                                Year 3
Activity                          Agency-                                                        -        -         -     
1   | 2           3        4         1        2         3        4        1         2         3        4
1. Promotion of the Community
Surveys                                SIP
Promotion                                                   _
Training
2. CDV                                      ICT
Design-                                                                                        -         -
Construction
3. Health                                   Min. Health
Equipment
Training                                                                                                          -                  -
Initial Operation
4. Education                                 ICCE
School Mapping
Construction                                                                             u
Equipment
Training                               Min. Educ.
5. Family Child Welfare (CAIP)
Equipment                              ICIF
Training
6. Production & Employment (UPE)
Surveys                                SENA
Training
Technical Assistance                   UPE
Loans                                  CFP
Set up Savings & Loan
Pre-Coop.                           UPE
7. Housing lmprovement
Area Plan                              ICT
Construct New Houses
Home Loans                                                                                                                                                  a a
8. Public Utilities
Studies & Designs                      INSFOPAL
Construction                           Empresas _
9. Project Management
CDV Management                         SIP                                                                                                                                          oOZ
Monitoring & Evaluation                                                                                                    -
Worid Bank -17719
main activities associated with implementation.
M  M  m _  _   activities associated with continuous subsequent operations.



ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA
Urban Development Project
PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
1.        The proposed investment is entirely consistent with two major poli-
cies of the Colombian government as expressed in its most recent national
development plan (Para Cerrar la Brecha, 1975):
--   to redirect migration streams away from the nation's
four largest cities;
--   to provide basic social services for the poorest 50%
of the population.
2.        The first of these policies is based more on political and social
values than on economic considerations, for studies have not been done of
the marginal costs of accommodating new migrants in cities of varying sizes.
Many problems associated with city size however are actually problems of
overly high rates of growth. Three of Colombia's four largest cities (Bogota,
Medellin, Cali) are growing at rates far above the urban mean, while most
of the project cities are growing at somewhat slower rates. But the project
list also includes such cities as Valledupar and Villavicencio, which are
growing even faster than is Bogota. Despite this lack of empirical under-
pinning, the policy of decentralization appears to enjoy political support,
perhaps because of a perception by elites that the quality of life in Bogota
has declined as the city has grown to its present size of more than 3 million.
3.        Incomes in Colombia are quite unequally distributed. 1/  The effects
of this are compounded by malidistribution of access to basic public services.
In the urban areas access of the poor to services tends to be limited parti-
cularly by the fact that they are less likely to hold title to the land on
which they live--and utility suppliers, particularly water and sewer agencies,
have been reluctant to extend service to plots with uncertain títle. Com-
paring service access for the highest and lowest income quintiles in inter-
mediate sized cities, we find: 2/
1/   The 1970 income Gíní coefficient was .5615.  Jain, Size Distribution of
Income: A Compilation of Data. IBRD, 1975.
2/   Marcelo Selowsky "Colombia: Availability of Public Services by Income
Groups--Evolution Between 1970 and 1974."



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Percent Lacking Service
Service                    Lowest Quintile       Highest Quintile
Piped water                       18.7                 3.1
Sewer                             41.3                 9.3
Electricity                        9.3                 1.3
4.        A major reform of Colombia's tax system in May 1974 substantially
increased the progressivity of income and sales taxes and tightened collec-
tion procedures. The government's stated policy has been to use the result-
ing revenues to finance projects that would improve the welfare of families
in the lower half of the income distribution. The marginal urban areas pro-
gram is one of these efforts, along with programs for health, nutrition and
rural development.
5.        The proposed investment is also consistent with the Bank's recently
developed guidelines for directing a greater share of urban project benefits
toward the urban poor, defined in Latin America as persons whose purchasing
power is less than one-third the national average. For Colombia, this means
urban dwellers with per capita incomes less than 4,863 pesos (US$154) per
annum. 1/ Data on the income levels of residents of the proposed project
zones are drawn from a variety of sources and do not permit tabular compari-
son of one city to another. They support the following generalizations:
(a)  The degree of concentration of the poor in intermediate
cítíes is about the same as that in the largest cities.
In a sample of 16 intermediate cities, 36% of residents
were in the lowest income group (family income below 2,500
pesos, 1973), while 25% of residents of the four largest
cities were in that category. Yet costs of líving also
differ among cities--the basket of goods purchased by
the poorest group cost 1942 pesos in the largest cities;
1,714 pesos in intermediate cities. 2/
(b)  Residents of the project zones have incomes less than the
average for the city in which they live. In Pereira, for
example, the proportion of residents of the two project
zones with per capita incomes under 600 pesos per month
is 68.8% (Zone 1) and 67.5% (Zone II). For the city as
a whole, 60.4% are under that level. In Girardot, of 7
1/   In 1975 US dollars; information provided by Urban Poverty Task Group.
Since our income data for the various cities are for three different
years, we have used the Task Group's guidelines to calculate cutoff
positions (in current pesos) for each year. The cutoffs for 1973-74-75
are respectively 345, 443, and 405 pesos per month.
2/   Hernando Gomez Otolara, "The Colombian Urban Sector" (unpublished
paper).



ANNEX 6
Page 3
barrios in the pro.ject zone, 5 have incomes less than the
general average. In the municipality of Cucuta, the aver-
age level of monthLy earnings is 1,621 pesos; in the
project zone earnings average 896 pesos. In the munici-
pality of Tulua, monthly earnings average 1,161 pesos; in
the project area they are 514.
(c) A high proportion of residents of the project zones meet the
Bank's urban poverty indentification críteria. For the first
4 cities to be impaicted by the proposed project, the propor-
tion of project area residents with incomes below the "rela-
tive poverty" miínimum are:
Pereira:            54%
Cartago:            83%
Cucuta:             74%
Girardot:           No income distribution available for
project zone, but average per capita
income is well below poverty level.
(d) Nevertheless, not all residents of project zones are poor.
Nor do all poor residents of the intermediate cities live
in project zones. The zones were defined in such a way
that most have popu:Lations of 10,000 to 25,000, the popu-
lation considered optimal for a CDV catchment area. It is
well known that res:ídential segregation by income is rela-
tively low in Latin American cities--rich and poor often
live in fairly close proximity. Thus, in constructing con-
tiguous CDV catchment zones, some standard neighborhoods
and individual houses had to be included along with the very
poorest barrios. Thís mixing tends to mute the income dif-
ferences between prcoject zones and the remainder of the cities.
(It has relatively little impact on the targeting of specific
services, since most of them, such as housing credits, have
income criteria which limit them to persons of low income).
The degree of heterogeniety of project zones varnes from city
to city.  In Cucuta for example, the project area is uniformly
poor; in Pereira, where the project zone parallels a ríver,
the families closest to the river are poor, those a few hun-
dred feet further away are relatively well off.
6.        The economic returns to major components of the project are
acceptable. The project aims to provide credit, infrastructure and social
services to segments of the population which were not previously integrated
within either credit markets or urban service supply systems. There is con-
siderable evidence in marginal barrios of a market that is in dísequili-
brium due to supply constraints, e.g., ICT had previously refused home



ANNEX 6
Page 4
improvement loans to persons not holding titles to their land; small enter-
príses in slum areas had no access to credit markets for their working
capital, no matter how profitable they might have been; residents of slum
areas in the larger cities eagerly participate in special sewerage programs,
even though the financial terms are very unfavorable. Thus, there are reasons
to believe a priori that the marginal values of the services provided by this
project would be high.
7.        Calculation of economic return to a multi-city, poverty neighborhood
project such as this requires some strong, often arbitrary assumptions.  Var-
ious parameters must be used, derived from single cities or from very small
samples, since data required to estimate them for each of the project cities
simply do not exist. With this caveat, the return to specific components
(adjusted for inflation) are estimated as follows (also see Table 1):
(a)  Housing improvement loans, serviced sites.  The internal rate
of return, based on the imputed rental value of the improved
properties, is estimated at 9.7%. Virtually all of these
improvements will be made on a self-help or "auto-construction"
basis. ICT estimates that families participating in such
projects contribute labor equal to 30% of the cost of the
materials used. If we assume that the minimum value of the
completed work is equal to the cost of the materials and
labor expended, the capital value of housing created will
be 1.3 times the amount of the materials loan. In fact, ICT
officials find that the market value of their "minimum solu-
tion" low cost house is considerably above its construction
cost. Thus our estimate can be considered a minimum estimate
of value.
The flow of benefits obtained from this new addition to the
housing stock may be estimated by its imputed rental value.
Monthly rentals for low income housing in Cali were found
to average about 68/100 of one percent of market value -- or
8.2% yearly. 1/ Applying this rent/value ratio to the esti-
mated value of the house improvements built in this project
gives us a return of 1.3 x .082 = 10.7% of the amount of
the ICT loan. Taking into account ICT's cost of appraising
and administering the loans results in an overall return to
this project component of 9.7%. Attributing an opportunity
cost to the self-help labor reduces this return; assuming
that the market value of the house is greater than its pro-
duction cost raises the return (see sensítivity analysis). 21
1/   Data from J. Linn, The Incidence of Urban Property Taxation in Develop-
ing Countries: A Theoretical and Empirical Analysis Applied to Colombia
(IBRD: 1977).
2/   Of course, if the value created by using family labor to build a house
or home improvement were not at least as large as the opportunity cost
of that labor, families would not use auto-construction at all.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
The imputed rent should account for additions to family
comfort and convenience, and for that portion of possible
health and productivity improvements enjoyed by the family.
It does not account for external benefits that may also
result from the housing improvement, such as possible
reduction in crime or in the demand for publicly provided
medical care. 1/
(b) Benefits to provision of water and sewerage are measured by
changes in the value of land acquiring these services. The
Colombian national land assessment agency (Instituto Geo-
grafico Agustin Codazzi) estimates that investment in water
and sewer raises the market value of a plot in a marginal
barrio (for sample plots in five intermediate sized cities,
adjusted for general price inflation) by an average of 311%.
Let us arbitarily assume that acquisition of water alone would
raise land values by half as much.  The9, assuming an average
value of uns2rviced land of 150 pesos/m and and average plot
size of 60 m , the investment would raise average plot value
by 13,995 pesos. Applying the rent/value ratio of .082, the
imputed benefit flow is 1,148 pesos/year. The capital cost
per plot of providing water service in the proposed project
is 11,990 pesos or an internal rate of return of 9.6% on the
investment. This calculation does not include possible public
health benefits nor possible increases in the value of prop-
erties bordering those acquiring the new services. Because
the empresas' water tariffs are based on property values, re-
assessment of the affected property could recapture a substan-
tíal part of the land value increase for the public sector.
(c)  Legalization of tenure.  Home ownership is of great signifi-
cance to the poor in the developing world. These people
have little job security or cash reserves; they usually are
ineligible for social security or other forms of public in-
come maintenance. Tlne rent-free ownership of their dwelling
is thus the single most important element in family economic
security. Interviews with squatters in Colombia and else-
where attest to the intensity of their desire to gain clear
title to their home <nd land. In addition to increasing
family security, it ¡s likely that clearing titles will in-
crease the value of the properties, resulting in a social
gain. Legalization should also encourage personal savings
through investment in home improvements.
(d) Credit for small enterprises. Based on past experience with
CFP loans, the bulk cf the borrowings will be used to increase
1/   See L.S. Burns and Leo Grabler, The Housing of Nations (London:  Mac
Millan, 1977).



ANNEX 6
Page 6
working capital. Benefits are measured by the additional
profits generated by use of the funds. A sample of 70
loans made by CFP to indivídual enterpríses ín 1975-76 found
that an average loan of US$2,370 generated US$1,750 in addi-
tional annual profits. 1/ Adjusting for (i) costs of risk
and administrative at 9% per year; (ii) general price ínfla-
tion--at 25% per year--which could be expected to have in-
creased profits over this períod; decrease the real benefit
stream to US$1,155 per year; giving an internal rate of re-
turn to CFP individual firm lending of 32%. CFP expects that
its returns to loans to community enterprises will be even
higher, but it's experience with such loans is too short to
provide reliable rate of return figures.
(e) Training. Investment in training through the SENA mobile
program, is directed at (i) developing managerial and opera-
tional skills for enterprises supported under other program
components; and (ii) developing skills marketable in exist-
ing enterprises, including jobs outside the project zone.
In the first case the training should result in rates of
return to CFP loans even higher than calculated--our rates
of return in (d) above are based on experience with loans
unsupported by complementary training.  In the second case
the return is less certain, since we note that current un-
employment rates in the marginal zones tend to be high
(Cartago 24.2%; Cucuta 11.7%; Pereira 12.9%).  SENA hopes
to increase the immediate employability of its trainees
by tailoring its training to the needs of specific local
industries and by gearing technical training to individual
skills rather than to increasing general competence.
(f) Improvements in primary education can be expected to in-
crease the future productivity of attendees.  Education has
consumption benefits to the recipients and is generally
thought to improve personal socíalization and citizenship.
Availability of schools should increase labor force parti-
cipation of mothers by making it possible for them to work
outside the home.
(g) Health and nutrition. Investments in these components have
obvious consumption benefits for those receiving the ser-
vices, for past medical coverage of the project zones was
spotty at best. There may also be social benefits, such
as the reduction of communicable diseases and decreases
1/   These figures are "expected" profits on a loan-by-loan basis.  CFP
has found that actual firm profits are usually very close to what
was expected.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
in time lost from work. The emphasis on preventative medi-
cine may reduce the demands on existing hospital facilities,
which now treat diseases of slum dwellers after they have
reached an advanc,ed stage.
8.        The concentration of multíple services in a single neighborhood can
be expected to have a synergistic impact, with investment in one component
(e.g. nutrition) raising the return to investment in another component (e.g.
education). 1/ Other examples are the synergism of SENA training and CFP
enterprise loans and that between legalization of tenure and investments in
housing and housing related services. The building of the CDV and the pro-
vision in a single structure of multiple services, the regularization of
the settlement, and the planned-for public participation in service delivery
is intended to create a sense of community identity and, taken as a whole,
reduce the social alienation said to be associated with the urban marginality
phenomenon.
9.        Substantial numbers of jobs will be created by the project, in-
cluding:
(a)  Construction jobs, some of them low skilled, resulting from
building of the CDVs, installation of water lines, and
preparation of serviced sites. INSFOPAL and ICT estimate
that 30% of their direct costs go for labor. Using INSFOPAL's
estimate of labor cost at 64,000 pesos/man-year, we find the
following amount of direct job creation:
Construction of CDVs                      1,065 man-years
Water supplies                            2,150 man-years
Serviced sites                            2,185 man-years
Total        5,400 man-years
Loans for house construction may also mobilize unemployed
labor.  If labor equal to 30% of the mortgage loan amount
is needed and íf 25-50% is hired rather than family origi-
nated, an additional 900-1800 man-years of employment would
be created.
(b) Permanent jobs, of a variety of skill levels, resulting
from CFP enterprise loans and from the operation of the
CDVs (e.g., promoters, building maintenance). Recent CFP
loan experience has been that loans to individual firms
1/   See for example the stuclies of nutrition/education interaction cited in
Marcelo Selowsky, "A Note on Preschool-Age Investment in Human Capital
in Developing Countries," Economic Development and Cultural Change,
July 1976.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
create jobs at an average cost of US$1,050/job. Using this
figure, we calculate that the US$4 million in CFP loans
made under this project would create 3,800 permanent jobs.
10.       The rate of return to individual components of the project change
when major assumptions are allowed to vary. The following table shows al-
ternative internal rates of return for the most likely variations in assump-
tions.
Housing Loans      Enterprise Credit      Water Supply
Opportunity cost of                   7.4%                n.a.                  n.a.
home labor equals
wage rate
Market value of auto-                11.6%                n.a.                  n.a.
constructed home --20%
greater than cost of all
inputs
Double allowance for                  n.a.                23.0%                 n.a.
risk and administration
on CFP loans
Value of unserviced                   n.a.                n.a.                  6.4%
land equal to 100 pesos/m2
Residents value                       n.a.                n.a.                 12.8%
water service twice as
highly as sewer service



ANNEX 6
Page 9
TABLE 1
SUMMARY OF PROJECT BENEFITS AND COST RECOVERY
Internal
Type of Benefit           Investment      Rate of Return
Component              (measure)             (US$ million)         (%)
Housing improvement      Increased comfort and
loans; serviced sites   convenience.  Improved
family health. Increased
workesr productivity
(imputed rent)               21.8              10
Water                    Increased comfort and
convenience. Improved
family and public
health. Increased
worker productivity
(increased capital value
of land serviced)            12.4              10
Regularization and       Increased family
tenure                   security.  Incentive to
save. Increased
capital value of land
and dwelling                  1.7             n.a.
Credit for small         Increased enterprise
enterprises              profits and new jobs           4.0              32
Training                 Increjased worker
productívity                  1.2             n.a.
Health and nutrition    Consuimption benefit.
Increased worker
productivity. Reduced
infant and child
mortality. Public
health benefit                0.7             n.a.
Education                Increa.se in future
produc.tivity.
Consuniption benefit          3.9             n.a.
Other programs           Increased community
consciousness                 4.1             n.a.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SIP ORGANIZATION
IPresrdencv
Administrat.ve Dopt
of the Presid-Vc
National Cooncil oi f           
SeBrvice Intergratíoo        _       ----- m                   SIP General Managerent                m  m  m  m  m  m                     Auditor
& Comm.  Part.
|S.bdi,ector
¡   Adrinionrotie                                                                                                                    o
B       |dget and                            Act Pay-                                  Ernp o e-e   & D¡vis                            ra         &=                           -L
F¡r,. Mal. Dio                   r~~~~erte. Sroragea,it                                                                  aM.  o  Se                                 ti.   i-nd
Firi .e.iD n  i=                                                                        i       =d
LocalI                                                                                                                             Loal
Caunlol                           -   ---   ----                         -________                          -_     t¡- Coord,nat,ng
for CDV                                                                                                                           DOff---r
.   Coordl-                                                                                                                             W       X
nating                    J                                                                                                        Local Pro-
Junts                                                                                                                              mnotior and
for' CDV Diffoo¡orn
World Bank - 17670



COLOMBIA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF THE PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC
(Decree 146 of 1976)
|  Office of the President 
Counselors                                                                  Private Sec
Press and Information                                                               House Guard
Secreta ry
Secretary General and
Head of the Administrative
Department
Telecommunications
Office
Sub-Secretary
_                 ~~~~~General
UQ z
Secretary for                           Secretary of                         SecretarV of
Public                                 the Council of                        Popular Integration             ¡_
Secretary                             Secretary                             Admin istration                         Mm isters
Worid Bank-17674



COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTO DE CREDITO TERRITORIAL (ICT)
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION OF HEAD QUARTERS
B OARD OF OIRECTORS|
|GCONTROLLER GENERAL OF                                             |DMINSTRATIE                                                                                       MINISTRY
THE REPUBLIC O                                                                                                    COMM ITTEE      )OF
AUIDIT.. GENERAL                                                                                     l          _                /ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ORGANIZATION &                                                                    ELANNI NG
CONTROL OFFICE                                                          LEGAL                           OFFICE
ORGANIZATION &                                                              CONTRACTS                     PROGRAMMING
METHODS SECTION                                                             SECTION                       SECTIO
INTERNAL CONTROL                                                                                           PLANNING &
SECTION          r                                                                                         FROJECTIONS
SECTION
STUO lES       |
T    SECTION F
OEPATEN            EARTMENT                                                        DEPARTMENT                             COMTE                    EPARTMN                      O TE
URBAN POLICY                                                                ECORECTCACCOUNTANT                                      ERNELSOCIAL                         SSESSRIE
URBAN     SUFERVISION    ~ADMINISTRA-            FSTUEREONCREDITSGENERALRVIRE
X   __    _        X                                     ..        X                                                                |~~~~~~~T.
SUS-STANDARD  CODRONATION            1FINANCIAL
ANALYSIS         SECURITIES       ACCOUNTING           TRAINING      TCOOINATION    |ROGRAMMING             FURCHASING
& METHOOS
-|C O -F IN A N C IN G   |   |A R C H IT E C T U R E   ||C O                  S T IN GOu     D E F A U L T S   |  -L DLA N S   |-|B E N E FIT S   |  |SEV C E ^|P O CE USI NG  | A T A   S T O R E S    |
-UDs |PNI |TREASURY  FAMILY  L |    SOCIAL              |- BENEFITS
REGIONAL OFFICES & AGENCIES
LANDO         ENGINEERING                                                                                                                                                         PBIAIN 
1 ANTIOQUIA        11 MAGDALENA           21 ESP. URB. INTERVEN.
_     T~ECHNOLOGY] | 2 ATLANTICO       12 META                22 BARRANCABERMEJA
EVALUATION  TECHNOLOGY     3 BLIVAR           13 NARINO              23 GIR~ARfOTRERS
4 BOYACA           14 NORTE DE SANTANDER  24 GUAJIRA
5 CALDAS           15 OUINDIO             25 SAN ANDRES
E CAUCA            16 RISARALDA           26 CHOCO
7 CESAR            17 SANTANDER          27 TUMACO
CORDOBA           1B SUCRE
9 CUNDINAMARCA     19 TOLIMA                                                                                                                                        Ix
10 HUILA            20 VALLE DEL CAUCA
World B-kr - 17982      O



COLOMBIA: URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR S.A.
Organization Chart as of December 31, 1976
General Assen,bly                           I     nspctoiI
|  Fiscal       |
~aIPrjects     -  -  -      Board of Directors   -Com-  -e
~men
---     General Manager
General                                        General
Secretary                                      Ai
Projec  Projct          Tehnica                                                                nHamaniv                                                                           OrAn dmionis,tiAdministrative
< - j   Operations   |                                   }               t   ~~~~~~~~~~           ~        ~      ~~~Committee  M|ae <                          _       4EeuIVe 
Enaluaion  Soervinn  Ansitance Coopertines      and                Traoy           Portfoíio      Acon¡g           eiinReulations                                                                            ceMsh
Pro9gramnrng
[    egiona7 l                           Personnel
IAdvisoryI           aae                 a  eno,Bnfs                                      SpI~
9                                                  nsarace TtFíes
LARMENIA          BINANGE        B'QUILLA       CALI       CUCUTA        MANIZALES         PEREIRA        C'GENA
LCPID
FebruarY 1977
World Bankr-17673



COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE BIENESTAR FAMILIAR
(ICBF)
PRESIDENT
D|-                                                                                                             H -Drctíoegoetd
General Director
*ff- :G--1 [                r               |                   f   {                   |                   l   l         Off   of Traf ¡ng.
Planning                                   D¡rector,                                  Siirftary                                   Legal                              Guideece and luman
Office                                     Offíoe                                     General                                     O8firce                             Rettource Administrarían
hepartment fer Wuerrren Nt-                             aremení OlpaNtmt of---                                                   Adminit tion ced          1                  Ad---Ory and
M h  YfInore   o                lNationgai Nutritio                                               P   romonton                        Finance Departegene                           Coordínating
D,-l-lon for the                          D        fvision tor the                                                               Tehoical
Drorsíoe of Legal                          C-ordinatot of-                            Social Promotion                                                                      A-u1-taece
Aceseance                                  Applí,d Nurritron                          of the M-nor and                           Fnance D.. le----                          Comm- ttee of
Program.                                  of the Fam-ly                                                                         Thr Dipcrtmcnt
_                     Dlvl~~~~~Oosion loe tOe            l_                                If
Or-isree of Social                     D--isron of Complementare                     Inepetien and                                                                            Teohmn ct
*   Readaotatian                       Nourishmenft ad Food                          Vigil-n--  of National                                                                   Commiee  on
Eseabilshments                         e es----s                                     A..istaece Endowed dNutriton
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r isteit uf rons
Dlor--co of TI' .nin                                           Df., S---rce                                                                                                     Pertoineí
and Guidance                                                                        E .       Nuer.tia  ---d T-1-t                  Di~                                         Commissio-
f Divlo-   f Atch,-                                                                                                                Bid, and
N.tr,,o ---  Studie                                                                      ur    d  ulding                           Putohasing Board
¡    Allantico    3     Bo.,la       ¡        Cauca      |     Cordoba      ¡     Gual-ra      ¡    Magdalcen             Natino     ¡        uondao     |    Santander             Tolima             Ch.o.t
U  E  E                 E                  U                   U                 ¡                    ¡~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.-i  S.  WUn~
Antíoouía           Boíiar             Caldes              Ceett         Coedinemerca            Huila               Meto             Notre tde           Desarrollo           Sucre             Valle              Bpgota
Wo rld Banke  17bd6






7BRD-12894 R
72'                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH4 1d,78
CA RIBBFAN              SfA
q.                              S~~~~~~~~OUTH AMERICA
/' d i'~~~~~~~~~\                                                  .-  Sv
N'SAÑ ANDRES                          _ °                                ¡
A1{
/ / ó. o ' ' i i. ~Cvrtoigvfl                                                                                                  O ///\¿ a 
.,/  av°41'    010v            bir    tMA  DALENA
W,)1 amv5 ~f. v5 f.,
,    ,               X  )    ls             > X    f                tSnK                                  v n pbs ¡55nv r555eeb dnCs
dv00  mdyv - v- f  ar! of ¡he
¡vppn!rtO  Or 05. $0. .¡,mC
= >    >    7ao   ~ ~  ~       A ~    °   t          <r' <  r [rerrrrl]  suc                                       aortetOrr whbnr vnrYrterve,en
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m ',                                                        W,f ffI w, ~ ,$-W',"i,,,
4vCRTEN                      EN              U ELA
CORDOBA                                               VE
DR
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
llgO=L;ep<o_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,/ C Hw>  - A D  A X
]   '   N A R I N            O           OFlerenci: -  V A LU E                            P EvS ert,
i  á;Vs  ~~~~~         ~~    ~~   A Q U ~~~       E      T    A                       _              3      
4bj~SN~                                ARAUCAe
COL0M&A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~.                                         1      N A  A t e  
\~~~~ CHOCOei gvPOCASAI  i-iE- N A«PrJEr7/;
Kv> ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     K
N A RIN  o"2~~~j.   j-~-                                      VA  U UPEST¡
COLOMBIA
URBAN tDEVELOPMENT¡ PROJECT                                                A¡MA Z0 NA 
VM.,vtv  OTIES INCiluED IN THEPRQJECT                                       ,,,,,y    v
-Elev=tions rbr e 140Oprt3,
-eFrJttYrirn - ivtemtSkCoRusrrSf r aníes                                                                 R   U
-.-  ntetefonc  25idrdt 100                                                                      /        '80
0          t450   a
MLOMS»kkTERS
t   78e              tF                       JP                      pt                      713                     62~~~~4.  8






COLOMBIA
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                      SAN FERNANDO
C¡ty of Girardot                                                                             , 
g.>\\   Project Area
Main Access Roads & Streets
Roads
'           Bridges
Built-up  Areas
-¡-- -    IRailroads
N 
o             500            1000
------ ---------- i{/4                                                                                                                      <
METERS
/       D   ~~ESTACtO N                      ,Ct 
¡                                                             World B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tsank s steaff ePxclusive/y for   ,",, ¿ c    >
f  ,v  X                        g      -   Z          A                                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the convenience of thte readers of  b 4 ;     
/ / ~ ........ ,/, t - -j / ... .. \The denomninations used and the                                           ¡                                  cl  Z s 
do no ,mfy /-   jX   \  d°und oon tite s pann of tite  n Sea
WORldNI BakUndisOffTAe, n
//                    / /                     0                           Wori~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¡dgmn enk athe iegai status of                      0_
/  /         jo   »0<                                  G<;               ~~~~~~~~~~~any terntory or anyendorsernent          - '-  'neraioo              tjo
/  /     i!o WACuE   t                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~oracceptance of such boundaries.      ,' BonoisO






1 B R D 12817
SEPTEM BER 1977
COLOMBIACiy  f UUt
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                             City of Cucuto
PROJECT  AREAS
-\ /^     MAIN AVENUES
STREETS AND ROADS
BUILD-UP  AREAS
f ue)A        \       \   CAZADORES           {          1'~
AIRPORT                                                        BRIDGES
0                                                                                                    N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7l  740 EZULA
bOGOTA
Tb,h-a has beco prepecbythre
World Bao e o o                                    ,af "os .",ly fo,                                                              -rn   /      /
th-p0 ,to , oo.  "te h.doro oCUADORY '
TI-.d--enotn osad so chal--                                                                         0          500        1000
d. ~-ply,~~'  - th p! «f.                             i                                            i 3,'e OT f
do ss Ofltf, 0 chaen pnarcelc y he                           .                                                                                                     'I>  -   4 é        
jdoa,not 00lo tOe epelotro of 'h                                                                                                                       PERU    /~-  -a
Worid Bank ,od ilafhates. ao                                                                                 METERS                                                         4
judg-et on th. bgs/ statusofy                                                                                                                          PER U        "'
er-y recotor or anty  eodor-- eot                                                                                                             i
o,ecoeptarnce of oc-h bo-ndaoao                                                                                                             -'       Ieeeeter onoy Bouedereeo






IBRD 12821
760                    COLOMBIA                                      AUGUST 1977
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\ NDEPENDENCIA
ooNDEPEN0ENCIA                                            City of Cartago
<<,\   |   J                                                   >                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVAR  
i*    N       BRIDGE
RZORT4
BOLIVAR                                                                     CA tEPE RAN ZA
Sur-NOS AIRES
-5* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 5
This map has been prepared by the
World Bank's staff exclusive/y for
the con,enjence of the readers of
,he report to which it is attached.
The denomninations used and thie
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the
World Bank and dts affiliates, any                                                                            E 
judgment on the legal status of
any territory or any endorsemente
or acceptance of such .boundar,es.
CARACOL                                                        rjctAe
A,MeR IC-A                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main Access Roads
&  Streets
Roads
<5p @--7   .  EL  (;LANO  0                               i Z  i           .         E                              : .~r------  B d e s
| :                                                    | OIA500  1000Br                                 es
Built-up Areas
METERS                         P~~           ---I-           Railroads
Iní¡reeíione¡                                                 760                                                       River  &  Strecam
Soun.dorllli 1..bl:1 ¡fi






_________________________________________________________________                                                                                          B    R  71 B R   D   12 8 1
SPTFABFR p97R
COLOMBIA 
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
City of Pereira                                                                                         1*.RI  !R   -
MAIN AVEMUES
-- REFTS AND ROADS
' RIJIIT UP ARLAS b                                                                                       '-
RIVEAS                                                                                                                                                           PE



