RETURN TO
Document of               REPORTS  D 5' SK
The World Bank                      ONITHI N
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2158-Co
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 14, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1977       March 31, 1978
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$                         Col $
US$1          = Col$36.985                          38.42
Col$          = US$0.027                            0.02603
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BP         =   Banco Popular
CDV        -   Neighborhood Development Center
CFP        =   Corporacion Financiera Popular
DNP            Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
ICBF       =   Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
ICCE       =   Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones Escolares
ICT        =   Instituto de Credito Territorial
INSFOPAL       Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
MAC        =   Basic Module of Health Care
PAN        =   National Nutrition Program
SENA       =   Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
SIP        =   Secretaria de Integraci6n Popular
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Colombia
Amount:                   US$24.8 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at 7.5% per annum.
Terms of Loan
Proceeds Transfer:      US$10.9, US$5.0, and US$2 million equivalent of loan
proceeds would be transferred to Instituto de Credito
Territorial (ICT), Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal (INSFOPAL), and Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP), respectively, as equity contributions.
Project
Description:            The project would provide comprehensive assistance
in several mutually supporting fields to about 550,000
people, mostly among the poorest 30% of the population,
in 27 zones in 23 selected towns, in order to improve
their living standards and productivity. The assist-
ance would include construction of community develop-
ment centers, extensions of primary education to
about 95% of the eligible population, health and
nutrition services, promotion of community enterprises
and credit, regularization of land tenure, home
improvement, sites and services, and water supply
and sewerage. Achievement of the project's benefit
will depend upon the coordination of the agencies
charged with carrying out the project. The coordina-
tion mechanisms devised at local and national levels,
the Government's strong commitment to social programs
to assist the poor and the monitoring system proposed
in the project should ensure that coordination will
indeed be effective.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Estimated Costs:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
----(US$ Million)----
Social Services
Community Development Centers          3.6      1.2     4.8
Education                              1.9     0.4      2.3
Health                                 0.3      0.1     0.4
Child and Family Care                  0.6     0.1      0.7
6.4     1.8     8.2
Employment and Productive Credit
Vocational Training                    1.4      0.7     2.1
Small Enterprises Credit               3.3     0.8      4.1
Technical Assistance                   0.1       -      0.1
4.8     1.5      6.3
Physical Improvements
Water Supply and Sewerage              5.1      1.7     6.8
Land Tenure Regularization             0.9      0.3     1.2
Home Improvement                       5.9      2.0     7.9
Sites and Services                     3.9      1.3     6.8
15.8     5.3    21.1
Project Management and Evaluation        3.0      0.5     3.5
Engineering and Administration           0.7      0.4     1.1
Base Costs                              30.7      9.5    ':0.2
Physical Contingencies                   4.0      1.2     5.2
Price Contingencies                     14.8      3.8    16.6
Total Project Cost                      47.5    14.5    62.0
Financing Plan:
Internal Resources of Participating
Entities
Instituto de Credito Territorial    12.6         -     12.6
Instituto Colombiano de
Bienestar Familiar                   1.1      -       1.1
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje       2.0      -       2.0
Government                              19.5       -     19.5
Banco Popular                            2.0       -      2.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                      10.3    14.5    24.8
TOTAL                        47.5    14.5    62.0
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY                       1979    1980    1981    1982
----------(US$ Million------
Annual                        7.0     6.5      6.2     5.1
Cumulative                    7.0    13.5    19.7    24.8
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1681-CO, dated April 10, 1978



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR AN URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of US$24.8 million to
help finance an urban development project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum. US$10.9
US$5, and US$2 million equivalent of loan proceeds would be transferred to
Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT), Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal
(INSFOPAL), and Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), respectively, in pesos,
as equity contributions, for physical improvements and productive employment
generation.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report on Colombia (1548-CO) was distributed
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It assesses current developments and
provides a medium-term perspective of the Colombian economy. Country data
sheets are provided in Annex 1.
Background
3.        During the past two decades substantial structural transformation
has taken place in the Colombian economy. The country has made impressive
progress in the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural
economy made up of largely self-contained regions to a more integrated urban
industrial economy oriented increasingly toward international trade. This
broadening of the country's productive base has been accompanied by rapid
growth of nontraditional exports and development of a modern sector which
relies to a considerable extent on imported inputs. From 1967 to 1974 GDP
rose by an average of 6.5% per annum in real terms, well above the historical
average of less than 5% (1950-67). Accelerated economic growth coupled with
a decline in population growth brought about a rapid increase in per capita
incomes. Increased investment and relaxation of the foreign exchange con-
straint were the major factors responsible for this acceleration in growth.
Merchandise exports expanded more than four-fold during this period, and,
most significantly, nontraditional exports became an increasingly important
source of foreign exchange earnings, in large part compensating for the slow
1/   Substantially unchanged from President's Report, Second Cali Water
Supply and Sewerage Project (Report No. P-2169-CO).



-2-
growth of receipts from coffee exports. Much of this increase in non-
traditional exports was the result of both product and market diversifica-
tion attributable to the Government's export promotion program. Substantial
medium- and long-term capital inflows to the public and private sectors for
development projects helped sustain investment levels and enabled Colombia
to maintain the favorable structure of its external debt. However, despite
the substantial progress made during the past two decades, Colombia still
has a long way to go on the road toward modernization; it still is
essentially an underdeveloped country with a limited modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and poor base.
4.        When the present Government took office in August 1974, the country
was faced with a generally deteriorating economic situation--weakening balance
of payments, loss of self-sufficiency in petroleum production, accelerating
inflation, deterioration of the public finances, and reduced public invest-
ment. GDP growth showed signs of slowing and unemployment was increasing,
especially in the urban areas, reaching a peak of 13% in 1974. As a con-
sequence, the new administration moved rapidly to introduce an economic
stabilization program along with a set of reforms aimed at restoring the basis
for long-term economic growth. In line with these goals, it initiated basic
reforms of the fiscal, monetary and price systems.
5.        To help strengthen the public finances, the new Government undertook
a comprehensive tax reform designed to achieve a substantial improvement in
the progressivity and elasticity of the tax system. Steps were also taken to
correct major distortions which existed in the price system. Price controls
on a number of important agricultural products were removed, thereby providing
greater stimulus for increasing farm production. Far-reaching modifications
in petroleum pricing policy aimed at regaining self-sufficiency in production
of crude petroleum by improving incentives for exploration and exploitation
were introduced. Concurrently, measures were taken to reduce the subsidy on
local consumption of petroleum products, with the dollar equivalent price of
gasoline being raised in successive steps by 150% between August 1975 to
January 1977.
6.        Economic growth slowed in 1975 and 1976, with real GDP increasing
by less than 5% in both years. This was the result of the stablilization
measures adopted at the end of 1974, the effects of the world recession,
reduced private investment, and, in 1976, a poor harvest stemming from adverse
weather conditions. The stabilization program succeeded in reducing inflation
from 27% in 1974 to 18% in 1975, but the expansionary impact of rising inter-
national reserves caused by higher coffee prices and shortages of basic food
items produced an acceleration of inflation to 26% in 1976.  Private invest-
ment declined in real terms during this period as a consequence of attempts to
stablize the economy through tighter fiscal and monetary measures. Public
sector revenues and savings were strengthened as a result of the tax reform
and of increased revenue from coffee export taxes. The balance of payments
improved substantially in 1976, mainly as a result of an increasing trade
surplus caused by higher world coffee prices. Consequently Colombia's
net international reserves rose by nearly threefold, from US$437 million
in 1974 to US$1,166 million in 1976.



-3-
Recent Economic Performance
7.        Growth and employment picked up significantly in 1977, largely
as a result of increased internal demand generated by the income effects of
exceptionally high export receipts from coffee. GDP is estimated to have
increased by 5.4%. This higher level of growth was distributed evenly over
all sectors of the economy except non-coffee agriculture which was affected
by the continuation of the severe drought which began in the second half of
1976. High world coffee prices during 1977 produced a record trade surplus
and the balance of payments registered an overall surplus for the year of
US$686 million. By year end, Colombia's net international reserves stood at
US$1,852 million, equivalent to seven months' imports, the highest level in
the country's history. Increased export receipts from coffee contributed to
a further strengthening of public finances over that which had occurred in
1975-76. Increased receipts from taxes on coffee exports caused a substantial
increase in the current surplus of the Central Government, more than off-
setting unexpected slower growth in some of the country's other major taxes.
8.        Expansion of coffee earnings combined with the shortages of basic
food items led to an unprecedented acceleration of inflation during the
first half of 1977. For the twelve month period ending in June 1977 infla-
tion reached 45%. In an attempt to reduce inflationary pressure the Govern-
ment introduced a number of fiscal and monetary measures aimed at curbing
growth of coffee producers disposable income, at further strengthening public
finances and at slowing the growth of the monetary aggregates. Legal reserve
requirements were increased, limits were placed on external borrowing, and
Central Bank rediscounts were reduced. The coffee retention tax rate was
doubled from 23% to 46%, and the system of delayed payments to coffee pro-
ducers was used to further limit growth of coffee producers' disposable in-
come. In order to increase aggregate supply and stem the rapid accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves, import duties were reduced and the import
licensing system was liberalized. In an effort to curb upward pressure on
prices, the authorities temporarily discontinued their policy of periodic
adjustments in the foreign exchange rate and in prices of petroleum products.
The last two measures were only a temporary expedient to break the infla-
tionary spiral. From July 1977, the Government has resumed periodic ex-
change rate adjustments and in January 1978 increased the price of gasoline
by 20%. The Government intends to continue to pursue policies that maintain
Colombia's international competitiveness and that help regain petroleum
self-sufficiency.
9.        Another conflict between short-term and long-term objectives exists
in the Government's interest rate policies. To avoid cost push effects,
nominal interest rates were frozen during the period of accelerating inflation
and real interest rates declined rapidly and became sharply negative. As a
consequence there was a growing unwillingness on the part of the public to
hold medium- and long-term financial assets, and investment funds had to be
increasingly allocated by cumbersome administrative controls. The problem
has become less serious as inflation has abated, but will require further
attention by the Government.



-4-
10.       The stabilization measures taken earlier in the year, the gradual
decline of world coffee prices from June 1977 on, and the availability of more
ample agricultural supplies on the domestic market resulting from both im-
proved weather and increased imports, produced a dramatic slowdown in infla-
tion in the second half of 1977. For the full year 1977, inflation was re-
duced to 29%. Further declines in the rate of inflation are expected this
year as the Government maintains tight fiscal and monetary policies.
Additionally, declines in international coffee prices and rapid increases
in imports are expected to further reduce inflationary pressures from the ex-
ternal sector. Prospects for this year's agricultural output appear good, and
the Government is prepared to increase food imports substantially if needed.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       The Government's development strategy, embodied in the 1975-78
development plan, aims at creating the conditions necessary for substantially
increasing employment opportunities, particularly for the poorest segments of
the population. It provides incentives for private sector investment in the
least developed areas of the country and for the use of more labor intensive
production techniques. Public sector investment specified in the Plan concen-
trates on expanding and improving infrastructure and on socially oriented
projects designed to alleviate rural and urban poverty. This includes compre-
hensive integrated rural development and nutrition programs which directly
benefit the lowest income groups of the population. Because of the importance
of commercial agriculture in generating employment and expanding exports,
Colombia's development plan assigns a high priority to providing farmers
with credit and technical services required to increase output. In order
to alleviate urban poverty, the Plan places emphasis on reducing migration
to the cities by increasing employment in agriculture and through provision
of improved services in slums of Colombia's major cities. These efforts
are being complemented by policies and programs to encourage the development
of small- and medium-scale enterprises and to decentralize industry away
from the three largest cities. Special priority is given to the development
of domestic energy sources to reduce the country's growing dependence on
imported oil.
12.       In the past three years substantial progress has been made in
carrying out this strategy despite the economic dislocations occasioned by the
world recession and the need to concentrate on short-term economic management.
Most of the Government's development efforts during this period have focussed
on improving the standard of living of the poorest 50% of the population, with
a substantial share of the benefits of public sector expenditures accruing to
this segment of the population. Provision of improved social services has
been a major objective of the current administration. This is reflected in
the increase in expenditures on education, health, water and sewerage, which
rose from 33% of total expenditures in 1974 to 37% in 1976. Preliminary
estimates show an even higher share spent on such programs in 1977.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding
deficit which could reach significant proportions by the early 1980s. To
avoid the constraint on growth that shortages of energy would entail, the
Government is giving high priority to the development of alternative energy



-5-
sources. Major projects are being developed to expand hydroelectric power
generation and incentives are being provided private companies for accele-
rated exploration and exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon potential.
Coal and natural gas are expected to provide an increasing contribution to
the country's energy needs in the future. An energy development program,
which would nearly triple power generation by 1986, has been drawn up by
the Government, with estimated investment requirements of between US$6.0 and
US$8.0 billion in constant 1976 prices. Given the long gestation periods
of power projects, their execution must be initiated without delay if energy
constraints on future growth are to be avoided.
14.       The Government is making a major effort to accelerate growth of the
agricultural and industrial sectors. In the past, Colombia has been largely
self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs. However, an increasing food deficit is
projected for the years ahead in the absence of major advances in food pro-
duction. The Government is attempting to meet these needs through integrated
rural development programs directed towards small farmers, through expanded
farm credit, research, extension and marketing facilities and through improved
farm management practices, including farm investment planning. Industry has
been singled out as the leading growth sector for the future and the Government
has adopted exchange rate, fiscal incentive, credit allocation, and locational
policies intended to assure that the sector fulfills its role as a major con-
tributor to employment growth and exports.
15.       Based on its strong resource base and its high level of international
reserves, Colombia should be able to sustain annual real growth of no less than
6% over the period 1978-82. Private sector investment is expected to recover
as inflation subsides and fiscal and monetary policies are eased. Public
sector investment is expected to increase as restraints on such spending are
lifted and major energy projects enter the execution stage. Non-inflationary
increases in public sector investment spending depends to a large degree on
continuing Government efforts to maintain high levels of public sector savings.
In this regard, timely and adequate adjustments of tariffs on public services
is especially important, and the Government has already gone a long way in
the adoption of such policies.
16.       Less buoyant terms of trade as world coffee prices decline from
the high 1977 level and rapidly increasing imports to meet the requirements
of expanding investment are expected to lead to a renewed widening of the
resource balance beginning in 1978. Assuming that economic growth accele-
rates in the industrialized countries and that appropriate incentives--
particularly continuation of periodic exchange rate adjustments--are provided,
nontraditional exports should resume the high rate of growth achieved in the
early 1970s. Colombia is projected to require gross capital inflows of about
US$3.7 billion during the five year period 1978-82, of which US$340 million
should be disbursed from commitments made through the end of 1976. This
inflow would enable Colombia to maintain an adequate level of foreign ex-
change reserves during the period. A significant increase in capital require-
ments is expected in the early 1980s when major additional projects in the
energy sector will have to be initiated. To achieve these targets, annual gross



-6-
capital inflow will have to increase from US$600 million in 1976 to over
US$1.0 billion in 1982. Since the projected foreign exchange requirements
associated with the public investment program would be greater than the
foreign exchange component of the portion of it that is suitable for project
financing, and in view of Colombia's progressive development policies and
domestic resource mobilization efforts, local-cost financing by external
agencies is justified. While about half of Colombia's capital inflow is
expected to be provided by official multilateral and bilateral sources,
financing from commercial sources is expected to become increasingly important
during the period as Colombia gains greater access to international capital
markets.
17.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$3.3 billion at the end of 1976, or about US$2.4 billion
excluding undisbursed commitments. The Bank/IDA share of this external
debt was 28.5% and is expected to decline to about 25% by 1982. Although
the public debt service ratio fell during the past two years as export
growth accelerated, this ratio is projected to increase from 9.5% in
1976 to about 11% by 1982. Balance of payments prospects beyond 1980 will
depend among other factors on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based
export oriented projects currently under preparation. As a developing country,
it is normal to expect Colombia to be a net capital importer, i.e. to have a
deficit in its balance of payments on current account. However, to avoid an
excessive growth in this deficit over the next few years, careful management
of internal demand will be required. Given such management, it should be
possible to prevent the external sector from again becoming a constraint
on economic growth, and to maintain Colombia's present creditworthiness
for external borrowing of substantial amounts on conventional terms.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
18.       The proposed loan, the 71st to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$1,587.2 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount, US$1,170.3 million is now held by the Bank; IDA made
one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in Colombia in 1961. Disbursements
have been completed on 46 loans and the IDA credit. IFC has made effective
investments and underwriting commitments of US$53.7 million in 24 enterprises
and how holds US$28.1 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and the IDA credit as of February 28, 1978, and IFC investments as of
February 28, 1978. The Annex also contains summaries on the execution of
the 23 on-going projects.
19.       Since FY68, Bank lending in Colombia has become more diversified
and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs and activities which
carried social as well as economic benefits. Eight of the eleven agricultural
loans have been made since then, seven of the ten loans for industry, all
three loans in the education sector and all seven loans for water supply and
sewerage and one nutrition project. This compares with only seven loans
since FY68 in the power and transport sectors.



-7-
20.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY77 consisted of loans for rural devel-
opment, agricultural credit, telecommunications, highways and small-scale
industry, totalling US$281 million equivalent. In addition to the proposed
urban development project, the FY78 program includes the recently approved
loans for nutrition improvement, water supply and sewerage, and proposed
loans for power and industry. Work is also under way in development finance
companies, further urban development, urban sanitation and slum improvement,
power, transportation, mining, and small farm development for possible considera-
tion by the Executive Directors during the next two years.
21.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop domestic sources of energy,
a substantial part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank
would also attempt to assist the development of coal mines, which hold poten-
tial in helping Colombia meet part of its energy requirements. Bank involve-
ment in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as
some of the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would
finance agriculture and industry to assist the Government in its efforts to
raise overall productivity, income and employment and to strengthen and
diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed
Bank lending for transport infrastructure in more backward areas of the
country to integrate them into the modern economy. In this context, we
are proceeding with a project to improve domestic airports. Finally, we
are preparing a relatively large number of loans in support of the Govern-
ment's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the Colombian population. The
proposed urban development, urban sanitation and slum improvement, and water
supply and sewerage projects are principally designed to improve the poor's
standard of living.
22.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and AID provided about 75% of total external financing to
Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since then to
approximately 40%. Like the Bank, IDB and AID have given increased emphasis
to social projects. For instance, the IDB has assisted projects in low cost
housing, urban and rural development, agrarian reform, university education,
water supply, and land erosion; in the future IDB proposes to assist Colombia
in its plans to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the activity
of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment. AID has
supported programs in education, urban development and small farm development.
More recently, it has moved to small project loans aimed chiefly at improving
the distribution of income. It is expected to phase out its aid program in
Colombia in 1979 with the commitment of a US$6 million nutrition loan.
PART III - THE LOW-INCOME URBAN SECTOR IN COLOMBIA
Background
23.       During the past several decades Colombia experienced one of the
highest rates of urban growth in Latin America. By 1977, the urban popula-
tion is estimated to have reached about 70% of the total; this is more than



-8-
double that of 1938. During the period 1951-64, which coincided with wide-
spread rural violence, the urban population grew at an average annual rate
of 6% or one and a half times faster than the growth of total population.
Growth of urban population has since decreased to an annual average rate of
around 4.6%.
24.       Unlike other countries of comparable size and development, Colombia
has several fairly large urban centers. Sixteen cities have more than 100,000
inhabitants. Bogota has about three million, Medellin 1.5 million, Cali over
one million, Barranquilla over 700,000 and Cartagena, Bucaramanga, Manizales
and Pereira each have about 300,000. Industrial development has concentrated
around the four largest cities which, together, account for over 80% of the
industrial employment and output of the country.
Service Levels, Income, Unemployment and Housing
25.       Average living conditions in the urban centers are better than in
the rural areas, largely as a result of the Government's programs to expand
and improve basic public services. In 1974, for example, 90% of all house-
holds with electricity were in the urban areas, as were 88% with piped water
and 96% with sewerage connections. Nevertheless, one-fourth of the urban
population still does not have direct access to water and two-thirds lack
sewerage disposal facilities. The situation in the four largest cities,
however, with respect to basic services, is on average more favorable at
all income levels.
26.       Income distribution appears to be more skewed in the urban than
in rural areas. A recent Bank study found that the lowest 40% of the house-
holds in Colombia encompassing some 47% of the population received roughly
14% of total income in 1974. However, the urban portion of these households
received only 13% of the urban income while the rural component's share of the
rural income amounted to 21%. 1/ About 36% or six million of the urban population
were living below the poverty level estimated at US$150 per capita annually
while the corresponding figure for the rural sector was 60% or 4.3 million in
1974.
27.       Unemployment and under-employment continue to be serious problems
in the urban sector, although the situation has improved recently. The
highest unemployment rate is among people under 25 years of age, 60% of the
urban unemployed in 1973 and females. About 40% of the urban unemployed are
the heads of households. Unemployment is higher among those having primary
education or less (23% unemployed) than for those with secondary and higher
education (11% unemployed).
28.       One of the disturbing aspects of the urban growth in Colombia has
been the significant housing deficit. A recent survey by one of Colombia's
major public agencies, Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT), found that in
I/   The Distribution of Public Services by Income Groups:  A Case Study of
Colombia (RPO-296) by Marcelo Selowsky, IBRD.



-9-
69 cities surveyed, 41% or 4.5 million of the population live in substandard
housing conditions, while 13% or 1.4 million lacked title to the land. The
urban poor obtain land either by takeover or fraudulent land sales (pirate
subdivisions). Land takeover is promptly followed by community organization
so as to effectively articulate demands on municipal governments. If
settlers are not allowed to stay, arrangements for resettlement are often
made. "Pirate subdivisions" are those started by promoters who purchase
plots and subdivide them without municipal consent because the plots lack
basic services. The promoters disappear as soon as the land is sold. It
has been estimated that more than one-half of the 1972 population of
Bogota lived in "pirate subdivisions". Since the houses are built on land
over which the occupants receive no legal title, because the final deeds
are not executed or cannot be registered, the improvement of the property,
which often is quite valuable and represents an impressive savings effort,
cannot be used as collateral to obtain credit.
Causes of Urban Poverty
29.       Successive Governments in Colombia have concentrated their develop-
ment efforts on two interrelated goals: a) achieving self-sustaining economic
growth; and b) expanding employment opportunities. Over the last two decades
considerable progress has been achieved. Between 1960 and 1976 the GNP per
capita in current dollars rose from US$210 to US$640, while employment
increased by nearly one-half in that period. Significant advances were also
made in a variety of social services, including the expansion and consolida-
tion of the education sector and the spread of potable water supply and health
services. The decline in population growth has also contributed to an improve-
ment in the standard of living of a large number of Colombians (see para 3
above).
30.       Poverty has continued and in some cases increased, despite the
progress achieved. The sluggish growth of agriculture and the insufficiency
of non-farm employment opportunities have prevented a large segment of the
population from participating in productivity and income gains. In the
urban sector, poverty has been accentuated by the continuing influx of people
from the countryside who cannot find employment; they often lack education
and/or technical skills. A study carried out by the Universidad de Los Andes
found that in 1973 six out of every ten urban unemployed were born outside the
city surveyed. The lack of urban employment opportunities has led to a large
number of under-employed, who are mostly engaged as street vendors and at best
obtain subsistence incomes in the informal sector. Additionally, nutritional
deprivation, poor shelter, lack of safe water and deficient sanitation often
IF         result in diseases which go unattended because of inadequate health facilities.
Thus, the vicious cycle of low productivity, poverty and unemployment continues
regardless of increased opportunities available.
Government's Programs
31.       Without abandoning the major objectives of maintaining high
rates of economic growth and employment, the present Administration has
given greater emphasis to programs that assist the poor and has allocated an



- 10 -
important part of public funds to finance them. To improve living conditions
in the rural sector and thereby discourage migration to urban areas, in
September 1976 the Government launched an Integrated Rural Development Program
(IRDP) to assist 500,000 small farmers raise their productivity, output and
income. The IRDP includes the upgrading of social services, with the purpose
of reducing the disparities between rural and urban amenities. This program
is being assisted by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA),
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Bank. The IRDP is being
complemented by the National Food and Nutrition Program (PAN), which seeks
to reduce malnutrition among the poorest 30% of the population. The rural
two-thirds of PAN beneficiaries are generally landless and therefore benefit
only indirectly from the agricultural investments of IRDP.  To assist PAN,
last September the Bank approved a US$25 million equivalent loan.
32.       In the urban sector, the Government is continuing to give priority
to water supply, sewerage and public health programs. At present, water
supply and sewerage programs are being carried out in 15 departmental capital
cities and in 37 small towns. A National Health Plan was started in 1975 and
is covering almost one-half of the urban regions of the country. The Govern-
ment is also promoting integration of the more backward regions into the
national economy through increased and better distributed industrial credit
and through development of medium- and small-scale industry. The Bank loan
for the Second Small-Scale Industry Project approved in June of 1977 is a case
in point. The project, at full implementation two and one-half years hence,
is expected to generate 3,000-4,000 direct jobs and another 1,000-1,500 jobs
through forward and backward linkages. Additionally, the Government is
providing telecommunications facilities in smaller towns which lack such
service, and in June 1977, the Bank approved a US$60 million loan for this
purpose.
33.       While these programs are essential, the Government recognizes
that in the short run they are unlikely to lead to a substantial betterment
of the living conditions of the urban poor. It has, therefore, designed
the Integrated Services and Community Participation Program (IPC) - which
seeks to attack the causes as well as the symptoms of urban poverty. IPC's
basic philosophy is that improvements in the standard of living of the urban
poor can be sustained over time only if a reasonable increase in their incomes
takes place, which in turn depends upon improved nutrition, health and educa-
tion, and sustained employment within the same household.
34.       IPC's other basic approach is the realization that the urban poor
have an impressive community organization capability, and only by enlisting
this talent can integrated urban poverty programs be successful. IPC, there-
fore, involves the urban poor in management and coordination of multisectoral
activities which constitute the root basis of the program, i.e. social services,
infrastructure, communal enterprise development, and credit.



- 11 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
BackRround and Oblectives
35.       The project constitutes the first phase of the Integrated Services
and Community Participation Program (IPC). It was prepared by the National
Planning Department with the assistance of Secretaria de Integracion Popular
of the Office of the Presidency (SIP), which would be responsible for its
overall implementation.
36.       The Bank has assisted the Government since early 1975 in defining
the program, particularly its integrated approach, community participation,
and gradual implementation. The latter is important because it would enable
the Government to improve the program on the basis of continuous feedback
obtained from monitoring its progress.
37.       The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Colombia
in February 1977. Supplementary work was performed by another mission in
May 1977. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in the week of February
28, 1978, with a Colombian delegation headed by Dr. Gabriel Turbay, Director
of Public Credit.
38.       The objectives of the project are (i) to provide comprehensive
assistance in several mutually supporting fields to about 550,000 urban poor
in 27 zones of 23 selected towns, 1/ in order to improve their living stand-
ards and productivity; (ii) increasingly to base the delivery of services on
the beneficiaries' organizations; (iii) to strengthen the capability of the
Government to coordinate the activities of the various executing agencies in
order to ensure attainment of the project's objectives; and (iv) to enable
the Government, through continuous monitoring and evaluation, to improve the
program.
Summary Description
39.       The project includes:
(a) Construction of a community development center in each of
the 27 areas selected, which would accommodate facilities
to render certain services, and would enable the promotion
of organized community support for, and participation in,
the delivery of such services; and the delivery of more and
better educational, health and child and family care services.
1/   The towns are the following:  Armenia, Barrancabermeja, Bucaramanga,
Cartago, Cucuta (4 zones), Girardot, Ibague, Riohacha, Manizales,
Monteria, Neiva, Pasto, Pereira (2 zones), Quibdo, Sabanalarga,
San Andres, Santa Marta, Sincelejo, Tulua, Tumaco, Turbo, Valledupar,
and Villavicencio.



- 12 -
(b) Establishment of promotion units in each of the selected areas
to assist members of the community in the organization of productive
enterprises, and in obtaining credit; promotion of savings and loan
cooperatives; a credit program to provide working capital and fixed
assets financing on medium- to long-terms to small enterprises in
the communities; and a program of training and of technical assist-
ance, especially in marketing and management, to enable members of
the communities to obtain employment and increase their produc-
tivity.
(c) Extension of water supply to the selected areas, including
metered connections where not available; regularization of land
tenure; construction of about 7,300 housing units under a "sites
and services" program; and a credit program for home improve-
ment, especially for installation of sanitary facilities.
(d) Project management and evaluation, especially to enable
Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) adequately to
monitor, evaluate and refine the program.
Costs and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project is estimated  at the equivalent of
US$62 million, including contingencies but excluding the contribution of
beneficiaries of the credit programs to the cost of the specific investments
to be financed with such credits. US$14.5 million equivalent, or 24% of the
cost, is estimated to represent foreign exchange costs.
41.       The proposed Bank loan of US$24.8 million equivalent would finance
40% of the estimated cost of the project and would cover the estimated
foreign exchange cost of US$14.5 million equivalent and US$10.3 million
equivalent of local currency costs. Local currency financing is justified
for the reason stated in paragraph 16 above.
42.       The remainder of the financing for the project would be provided by
local sources, as follows:
US$ Million        % of
Equivalent    Prolect Cost
Government                              19.5             32
Banco Popular                            2.0              3
ICT                                     12.6             20
ICBF                                     1.1              2
SENA                                     2.0              3
Total                             37.2              60



- 13 -
43.       US$10.9, US$5.0 and US$2 million equivalent of Bank loan proceeds
would be transferred by the Government to Instituto de Credito Territorial
(ICT), Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL), and Corporacion
Financiera Popular (CFP), respectively, as equity contributions. Such
transfers would enable these agencies to participate in the project and,
afterwards, to increase their participation in similar projects.
Detailed Features of Components
44.       A Plan for Each Area.  The project consists of a set of investments
and community organizational efforts in defined areas with population ranging
between 10,000 and 25,000 inhabitants each, within selected intermediate-size
cities. A plan would be formulated for each area to ensure the provision of
resources to the target beneficiaries. Four of such plans have already been
prepared. Assurances were obtained that a plan satisfactory to the Bank would
be prepared for each area which will identify the works to be performed, rate
their urgency, schedule their implementation, and budget the pertinent expenses
of all the agencies involved. Works would not start until the plan is approved
by the National Council (see para. 67 below) and no disbursement of Bank loan
proceeds on account of expenses in the area would take place prior to approval
of the plan by the Bank (Section 3.01(b) and para 4(b) of Schedule 1, Loan
Agreement).
A. Social Services
45.       Community Development Centers (CDV).  A CDV would be constructed in
each area to accommodate, to the extent required, the provision of training,
education, population, health and nutrition, and child and family care to the
community, to facilitate its organization to participate in the delivery of
these services, and to improve the communication between the agencies respon-
sible for providing these services and the potential beneficiaries. Twenty-
seven modular installations, flexible in design to permit gradual expansion,
would be constructed in accordance with design standards satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.01 and Part A(a) of Schedule 2, Loan Agreement).
46.       The participation of the community in organization and coordination
is considered crucial to ensure that there will be a recurrent commitment to
maintain the services at adequate levels. Assurances were obtained that a
coordinating committee would be organized in each area, composed of representa-
tives of the agencies providing services through the CDV, community representa-
tives, and chaired by the regional administrative coordinator of the CDV, who
is a CDV manager appointed by SIP (Section 3.09(c), Loan Agreement). The CDV
manager would be responsible, among other things, for preparing the area plan
(para 44) and submitting it to SIP after it is approved by the CDV Committee.
47.       Education.  Primary education would be extended to about 95% of the
eligible population in the selected areas by providing facilities where they
do not exist, optimizing use of existing ones (e.g. through multiple shifts),
and improving the quality of teachers and didactic material and methods.



- 14 -
Construction of new schools would be carried out by ICT where the facilities
can be accommodated in the CDVs, and by Instituto Colombiano de Construcciones
Escolares (ICCE) in all other cases. School facilities would also be used,
when available, for other programs such as adult literacy, training, and
recreational and cultural activities. Teaching materials developed with the
assistance of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany would be
provided to each school. All designs and equipment specifications conform to
ICCE's standards and the Ministry of Education's pedagogical norms, and are
satisfactory to the Bank. It is estimated that facilities would be provided
for an additional 22,000 students. Assurances were obtained regarding the
design of the proposed facilities (Section 3.01 and Part A(b)(i) of Schedule
2, Loan Agreement).
48.       Teachers in the areas included in the project would be offered two
training programs: a 60-hour course for all teachers in the areas, to famil-
iarize them with the new teaching equipment and generally to upgrade their
skills; and a 120-hour course for teachers who have not attended training
school or completed high school.
49.       Health.  The health and nutritional status of the areas's population,
especially of the young children and lactating mothers would be improved.
Currently, health services are largely non-existent in the areas, and where
they exist they are characterized by low capacity and heavy dependence on
an insufficient number of physicians. This component would be an extension of
the on-going National Health and Food and Nutrition Programs.
50.       The component would stress preventative (as well as curative) care;
delegation of functions to auxiliary personnel; relocation of ambulatory
medical services from hospitals to the health centers located in the CDVs;
and community participation. A team, composed of promotoras, i.e. trained
community health workers, would render basic health, nutrition and population
services through home visits. It is estimated that given the density of
population, each promotora could reach about 2,000 persons. There would be two
trained nurses for each four promotoras: one supporting and supervising the
outreach work of the promotoras, and the other assisting the physician and the
dentist who would work on a full-time basis in the health centers, and could
support up to four of the above described teams, to reach the entire population
of the catchment area. This would be the urban scheme for the National Health
Plan.
51.       The promotoras would be selected with the assistance of the community.
The largest reasonable degree of community participation would be sought to
ensure acceptance of the program, continued emphasis on preventative health
care, and, especially, to ensure financial support for the continuation of the
program. The provision of formal health care services to larger sectors of
the population would result in increased recurrent costs, even if average costs
are lowered by the delegation of functions to auxiliary staff. The organiza-
tion of the community would facilitate the introduction of health service
charges. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as agreed also on
the occasion of the nutrition project, a system of charges would be applied to
the health services rendered under the project to recover from the beneficia-
ries the equivalent of the cost of drugs and medicines provided, thereunder
(Section 4.06, Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
52.       Child and Family Care.  Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
(ICBF) would equip a basic facility for an integrated pre-school care center
(CAIP) in each CDV. Each CAIP would serve as a resource center for a community
outreach program; most of basic day care services would be decentralized to
home-based community-run units, so that CAIPs will only render services
requiring a higher degree of specialized professional care (which include care
for children who require specialized attention, a center for nutrition recuper-
ation, legal assistance to minors and women, and a family life education
center). Day-care services, performed by women who would be required to
register, would care for up to 10 children each. The women would receive
training and certain basic education and developmental equipment, and will
receive loans to enable them to improve their homes for purposes of these
services. Besides collecting the traditional fee from the mothers of the
children, the women would be paid a wage. One supervisor would assist each
10 groups of home day-care units. Bank loan proceeds would not be used to
finance this component because ICBF, which is financed from earmarked employer
contributions equal to 2% of all salaries paid, has enough resources to
finance this part of the program.
B. Employment and Productive Credit
53.       Vocational Training and Promotion.  There would be a full-time small
enterprise promoter in each area who, with the assistance of SENA's staff,
would be responsible for promoting cooperatives and other small-scale enter-
prises, assisting in their organization, and especially in enabling them to
obtain access to bank credit. This person would coordinate the training and
basic skills improvement services to be rendered by Servicio Nacional de
AprendizaJe (SENA) at the CDVs through its Mobile Training Program. Over
62,000 workers attended courses under this program throughout Colombia in
1976, which used more than 1,100 (almost 30%) of SENA's instructors. SENA is
competent and experienced in this field, and close coordination with the area
promoter would ensure that the program for each area is designed so as to meet
the particular needs of the community. SENA would deliver between three and
four thousand hours of training per CDV per annum, and it is expected that
26,000 people would be trained under this component. Besides upgrading of
technical skills, courses would be offered in accounting, management and
marketing in order to foster the creation and strengthening of community
enterprises. The area promoter would also assist in the organization and
development of community-owned savings and loan cooperatives, which would have
access to a cooperative credit program being provided by Banco Popular, a
Government-owned commercial bank, and would make loans not exceeding US$300
equivalent to their members for working capital and purchase of items such as
tools and construction materials.
54.       Small Enterprises Credit.  Credit would be made available by
Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), a publicly owned DFC which specializes
in lending to small- and medium-scale industry, to productive enterprises with
total assets not exceeding US$15,000 equivalent owned by residents of the
areas included in the project, and to community and cooperative enterprises



- 16 -
with total assets not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent, substantially owned by
area residents, to finance fixed assets and working capital requirements.
Enterprises with total assets exceeding these limits, including those which
after receiving credit under the project would surpass the limits, or which
belong to an industrial or business group with total assets above US$50,000
equivalent, would be referred to CFP's regular lines of credit, where the
appJicable interest rate is 24% per annum. Loans would bear interest at 18%
per annum, and would be repaid in not less than two years, including six months
of grace, in the case of working capital financing, and not less than four
years, including one year of grace, in the case of fixed asset financing
or a combination of both fixed assets and working capital. In view of the
receyit rate of inflation in Colombia (over 30% per annum) it is unlikely that
i n the early stages of disbursements, CFP's relending rate would be positive in
real terms. However, as the Government's stabilization effort continues to
rake hold the interest rate should gradually turn positive in real terms.
The proposed interest rate is Justified by the present marginal economic
viability of many of the target enterprises, due to their lack of capital, and
their need for assistance during the gestation period.
55.       CFP has developed streamlined appraisal and supervision procedures,
and is experienced in the financing of this very small-scale productive
sector, especially on account of the administration of a US$5 million USAID
loan it received for this purpose in 1975. The area promoters referred to in
paragraph 53 above will assist, with the collaboration of SENA's staff assigned
to the CDV, in subproject preparation and loan application, and would be
responsible for project promotion and technical assistance. In order to
ensure satisfactory progress, CFP, with SENA's support, would provide training
in project appraisal and supervision to the promoters and SENA's staff.
i6.       US$2 million equivalent of Bank loan proceeds would be made avail--
able to CFP by the Government as an equity contribution. At the time of the
Second Small-Scale Industry Project (approved in June 1977), assurances were
obtained that CFP's capital would be gradually increased by not less than
Col$225 million by the end of 1980. The proposed transfer of the Bank loan
proceeds is consistent with the goal of strengthening CFP's resource base, and
would be additional to the abovementioned agreed capital increase. The other
US$2 million equivalent for this credit program would be made available to CFP
by Banco Popular as a loan with interest at 18% per annum, repayable in 17
years including four years of grace. It is estimated that 1,200 to 1,500
entrepreneurs would receive financing under the program, and that about 3,800
new jobs would be created at an average cost of about US$1,050 each, which
compares quite favorably with the average cost of jobs created under Loan No.
1071-CO (Small-Scale Industry Project), which was US$5,100. Assurances were
obtained regarding the above described transfers and lending terms and condi-
tions (Section 3.01(h), and Schedules 6 and 7, Loan Agreement). Execution
of a contract for the loan by Banco Popular to CFP would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
C. Physical Improvements
57.       Water Supply and Sewerage.  US$12.4 million equivalent would be made
available through Instituto de Fomento Municipal (INSFOPAL) to the municipal
enterprises in charge of water supply and sewerage in the towns included
in the project, for distribution system in the target areas, as provided in
the plans referred to in paragraph 44 above. Priority would be given to water
supply, and it is estimated that 280,000 people would benefit from metered
connections. Engineering designs and provisions for additional water supply
facilities in each city would be reviewed to ensure that the distribution
network is extended only in cases where increased water supply is foreseen.
Assurances were obtained that no Bank loan proceeds would be withdrawn
on account of such works in each area, until the Bank is furnished satisfac-
tory studies of water sources and treatment facilities available, including
plans for financing any needed additional works (Schedule 1, para 4(d), Loan
Agreement).
58.       The US$5 million equivalent of Bank loan proceeds allocated to
this component and the equivalent of US$7.4 million to be provided by the
Government, would be transferred to INSFOPAL as an equity contribution. This
is justified in view of the very large requirements of the sector, for which
INSFOPAL has overall planning and financial responsibility. INSFOPAL, which
has received two Bank loans for intermediate-size cities and smaller towns
(some of which are included in the proposed project) is undergoing a reorga-
nization with the assistance of the Bank that will strengthen its overall
planning role and operational capabilities.
59.       40% of the financing made available by INSFOPAL to each enterprise
(aggregating US$5 million equivalent) would be as a 17-year loan, including
four years of grace, with interest at 12% per annum. An equal amount would
be made available as an equity contribution. The remainder (20%) would be
made available either as equity contribution or as a loan, or a combination
thereof, depending on the financial situation of each enterprise. INSFOPAL
would decide upon the financing-mix for each enterprise on the basis of
specific criteria agreed with the Bank. The enterprises would be required to
set their rates at such levels as to ensure full recovery of the operating and
investment costs, except that the Bank may agree that if the income level
of the population served by an enterprise is very low, less than the total
investment cost be recovered. For enterprises that have received financing
from INSFOPAL under either of the two loans made by the Bank, the provisions
contained in the existing agreements regarding level of revenues would be
maintained. In the case of all other enterprises, INSFOPAL and each enterprise
would agree to conditions satisfactory to the Bank on the revenue requirements,
before INSFOPAL makes funds available to such enterprise under the proposed
project. Furthermore, before extending financing, INSFOPAL would obtain
assurances that the enterprise would utilize the revenues originating from the
additional services resulting from the proposed project, to the extent they
are not needed to service its debt with INSFOPAL, for further water supply and
sewerage investments. The repayments made by the enterprises to INSFOPAL
would be used, until 6 years after the closing date, to finance water supply



- 18 -
and sewerage services in similar low-income urban areas of the country.
Assurances were obtained regarding the above arrangements (Sections 3.02, 4.07
and 4.08, and Schedule 7, Loan Agreement).
60.       Land Tenure Regularization.  US$1.7 million equivalent would be
provided by Instituto de Credito Territorial (ICT) to community groups and
individuals as loans with interest at 13.8% per annum and repayable in up to
15 years for expenditures related to transferring title to settlers, all in
the areas included in the project. It is expected that 31,000 households
would regularize their land tenure.
61.       Home Improvement.  ICT would provide US$13.1 million equivalent in
supervised credits to the residents of the project areas for home expansion
and improvement, and particularly to install the sanitary facilities made
possible by the water supply and sewerage component. Most of the work would be
done through "self-help," and intensive technical assistance would be supplied
free of charge. It is estimated that about 18,500 people would receive such
credits. ICT will assign a team of one architect, two social workers, and a
loan officer to work in each of the project areas. These credits would carry
interest at 14% per annum, would be repayable in up to 15 years, and would
finance up to 90% of total cost. ICT will also, parallel to the project, make
credit available to municipalities and community action groups for neighbor-
hood improvements such as paving of roads and footpaths, construction of
bridges over canals, flood and erosion control, and recreation areas.
62.       Sites and Services.  7,300 new sites would be developed by ICT, at a
cost including contingencies estimated at US$8.7 million equivalent, mainly to
resettle about 6,600 households (7Z of the total) whose houses would have to be
eliminated in order to carry out neighborhood improvements. A credit program
would be undertaken by ICT to finance the purchase of the following alternative
solutions with loans repayable in up to 15 years, with interest at 13.8% per
annum: (i) a basic serviced lot with no construction, with an average cost of
US$625 equivalent, for families earning up to US$350 equivalent per annum;
(ii) a serviced lot with a sanitary core, with an average cost of US$1,285
equivalent, for families earning up to US$850 per annum; and (iii) a unit
consisting of a serviced lot, sanitary core, and up to 40 m2 of enclosed
construction, with an average cost of US$1,834, for families earning up to
US$1,100 per annum. It is estimated that 30% will opt for solution (i), 60%
for (ii) and 10% for (iii). The purchase price would be determined on the
basis of criteria agreed upon with the Bank to ensure that they reflect the
full cost plus about 10% to cover ICT's administrative cost.
63.       The proposed interest rates for ICT's onlending are likely to be
negative in real terms during the early part of the commitment period. For
the reasons pointed out in paragraph 54 above, however, these are expected
to gradually become positive. The interest rate subsidy in the early part of
the commitment period is justified in view of the low income of the target
beneficiaries, most of which are at present below the poverty line.



- 19 -
64.       Of the total cost of the last three components (i.e., land tenure
regularization, home and neighborhood improvement, and new housing) estimated
at US$23.5 million equivalent, ICT would provide US$12.6 million from its own
funds, while the equivalent of US$10.9 million of proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan would be transferred to ICT in pesos as a Government equity contri-
bution, to finance the last two components. This is justified in light of the
need to capitalize ICT and, in this manner, be able to take care of the very
large requirement for low-income housing in the country. ICT would use the
repayments of the credits made under the project, until 6 years after the
closing date, to finance similar projects. Assurances were obtained regarding
the features of these three components and ICT's use of such funds (Sections
3.01(c) and 4.08(b), and Schedule 6, Loan Agreement).
Organization and Management
65.       Secretaria de Integracion Popular (SIP) would be responsible for the
overall implementation of the project, and especially for coordinating the
activities of the various Government ministries and agencies, municipalities,
and regional and municipal enterprises which will participate in its execu-
tion. SIP is part of the Office of the Presidency, and therefore reports
directly to the President of the Republic. Although SIP is relatively new, it
has adequate staff. Its structure and operations have benefitted from a
program of technical assistance provided by the Government of The Netherlands.
66.       General guidance would be provided by a National Council composed of
representatives of the Department of National Planning, the Ministry of
Health, the Ministry of Education, ICBF, SENA, ICT, INSFOPAL, and CFP (Section
3.09, Loan Agreement).
67.       On the basis of the plans for each area (para 44 above), which
would be prepared with SIP's assistance, and approved by the CDV coordinating
committees (para 46 above), SIP would prepare annual plans and budgets for the
implementation of the project, which will be submitted to the National Council
for approval. SIP would then coordinate the activities of all the agencies
involved to ensure the efficient and timely execution of the plans. Such
coordination would be ensured each municipality through a local council headed
by a representative of SIP and composed also by the chief of the municipal or
departmental planning and the regional chief of each of the Ministries and
agencies involved. The participation of each agency in the project would be
governed by an agreement to be entered into between each of them and SIP, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Conclusion of such agreements
would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Sections
3.01(d) and (e) and 6.01(b) and (c), Loan Agreement).
68.       SIP would also oversee that the agencies involved provide competent
staff in adequate numbers to render the services contemplated in the project.
Assurances were obtained regarding this, and on adequate maintenance of all
facilities included in the project (Section 3.08 and 4.05, Loan Agreement).
69.       SIP will set up a training program to upgrade the skills of selected
professionals involved in planning and execution of the project. Assurances
were obtained that such program would be carried out in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (Sections 3.01 and Part E of Schedule 2, Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
70.       SIP would also be responsible for monitoring the execution of the
project, both at local and national levels. Assurances were obtained that
such monitoring, and the continuous evaluation of the progress and results of
the project, would be performed under terms satisfactory to the Bank (Sections
3.06(b) and (c), Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
71.       Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$150,000
or more will be let under international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Other goods would be procured in accordance with the Govern-
ment's competitive bidding procedures, which are considered to be satisfactory.
Civil works contracts would be let under local competitive bidding procedures.
Civil works estimated to cost less than US$15,000 equivalent may be procured
on a negotiated basis or by force account, and, in the case of CDV and class-
room construction, they may be carried out by force account with the prior
approval of the Bank even if their estimated cost exceeds US$15,000 equivalent.
Suppliers of goods manufactured in Colombia and procured through international
competitive bidding procedures would receive a margin of preference of 15% on
the value of import duties, whichever is lower.
72.       The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a
four-year period, against (i) 100% of the foreign expenditures for imported
equipment; (ii) 40% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods;
(iii) 40% of the cost of imported goods purchased in Colombia; (iv) 40% of
civil works expenditures; (v) 50% of amounts disbursed by CFP under the
program of production credit; (vi) 50% of the amounts disbursed by ICT under
credits for home improvements and sites and services; and (vii) 50% of the
costs of training and technical assistance.
Benefits and Risks
73.       The project would benefit 550,000 people, four-fifths of whom have
a per capita income of less than one-third the national average. The benefits
derived from the social services component are well-known and do not lend
themselves to quantification. Education will enable the children to reach
employment age with a better preparedness for obtaining employment. The
health component would, besides offering the usual benefits derived from better
and more intensive care, such as increased worker productivity, contribute to
more efficient health services and to lower costs. The child and family care
component would improve the care given to children under school age, precisely
at the time when their capacity to develop is the greatest, while freeing the
mothers to supplement family incomes. This component would also support the
family counseling services which have assisted the improvement of population
planning in Colombia.
74.       The production services component would bring effective opportunities
of employment to the beneficiaires. While some of the beneficiaries would
seek employment outside the areas where they live, the great bulk of the
beneficiaries would benefit from promoting, organizing and financing employ-
ment opportunities in the project zones. The production services component



- 21 -
would address specifically the needs of each area, concentrating on the very
bottom of small-scale productive units.
75.       The physical improvements component would have an immediate impact
on the quality of life of the target beneficiaries, bringing it up to stan-
darfd' closet to'those-t'f higher-i.ncome groups.  Calculation of the economic
return of a multi-city, poverty neighborhood project requires strong, often
arbitrary assumptions, since it is extremely difficult to assess the increase
in value derived from the improvements. The internal economic rate of return
of the water supply and sewerage component is estimated at 10%. The return on
the land tenure regularization component cannot be quantified. Such regulari-
zation, however, is apre-condition to enable the householder to gain access
to credit and thus increase its capacity to invest in the improvement of his
home. The rate of return of the housing improvement and sites and services
components,-which -account for 56% of total project costs, is estimated at 10%.
76.       An important benefit would be derived from the monitoring and conti-
nuous evaluation included in the project. This feature would enable the
Government to refine its national urban development program and gradually
increased effectiveness at cost levels sufficiently low to enable expansion of
the program's coverage.
77.       The project is subject to risks derived from its uniquely comprehen-
sive nature. The coordination of the various entities involved will not
be an easy task to accomplish. Coordination efforts would be mounted at tha
local as well as national levels (see paras 46, 66, and 64) and it is expected
that the necessary degree of coordination will be attained. SIP is in no
hierarchical position to force the Ministries and agencies involved to assign
their resources in a particular way, but through the Presidency of the Republic
is expected to accomplish this. On the other hand, SIP's very own status
constitutes a risk by itself, since the influence of a Presidential office may
be different under future administrations. This, however, is a reasonable
risk in the light of the general acceptance of the program by all political
sectors.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
79.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be the signing of the agree-
ment providing for Banco Popular's loan to CFP (para 56) and of the agree-
ments between the Government and the other project entities and between SIP
and the other participating ministries (para 67). Disbursements for expenses
in each zone would be conditioned upon the completion of a development plan
for the particular zone which has been approved by the Bank (para 44).



- 22 -
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
bY E. t% ^  W% $L
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 14, 1978



MEX I
COLOMBIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               Page 1 4f 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
~--------------                                 COLOMBIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1139.9                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     223.9                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE           TURKEY.        BRAZIL         MEXICO***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    210.0*   350.0*    640.0*/a             500.0*      550.0*      690.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           15.4      20.6       24.2/a             35.6        92.8        50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       14.0      18.0       21.0               46.0        11.0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        71.0      93.0      108.0/a             65.0        49.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.1**   44.3**    40.6**               40.6        38.4        43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          14.7       11.0       8                 14.4         9.9        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       100.0/a    70.0/a       ,,              153.0/a    110.0         68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       54.7      58.5       60.9               54.4f       59.4        62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2        3.2       3.1                2.6/b.C    2.6          3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)              3
TOTAL                                 3.2       2.9        2.8                2.5         2.9         3.4
URBAN                                 6.0/b      5.5/b    4.6                 4.9/d       5.0         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          53.0/c    60.0       70.0 /b             38.7       56.0        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       46 6/C    46.6       44.1               41.7        42.0        46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50 S4      O 50.4    52.7               54.0        55.0        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.0w      3.0       3.2                4.3         3.0         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0/c      1.0       0.9                 0.9        0.8         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               I.87E      1.6/c     1.6/c               1.1/e      1.5         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          0.5     306.9      955.1                  ..      250.0        55.5
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..      31.0                8.2         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         5100.0/C  6200.0    6800.0             14Soo.O/f  29400.0    13000.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         47,0/c    39.0         ..               67.0        40.4        45.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)           8.0/d e   7.0       10.2/d               4.6/       7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PR3VATE lNCOME PEC D By-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            41.-2 e   31.9tM   27.2/i               32.8/h      35.0/a      2t.9
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            67.7/c f 60.1/d   54.4/j                60.6/h      62.0/a      58.3
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             2         35 a,    5.2A                 2.9/h       3.0 a       3.4
___/_< 10.1~   14.3/i,               9. 4L     lO.O/a      10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_____________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..      80.0/e              53.0       45.0        37.1
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..       0.2/e               0.9         1.5        0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             2400.0    2110.0    2100.0/f            2250.0      1910.0      1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3520.0j        .,    1450.0 7T          1770.0/i   3220.0/b   162o0o/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           560.0     430.0      470.07w             500.O      260.0       960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         94.0       97.0      97.0/g             110.0      109.0       114.0/b
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              50.0      51.0       51.07jj            78.0        64.0        65.o
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         28.0/h    29.0/e       ..               22.0.       39.0        28.0/c
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            16.3        8.4         .,               14.7/k        .         9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       77.0     100.0      106.0              109.0        87.0       104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     12.0      23.0       36.0               28.0          ..        22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0      11.0       11.0               11.0        11.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     31.0/l    20.0       17.0               14.0        17.0        24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  .-       73.0      74.0/f              55.0/4     64.0        76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..         ..                1.9         1.0        2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                      59,0,cj    .           ,                64.0        73.0/c      61.o/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                          -           -
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 47.0/c       ..        ..               41.0        48.0        59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    8.0/c       ..        ..                18.0        8.0        28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        139.0      105.0     117.0                89.0       60.0       276.o
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOu POP)           7.0       11.0      15.0                 4.0       25.0        24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          244.0/e  414.0       599.0               247.0      491.0       567.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               2.4        2.7       2.1                 0;7        2.7         3.2
---------------------------------------------------------- - ---------     __-- _-_------- _- - ------------------- -
SEE NOtES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



MiLNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, dete  o  1960 refer to any peer between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 sod 1970, sod for Moot
Re.o .. otietat  berweno 1973 ned 1975.
lNPiper capita dote ore base.d ton rho World Hank Atlas methodology (1974-76 baste).
0*OffIcia  esimate  booed on c-hrtin ..so  trade birth rote for 1960 as 39.0, ovrge  rinds birth rtat  far 1961-70 a
360adfr 1971-74 an 31.0.
500  Macio  has been selected as an objeotive coun.try b.o.u.. Colombia Is sow  in the stogo of nuon-it  devlo.pment.that.Wontnwa
In ten fears ago.  Herb o,nun.trie  aim at A GDP growth rate of about 7 percent and at a substantial reduotion of  seploysnt.
COLONHA      1960    ft  Registered only;    lb  1951-6i;    Ic  1964;    ILd  Bgogor  only;    In  1963;                /f  icono ~icolly
active pouaio;            &  1965;    lb  1961-63;        /i  Total se..ondary includes reacher r.osinig at the
third1leve;    /,j Water piped in-de.
1970    /s  Race base.d on banal1 permits;          b  1964-70;    Ic  Ratio of poaltcander 15 sod 69 and ovr to total
lahor farce;    /d  Economically active popolatino;           to  1964-66.
P93ST RECENT ESTIMATE:    7.5  1976;    /b   1977;    Ic  ictin of populatio  n-d-r 15 and 65 end over r  total labor force;
/d  March 1837, average unoeploy.ert rter  In seven 1-go-r ctiton;    /e  1971;
7/0  1972;    ft  1970-74  /vree;         l   1969-71 sverag4e  /i 1974.
TURKEY     1970    ta  1967;    lb  Include 17 eastern prnviccea;             Ic  1965-67;    Id  1965-70;    I   Ratio of popnlstino under
15 and 65 end over to labor 13 years  nd over;_  If  11 yearn and ovr, enldseployed;    I.&  Registered
onl y;     hD. ...loyeblo Income;    Ii  Inclndig  . usiscat rooc  ad aidwive;                 /j  1964-64i;    lk  1967-68;
/1  Persons elm years  and ever who tell thcese  tobers that they can read and write.
806201     1970    Is  Econnaically active population;   lb  Hospital personcel;               /c  Inside only.
MEXICO     1970    la  lacludirg ass istterrs;              lb  1969-71 average;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Iaside only.
R1l, January 31, 1976
DEFIITIfONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
land era  (t,henk, )u' Prlrlan                                                                                r.arion pacoo  - Popul.ier- dIvided by anther of preoticlag
Ttl-Ttlsrf ace sten  omprising lend ares sod ilalsd waters,                            sle and female gradna1 toeres         rlai-d' or "certified  nurses,. and
Mo.o   soar recent es timer  of agricult rura  are  nna temporarily or peeman               etiryposrne I uith teainig orsprla.
aes tly One crps, pastures, marker b kiceho  gardens or tn lie fallow.                      PoruIetino one h-potta1 bed - Papulatica divded by tsb-r of boepiel1 beds
evilable In public sad private general and spoolaliod hospital sad
lOP see cota    M0  - ooP Per .- Pita  sti.otna at rorteat asrkt prices,                        rehabiliutaiioaaooro         ldes aura org hoen  ond o.ttbliolno.ate  for
celculacodl by seas cevriamrted as World Hash Atles (1973-75 basis);                          c-otodia1 nad preu...cive .ate.
1960; 1970 sad 1975 dare.                                                                  Per cenr  onl   f -a1-tlo  f  of ionremnts) - Competed fees esergy
ao.lualno  of ne  fond snplIea sesilable Is  -ntte, per as.pita per day;
Ponisc    sad viral statistic,                                                               avilebla soPplios coprise d-nstir produrrion, imports Seas esports , and
Poenlte  (mi.d-veer millio)       m  ofJl  frr    f act avilbe,lengeeans  Is acki; se  supplies sec lde came.l  oe-d, seeds,  tociriro  used
of too end- year matmte;    0, 1970 emd 1975 dare.                                            In fend proccaiag and lemems Is diateibutiom; reqoiromats wors estimated
by FAO ba...d -s phyislolgitl seeds far come  actlcity and hslth conid-
FPselaniom denity - see cese  ko - Nid-yssr ppopstiat     pen eqmse  kl_tafr                    -nleg aLrs    ta1 tmersatane, beS teighst., age and sen dlstrtbtits   of
(1o0 Isoas) eftta rea.                                                                       peplatism, end  ll1wiag 15 Efee wear  at household leve.
Ppeplargec density -  a a      re lee of saris, iced - Cpt.srd as chars forPrsie  aeyo  me alsfm                                   see aY) - Pretai  restart of Pee capita
agtolurl  ad onty.                                                                     -ts  supl f food pe  do;tnt supply, of fined is dafies  as che-; -egates-
sects foeal  -otries osctebliebed by LOSDA Economic Researoh Sanrioss
Vital tstsistlca                                                                                 rvd   o   ntinei    aow-on of 60 Srmes of Itota  p-actsi pot   ,,er
Crude birth rate pre tbawsasd. -ersee   - -anua  live births per thens.and of20 gr-s  of animal sod pulse protein, of ohiob 10 geese should be animal
mid-year popultion; ten-year -sr -tlest  averges ending On 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these standards are lone then thons of 75 gram  of total pincers
end fie-Yase average ending In 19,75 for mt eat rece t eStan..end 23 gram   of sninal protein as                                       -vrago for rho woeld, propoend by FuAD
Crude deth rate ear rhoranod avrag    Annual deaths poe thousand of mid-year                    In ths Third World Pond Snevy.
PoPo1ltci; ten-year sithneti   avraeseding In 1960 end 1970 and fire-                      Pro ievotiaulyfman alnd rule   - Prroim  suPply of food
year  verae endng i  197  for t -e0 eet estimate.                                     doeivd tee  .seResdpissi  rm    e  da.
Infant =ortait rt  Coe)-Ana                  the of imfuts endee ens year of age              Death rete (/tho)ne - S- 1-4  Annel dotspoe tyoosnd In age group 1-4
Pertouad Ivo. births,                                                                         pot,t   hldrec Is this age group; soggeatedsoe  indicator of
liea etasova I birth (yes) 1-.Average seshe  of years of lifc rmaiming at                  not' ctin
birth;  -cuily fiv-ys  ave.rageeding In 1960, 1970 end 1975 fee develop-
fag oo"tntea                                                                                Educantim
tense toptdutios rare - Average mushr of lien deoghtera a  oa   ill boar                      AdiJtate enoletras-elsr  ool-irlmn   fal*                                 spe-
ls hert ma taS rproductiv    eidi   h   meiso   rsn   g-psfccn eo  prity shool-agep papultiom; iolnde  bhildron egd 6-li year
isetliy  ate; sosly flv-y-  averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjetePd foe dtffeent lengths ofiprimar  eduatiom; for cenarrise slob
far developing counirro.                                                                      _niv_re   edu..rton, comar1 -  say .....ed loot ston" som  pupils are bal1
Perolact!m growth rate (%5 - ntal.  - C opossud anum  grenth rates of mid-pose                  or above the official schl ego..
Population for 09901-601, 1960-79 so1d 1970-75.                                             Adjustd enole        t ttin-e      s .r shool1 - Cenputed  bsshv; secondary
PoesIatln growth rate ft          ohr -Coputed like growth rsto of totaledoatien requires at.leatfor punts of approved primary instruti.n;
Ppepelatino;,diffe,rsor defleftins of orbas areas nay affmct  o.-parbiliry of                 providon general, u-otione1 or teacher training  im-tn-tiens foe pupile
dat  amn  cotanries                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of ago; cerrespendeos corss  e  generally enclded,
Urbas eapultrie  (3 of total) -  eRtie o.f  nbon to tote1 pop.utiaio; different               Ycare ofahoiaoie   firs~t.end secend 1-1el) - Total years of
defisition   of  rbs areas may aff.rt coparability of data ennog   -raunem.                   shooin;  tscnaylevel , v catina  insrution may ho partially or
numPletoly sooluded.
Ass s,tructure, (preoet) - Children .(0-14 years.), wrigge(15-64 yeats),                      Vucutto-a1 ro-1i-t PI of -c"dary) - Onusuienl inati tutiens inolrde
so retin   (63 years and over) as     ..s rctae  ofmId-year populatin                      -hbocral, inusralorober progrss which operter  indeperdoetly nes
ASo derende..y ratio  - latin of popolatten under 13 and 65 and see  to those                   deparmtoout  fiscnayinttto
ofae  1_5 through 64.                                                                    Adult litersovyaro C)-Literate  dfu1te (able te read and write) as pe-
Economic deperdeno r  tn   Rtia ef popo-iare  enAct 15 ard 65 end ove  to                       onstage of total adult1 population  g0d 15 poses od over.
the laber foc  in ageg'rupo  15-64 years.
of obirrth-c-nsel dovtues endersu...s fc.     na.tional family elsin   penr=                 eron er room (urban) - Average nombe of peron  per roes In eonpied
since inropries.                                                      conven~~~~~~~-.tiona  dwellings Is urban arose; dwellings omolude  o-smsn
Paniy nannno-arreft  f mrrid Pws) - Prceantage  of married woe  of                    structure  ead unoccupied parts.
child-hearing ago (15-64 yeses) who use birth-onntrn1 d-vio.. to allI-srimd                 toupied duIIlli, nitbhut cired watr (3) - Oto-piod cov-etenat1 dwellings
omrin ant  ego group.                                                                      ituba  ad_. rur larasithout inside or outside piped corer facilities
asporcontogs of all occuPied  dwligs
E.ploymeot                                                                                    Accous to els-oriorty (I of oI duellimie   - Convent.Ioa  doelioS. with
Tstsl Saber force fibee-sd) - Enonoice11y autiv- Per.-ne, inoluding senod                       olcteOnity In Irinig qucertse  as petro.t of total dwellings in urha  and
farces sad u..-PInyd but en dludig h-usw-v-, stdents, er..; definitions                         -1s aes
In _ariona tonotries are sot naparabte.                                                     Rural dwellin.gs contourd te sleotririty (3) - Computed ae shov  fno rura
Labor forte In  Irioult... It) -Agrioultora  1aber~ fares(is fanning, forestry,                 doellirge oly.
huntin  sod fishing) as p-rcerse  of to.tal lborfen.-
2.npcydf   of laerface    U- O playd are usolly defined as persons ah                   Consumptio
see abesdwligto tak  aJo, out of a Job a   give  day, romatned stt                         Radio recevr-      oeteWe)-Altps  frciesfrrdobodat
of a Jnb, and aesbing anek foes. opscified minimum parSed nor ecessding 000                   to general pblito par thousand of population; emidsuitoc             d rciver
week;mY stbe comparable between   -rensi   due in different definition                        In toutries and in pears sh.a  registratiam  af radio  cts wasIn  fe
-fnoPin       n  sen.orac  of dens, e.g., ompleynet offioe statistics, ea_pla               date for rennt posts may nor hecoparable since cot conre                bolished
couys   epulsery usaploYmest in.orare...                                                 liners tog.
Paomor a erfn  thou eon) - Passeger cam  comprise moist ears searing
Se-m dietribstien  - Percentage of private mouse (both in  . cahed bird)                        less the  eight parson; enclodas ombula..n... heresed military
ractrd by ricbeer 31, richest l0t, poorest lot, end pooveetZAt  f boe-.v.-oes
holds                                                                                       ilsoriotr  (khit/y ner ..P) - AnnuaI ceneesptien af induerria1,  -atisl,
publi  and price. is1-trinitiy In kilowatt benr  perc .pits, generally
Dietribotien of land  -wnceie - P-eec.stages of land ownd by wealthiest otbased on d. production data, witbnt allowance fee lomae Is grids hot allo--
and poorest Si7t of land  Swet.                                                                ig foe iports and emperts of electricity.
Newsprin1t (ho/y1r nr aY      Per tapirs annua  ceneoptiam  In kilogram
Health and Nutrition                                                                              eratdfo   domestic produacito  plus net imports of  -ovsptm.
Populatien nor ehveicia - Populatiam divided by stabet of practic ing
phystotana quslitied from a ndita1 school  ti oiv-rity leve.



ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DYEEWPRNET DATA
(Is oillios of US dollar)
Actual                      Estimated          Pro1.ed                   Average Ansal G-rowth Rate,              A. Percent of GDP
1967-69
Average    1974         1975        1976        1977         1978         1982         (1967-69)-74   1975-77   1978-82         1974       1977       1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTST                                         1976 Prices sod Eachacce Rates
Gcoss Domestic Product                    9,785      14,262      14.893      15,565      16,406        17,406      22,079              6.5           5.0        6.1      100.0      100.0      100.0
Gains free Terms of Trade (+)              -751        -403        -455        -            608           264         102              _              _          _         2.8        3.7        0.5
Gross Domestic I.co                        7         13,859      14,438      15,565      17,0 t        17,670      22,181              7.4                      5.8       97.2      103.7      T5O5
Import (TocI. NEI)                        1,491       2,306       2,152       2,318       2,939         3,365       4,496             7.5           16.9        7.5       16.2       17.9       20.4
Exports   "      (Import Caps-ity)        1.419       2,066       2.297       2.892       3 501        3O199        4,237             6.5           23.5        7.3       14.5       21.3       19.2
Resorc   Gap                                 72         240        -145        -574          6T166                    239               -             -          -         1.7       '2.4        1.2
Cocn-eptio- Expeoditoreo                  7,445      10,877      11,663      11,812      12,955        13,816      17,223             6.5            5.4        5.7       76.3       79.0       78.0
a           Investment      "    (Incl. Stocks)       1,661       3,222       2,630       3,179       3,497         4,020       5,217             11.7          15.3        6.7       22.6       21.3       23.6
Doanstic Savins8                          1,589       2,982       2,775       3,753       4,059         3,854       4,958            11.1           20.9        6.5       20.9       24.7       22.5
NatIonal Savings                          1,865       2,834       2,544       3,531       3,969         3,742       4,776             7.2           24.9        6.3       19.9       24.2       21.6
NIERCdANDISE TRADE                                         Annual Data at Torrent Prices                         _                                                           Aa Peccect of Total
Capital Goods                             290         525         510         575         724           895      1,455             10.4          19.1       12.9       34,7       30.5       27.5
Intermediate Goods (Esod. FPols)         254         813          705         803       1,193         1,475      2,481             21.4          30.0       13.8       53.8       50.3       46.9
Fuels sod Related Materials                 3           6          14          73         153          189         766             12.3            -        41.8        0.4        6.4       14.5
of %ich:  Petroleom                     (-)        (-)          (14)        (73)       (153)        (189)       (766)              -             -       (41.8)       (-)       (6.4)     (14.5)
Tonuoantion Goode                          61         167         166         214         304          376         591             18.3          35.3       12.0       11.1       12.8       11.2
Total Merchandise Imports (FOB)           0        1,511       1,391        1,665       2,374        2,935       5.293             16.4          30.5       15.9      100.0      100.0      100.0
Exports
Primary froduc-t  (Emcl. Fools)           418       1,001       1,202       1,776       2,484        2,490       3.971             15.7          43.8       12.4       67.0       80.2       74.9
of which:  Coffee                      (341)       (662)       (672)    (1,316)      (1,753)      (1,360)    (1,431)            (11.7)        (61.5)      (1.3)        -       (56.6)        -
Fuels and Related Yaterialo                71          95          87          87           93          90         173              5.0           3.4       17.7        6.4       -3.0        3.3
of  thich:  Petroleum                   (56)         (4)        (-)         (-)         (0) (-)                  ()                -             -          -        (8.3)       (-)        (.)
M-nufeotured Goods                        117         398         428         515         520          458       1,160             22.5          10.2       26.1       26.6       16.8       21.8
Total Mercha-dise Exports (FOR)           606      1,494        1,717       2,378       3,097        3,038       5,304             16.2          34.3       113'    T00.0        100.0      100.0
Merchandise Trade Iodicos
Export Prito Inde-                       21.2        72.4        74.5      100.0        136.6        129.8       160.0
Imiport Price  Onad.                    34.0        90.0         93.0       100.8       107.7        116.3       154.9
Tncas of Trade Index                    62.3         80.4        80.1       100.0       126.8        111.6       103.3
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR (Faster Coat)             Annual SDOL  at 1976 - PFi-eu and Enchuo-e Sates                                   Avnrace Annual Growth Raten               Au Perceut of Total
Agriculture                            2,951       3,939       4,181       4,244        4,328        4,458       5.017              4.9           1.7        3.0       29.7       28.4       24.7
Induotry *nd Mining                    2,444       4,013       4,087       4,210       4,505         4,823       6,299              8.6           5.0        6.9       30.3       29.5       31.0
Service                                4,439       5.305       5,641       6.028        6,425       6.864        8,997              3.0           6.7        7.0       40.0       42,1       44.3
Total                                  9,834      13,257      13,909      14,482      15,258        16,145      20.313              5.1           4.7        5.9      100.0      100.0      100.0
PU3LIC  FINANCE                                           Ansael Data at Current Prices                                                                                       As Percent of GDP
(TCetral GavarsDnet5
Turrent Recoipte                       413       1,194       1,402       1,589       2,018         2,220      3,308             19.4          20.0        10.5        9,5       10.0        9.3
Current Expenditures                   262         640          702        821         919           999       1.637            16.0          14j4       13.1         5.1       4.5         4.6
Budgstary Savings                      151          554         700        768        1,099        1,221       1,671             24.2         25.3         8.2        4,4        5          T7.
Other Public Sector Savings            434          150         394         334         418          481         925           -16.2            3.0       17.8        1.2        2.1        2.6
Public Sector ISoeetnest               612       1,189       1,382       1,496       1,550         1,975       3,453            11.7            5.9      15.0         9,4        7.7        9.7
SELECTED INDICATORS                                            1965-70    1974-77    1978-82                           DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR                      As 7. of Total
INVESTMENT PROGRAM ASD FINANCING         Actual        Planned
(Average for Period Shown)                                                                                                                                     1975-76      1977-82
A-ereDe ICOR (Bssed uo Piaed Icvescsnt)                       3.17       3.77        3.36
Ixport Elasticity                                            1.16        1.83        1.25                          Social Settors                             33.5         38.2
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                               0.20        0,34        0.24                          Agriculture                                10.2         12.0
Merginal N tional Savings Rate                               0.14        0.35        0.23                          Industry and Minig                          9.5           9.7
Power                                       6.5          9.5
Tranpot and Co,nuiatioun                   20.2         14. 8
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPIIT PER WORKER                               Total Labor Forte                                     Ontphor   *    ommumcins                   20.1          15.8
In Meillioos             S of Total           Growth Rate                 Total Eopenditures                        100.0         100.0
1964        1973         1964        1973         1964-73
Agriculture                          2.427       2.057          47.3        30.2          -1.9                     FINANCING
Industry                             0.958       1.212          18.7        17.8           2.7
Service                              1.749       3,542          34.0        52.0           8.2                     Public Sector Sa-ings                      62.7         68.5
Total                                5.134       6.812        100.0        100.0           3.2                     External S-urtn                            15.1         24.6
Other                                      22.2          6.9
Value Added pet Worker (1976 Prices and Eschange Rates)                      Total Financing                           100.0        100.0
in US Dollars           7. f Aver-ce           Growth Rate
1964        1973         1964        1973         1964-73
Agricolture                             903      1,517          66.4        88.4           5.9
Industry                             1,837       2,552        135.2        148.6           3.7
Serv_ce                              1,730       1.546        127,3         90.0          -1.2
Total                                1,359       1,717        100.0       100.0            2.6



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual                                           Estismated                        Pr.jected
1971         1972          1973          1974          1975           1976           1977          1978          1979          1980          1981         1982
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (Incl. NFS)                            972        1,205         1,544         1,861         2,137          2,892          3,711         3,720        4,301         4,903         5,687         6.563
Imports (Intcl. NF8)                        1285          1,232         1,422         2,077         2.002          2,318          3_165         3,913        4,551          5,262         6,056        6,964
Resource Balance (X-M)                        -313           -27          122          -216           135            574            546          -193          -250          -359          -369          -401
Factor Services                               -169          -191         -203          -173          -243           -293           -209          -256          -331          -386          -426          -468
Profits                                     (-71)        (-70)         (-70)         (-55)         (-68)          (-73)         (-100)        (-117)       (-137)         (-164)        (-172)       (-181)
Other                                       (-98)       (-121)        (-133)        (-118)        (-175)         (-220)         (-109)        (-139)        (-194)        (-222)        (-254)        (-287)
Current Transfers (Net)                         28            28            26           39            28             71            112           125           138           152           167           184
Balance on Current Accounts                      4         -190           -55          -350           -80            352                         -324          -443          -593          .628          -685
Private Direct Investment                       40            17            23           35            35             49             32            39            57            65            74            83
Public M&LT Lo-ns
Disbursements                                222          354           412           380           383            250            277           480           601           783           849           941
-Repayments                                   -92          -96          -132          -211          -134           -150           -181          -195         -215           -255          -295          -339
Net Disbursements                            130          258           280           169           249            100             96           285           386           528           554           602
other M&LT Loans
Disbursements                                145          139            60            50            76            '25            -             -             -             -             -             -
-Repayments                                   -79           -84          -58           -58           -87           -168
Net Di.sh,rsements                            66            55             2           -8           -11            -43
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                    216            39          -78            63           -98            176            109
Change in Net Reser-e-                           2          -179         -172            91           -95           -634           -686
(- - Increase)
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                                                                                         Actual
official Grants & Grast-like                   -             -             -            -             -              -           DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                  1971         1972         1973         1974         1975          1976
Public Debt
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                                                 Outstanding & Disbused               1,385.6      1,650.0    1,936.0        2,117,4     2,351,2       2,449.2
TBRD                                         153            74          162              8           88             80           Interest on Public Debt                49.2         57.9         78.5        103.7       113. 5        125.4
IDA                                          -             --                         -                            -             Repayments on  "    "                  92.0         95.9        131.9        211.4       134.7         150.0
Other Multilateral                            42            41            29            64          -               62           Total Public Debt Service             141.2        153.8        210.4        315,1        248.2         275.4
Governments                                  110           114            67            55           65            132           Other Debt Service (Net)              133.1        155.1        126.6        118.6        108.0         160.0
Suppliers                                     35            37            31           45             74            44           Total Debt Service (Net)              274.3        308.9        337.0        433.7        356.2         435.4
Private Banks                                 38            84          190            58           163            170
Bonds                                        -            -              45           -             -              -           Burden on Export Earnings (7.)
Public Loans n.e.i.                          _               8             1            4             1
Total Public M&LT Loans                        378           358           525           234          391            488             tblic Debt Service                    14.5         02.7        13.6         16.9         11.6           9.5
Total Debt Service                     28.2         25.6        21.8         23.3         16.7          15.1
Total Debt Service Plus
Foreign Invest. Incounu              35.3        31.6         26.5         26.6         19.9          17.6
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                           Outstanding o  12/30/76
(Repayable in Foreign Currency)           Disbursed only              Percent                                                      Avertage Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                    671.6                   27.4
IDA                                            22.3                    0.9                                                          Interest as E, Prior Year DO&D          3.9          4.2          4.8         5.3           5.4          5.3
Other Mutilateral                            158.4                    6.5                                                         Amorti.ation as % Prior Year
Govern-ents                                   935.6                   38.2                                                            DO&D                                  7.4          6.9          8.0        10.9           6.4          6.4
Suppliers                                     183.4                    7.5
Private Banks                                 395.2                   16.1                                                       IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed               390.8       453.4        504.5        561.7        633.5         671.6
Bonds                                          50.4                    2.1                                                       IBRD as 2. Public Debt O&D                28.2         27.5        26.1         26.5         26.9          27.4
Public Debts n.e.i.                            32.3                    1.3                                                       IBRD as. %           "   Service          29.4         30.9         28.9        23.6         32.3          25.8
Total Public M&LT Loans                     2,449.2                  100.0                                                       IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed                 19.4         20.9         23.0        22.8         22.5          22.3
IDA as 7. Public Debt O&D                 1.4          1.3          1.2          1.1          1.0          0.9
IDA as 7. %             Service           0.2          0.3          0.2          -            0.2          0.1



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1978)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                                718.0      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                          Roads             32.0                3.9
681     1970  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                52.3                 .2
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply       2.0                 .3
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcaatarillado de Bogota       Water Supply      88.0               18.7
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                1.5
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       9.1                3.5
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                56.0               16.9
903     1973  Banco de la Republica             Industry          60.0                2.8
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2               12.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways          25.0                 .9
971     1974  Colombia                          Pre-Investment
Studies          8.0               4.9
1071    1975  Banco de la Republica             Industry           5.5                 .5
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0               21.1
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                 2.9
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                13.2
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0               19.S
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             DFC               80.0               51.5
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0               51.3
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                64.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   60.0                60.0
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica             Industry          15.0               15.0
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0               90.0
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0               25.0
TOTAL                                           1,548.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          348.8        1.5
Total now outstanding                           1,199.8      22.0
Amount sold                         48.8
Of which has been repaid             19.3           29.5
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                  1,170.3 /2  22.2
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                                                    480.5
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Does not include Second Cali Water Supply which has not yet been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1978)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board       0.50      -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.98   0.08        2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans        0.70      -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09        0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment      0.50      -       0.50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing         -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development          -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles          1.98   0.15       2.13
1968-1969 TeJidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing         -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  ForJas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging        -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing       1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles          5.00   2.61       7.61
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism              -   0.01       0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.45       0.45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development          -   0.43       0.43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism           0.23   0.11       0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism           0.80   0.25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing              -   0.46       0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement            1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement            3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining            6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities       13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material       2.43      -       2.43
Total Gross Commitments                           40.30  13.36      53.66
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            19.89   5.63      25.52
Total commitments now held by IFC                 20.41   7.73       28.14
Total undisbursed                                 21.33   0.74      22.07



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1f
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1978
The largest component of the project, the paving program, has
experienced considerable cost increases and delays. As of this writing, seven
sections in the program are still under construction and about 200 km still to
be paved. Project completion is now expected for 1979. The other components
of the project were completed with much less delay. The Ministry of Public
Works has taken several steps to hasten project execution and strengthen the
performance of contractors.
2.   Ln No. 681 Chivor Hydroelectric Power; US$52.3 million, June 1970.
Effective date: September 1, 1970
Closing date:    Original - June 30, 1977
Current - June 30, 1978
The project was completed and commercially operational in mid-1977,
two years behind schedule, with a cost overrun of about US$86 million (65%).
The delay is mainly attributable to geological problems encountered during
construction of the dam and tunnel. The cost overruns resulted from these
geological problems, from higher than anticipated bids, and local and foreign
inflation.
3.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - December 31, 1979
As of June 30, 1977, about 85% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Adequate tariff measures recently adopted will enable the utility to utilize
the remainder of the loan proceeds in further works, as originally contemplated.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
4.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
Disbursements up to February 28, 1978, amounted to nearly 80% of this
loan. Slow progress in the construction of the vital Palacio - Rio Blanco Tunnel
is the main reason for the project's delay; the original contractor was replaced
by another firm which is performing satisfactorily.
5.   Ln No. 849 Irrigation (Atlantico II); US$5 million, June 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    March 31, 1978
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million were cancelled
in February 1977. Work is continuing on additional feeder roads, tertiary
canal drains, waterfronts, land clearing, subsoiling and leveling. A second
contractor has defaulted and work on the main drainage canal has temporarily
stopped, though a new contract is expected to be signed soon. Settlement of
farmers within the project areas and the provision of technical assistance
and farm credit have been making inadequate progress. The Government is
carrying out a detailed review of the project in order to find a solution
to these problems.
6.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1978
As of February 28, 1978, about 60% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but progress has
since improved.
7.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    December 31, 1979
The progress of the work is generally satisfactory except for
delays in the resettlement of El Penol and Guatape villages because of the
villagers' reluctance to move into the new cities. This problem is now re-
solved and filling of the Santa Rita reservoir will be started by mid-1978,
three years behind schedule. The revised project cost is substantially above
appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher cost of the works at El Penol
and Guatape. The Borrower experienced serious financial problems but recently
has adopted substantial tariff increases.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
8.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, May 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
The loan is almost fully committed. Disbursements are expected to
be completed within the next few months.
9. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 1973.
Effective date: January 10, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 30, 1979
The execution of the project had been suspended in mid-1975 pending
redefinition of sector priorities by the Government. Project execution resumed
in 1977 but suffered delays as a result of inadequate budgetary resources of
the Government. The Government is preparing a proposal to cancel a large
portion of the Loan.
10. Ln No. 926 Sixth Railway Project; US$25 million, August 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1976
current - June 30, 1978
Declines in freight traffic in 1975 and the first six months of
1976 (because of an economic slowdown and lower imports), combined with steep
cost increases, resulted in a deterioration of the railway's financial sit_a-
tion. Since then, the financial position of the railway has been improving as
a consequence of sharp increases of ton-km of freight traffic, and freight
tariff hikes of about 19% in 1976 and 50% in 1977. Improvements have been
registered in other areas although locomotive availability is severely con-
strained largely because of manufacturer defects in over 40% of 88 relatively
new locomotives. Efforts are underway to resolve this problem but early
resolution is not anticipated. Project works are progressing and a substantial
portion has been completed.
11. Ln No. 971 Preinvestment Studies Project; US$8 million, March 1974.
Effective date: June 27, 1974
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Commitments are proceeding at a satisfactory rate. The Bank has
approved 26 sub-projects.
12. Ln No. 1071 Small-Scale Industry; US$5.5 million, January 1975.
Effective date: May 20, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1978
A change of management in Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP),
the beneficiary institution, delayed the initiation of the project. Commit-
ments are now moving well and progress is satisfactory. The Bank agreed to
release the second tranche in view of CFP's satisfactory performance. The
loan is fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
13. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976.
After a slow start, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in
most cities.
14.  Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1978
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily.
15. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    October 31, 1979
The loan became effective on April 1, 1976, after a six-month delay.
Projection execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction, however, is behind schedule, while the
credit program is lagging as a result of inadequate budgetary flaws.
16. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 1975.
Effective date: March 30, 1976
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project. Implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily, but still behind schedule.
17. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 1976.
Effective date: September 1, 1976
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
The loan is proceeding satisfactorily and is virtually fully committed.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
18. Ln No. 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Works are proceeding as scheduled.
19.  Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February
1977.
Effective Date: September 6, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981.
The loan is being committed faster than anticipated. Withdrawal
applications for US$3.1 million equivalent have recently been received.
20. Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
Works are proceeding as scheduled.
21. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date:  February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980.
22.  Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 1977.
Effective Date:  November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Rehabilitation Program is underway, about three months behind
schedule. Stabilization works are being carried out, with work totalling
US$35.4 million completed; conditions for disbursement of loan funds for
this program are expected to be fulfilled shortly. Implementation of the
maintenance program is in process, about six months behind schedule. Prepara-
tion of studies is proceeding satisfactorily.
23.  Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
September 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Works are proceeding rapidly and coordination among institutions
is effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         30 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:         DNP and SIP
(c)  First presentation to Bank:            April 1975
(d)  First mission to review project:       September 1975
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:        February 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:            April 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         October 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank is planning to devote particularly strong supervision
efforts to this project, amounting to about 75 man-weeks during the first
year, and gradually diminishing during the subsequent years of project
execution.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Special assurances were obtained that:
(a) A development plan satisfactory to the Bank will be prepared
for each project area. Bank loan proceeds will be used only
to finance expenses which are covered by a plan approved by
the Bank (para 44).
(b) Local committees will be established in each of the areas
(para 46).
(c) A schedule of charges will be applied to the health services
rendered under the project to recover the cost of drugs and
medicines provided thereunder (para 51).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(d) US$2 million equivalent of loan proceeds will be transferred
to CFP as equity contribution, and Banco Popular will
lend to CFP the same amount at 18% per annum, repayable
in 17 years including four years of grace. CFP will make
loans to enterprises in the project areas at 18% per annum,
for working capital and fixed asset requirements, under
suitable repayment terms (paras 55 and 56).
(e) Proceeds of the proposed loan will be used to finance water
supply works in each area only after the Bank receives
satisfactory studies of water sources and treatment facili-
ties available, including plans for financing any needed
additional works (para 57).
(f) INSFOPAL will make US$11.4 million equivalent available to
the municipal water supply enterprises, for purposes of the
project, as follows: 40% as equity contribution; 40% as
loans at 12% per annum, repayable in 17 years, including
four years of grace; and the remainder as determined by
INSFOPAL in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(para 59).
(g) The water supply enterprises will set their rates at such
levels as will ensure full recovery of the operating and
investment costs, except that the Bank may agree that in certain
cases only a portion of the investment cost be thus recovered
(para 59).
(h) The funds recovered by the water enterprises, derived from
equity contributions of INSFOPAL under that project, will be
used by the enterprises to finance further water supply and
sewerage investments. The funds paid by the enterprises
to INSFOPAL will be used by INSFOPAL, until 6 years after
the closing date, to provide water supply and sewerage
services to people with similar low-income levels in other
areas (para 59).
(i) ICT will provide loans for land tenure regularization purposes
and for home expansion and improvement at 13.8% per annum,
repayable in up to 15 years (para 60 and 61).
(j) ICT will provide loans with interest at 14% per annum,
repayable in up to 15 years, to beneficiaries of the sites
and services component to finance the purchase of the lots
(para 62).



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(k) US$12 million equivalent of the proposed Bank loan proceeds
will be transferred to ICT as equity contribution,
and ICT will use the proceeds of repayment of the loans made
with such funds, until 6 years after the closing date, to
finance similar projects (para 64).
(1) General guidance to the program will be provided by a National
Council which will include representatives of the Department
of National Planning, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of
Education, SIP, ICBF, SENA, ICT, INSFOPAL, and CFP (para 66).
(m) The program to upgrade the skills of selected professionals
involved in planning and execution of the project will be
carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para 69).
(n)  Project monitoring and evaluation will be performed under terms
satisfactory to the Bank (para 70).
2.        The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan: that the agreement providing for Banco Popular's loan to CFP has
been signed; and that the agreements between the Government and the other
project entities and between SIP and the other participating ministries have
been signed (paras 56 and 67).
3.        A condition of disbursement on account of expenditures in each area
would be that the plan for the respective area shall have been approved by
the Bank (para 44).



iBRD-3638R1
OCTOBER $76
A  TL A NTICOC EA N                                                                                                                  SOUTH AMERC
W-.  SUCE.tte                            /
0~~~~~~~~
N      J~~~~~~~~~~~                          N    E/                          
-~~~~       0~~~
ANTtOQUIA~~~~~~~~~~~N
~~ SceS    NT   NDE                             AR        UC 
C   H                                              N..    "  
NADA \'   /                                         CSANAR
)    ANTROQUNA            N  N/MPCA
BOGOTlr      A#    T NE/                                                      DA
-                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
N  0~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            
N.-   CHOCO ~ ~ Fl.ci
N A R iRSAAWA    C1.P0                                                      v  CASANARE 
N      NOUI~~~~20         A  U       > E T A 
P ULN. T           OIM U'NM,A,rYC
A   M     A        Z     NA
OLOBI
N                                       -                                                             )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
B.             '-.----~s                                                                                    N 
&  N.  /                         N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



