CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1558 CO
Loan Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOYSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 21, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1558 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
Section 11.03. Action on Behalf of the Borrower or
Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement,
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor, may be taken
or executed by the representative of the Borrower or the
Guarantor designated in the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement for the purposes of this Section or any person
thereunto authorized in writing by him. Any modification
or amplification of the provisions of the Loan Agreement
or the Guarantee Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of
the Borrower or the Guarantor by written instrument executed
on behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor by the representa-
tive so designated or any person thereunto authorized in
writing by him; provided that such modification or amplifica-
tion is reasonable in the circumstances and will not substan-
tially increase the obligations of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement or of the Guarantor under the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "IPC" means the Programa de Integraci6n de Servicios
Participaci6n Comunitaria of the Borrower for the years 1977
through 1981;
(b) "Project Area" means the area covered by twenty-seven
geographical zones (identified by SIP and to be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank) in the twenty-three cities in
Colombia listed in 3chedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(c) "DAP" means Departamento Administrativo de la Presi-
dencia de la Repfiblica of the Borrower;
(d) "SIP" means Secretaria de Integraci6n Popular of DAP,
which is to be responsible for the management, coordination,
supervision and evaluation of IPC with the technical assistance of
Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n of the Borrower;
(e) "Ministerio de Educaci6n" means the Ministerio de
Educaci6n Nacional of the Borrower;
(f) "Ministerio de Salud" means the Ministerio de Salud
Pfiblica of the Borrower;
(g) "Ministerios" means collectively the ministerios re-
ferred to in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this Section;
(h) "Project Entities" means collectively the entities
listed in Part II of the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as
such Annex may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank;
(i) "Empresa" means an enterprise established and operating,
or to be established and operated, under the laws of the Borrower,
which shall participate with the Borrower and Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal in the carrying out of Part C (a) of the
Project;
(j) "Sede Central de los Centros de Desarrollo Vecinal" and
"Sede" mean the community development centers set up by the
Borrower in urban areas under IPC for providing social services to
the population of such areas; and
(k) "pesos" and "Col.$" mean the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four
million eight hundred thousand dollars ($24,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) (i) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project through SIP, with the participation of Ministerio de
Educaci6n, Ministerio de Salud and the Project Entities, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
urban, health, nutritional, educational, administrative, economic,
engineering and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause
the Project Entities to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose
(the funds to be provided by the Borrower and the Project En-
tities, in addition to the proceeds of the Loan, being on the date
hereof estimated to aggregate the equivalent of not less than
thirty-seven million two hundred thousand dollars ($37,200,000).
Ministerio de Educaci6n, Ministerio de Salud and the Project
Entities shall participate in the carrying out of the Project as
indicated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such
Annex may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank. (ii) Without limitations on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall transfer the equivalent of not less than $10,900,000,
$12,400,000 and $2,000,000, in pesos, to Instituto de Cr&dito
Territorial, Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal and Cor-
poraci6n Financiera Popular, respectively; such transfers to be
made on a non-reimbursable basis and for purposes of the Project;
provided, however, that such transfer to Corporaci6n Financiera
Popular shall be in addition to any capital contribution to
Corporaci6n Financiera Popular made or to be made pursuant to
any agreement to which the Bank is a party.
(b) The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, in
accordance with methodological guidelines agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Bank, Project implementation plans, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for each of the geographical zones included in
the Project Area.
(c) In the carrying out of the credit programs under Parts B
and C of the Project, the Borrower undertakes that it will at all
times follow, or cause to be followed, the lending terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank.
(d) The Borrower shall enter into a contract, satisfactory
to the Bank, with each of the Project Entities for: (i) defining


﻿- 5 -
in detail the responsibilities (including financial responsibil-
ities), functions and administrative procedures of SIP and the
Project Entity, respectively, in respect of the carrying out of
the Project, and (ii) subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph
(a) of this Section, making available to the Project Entity the
equivalent in pesos of such portions of the proceeds of the Loan
and such other contributions of the Borrower as shall be neces-
sary, in addition to the own resources of the Project Entity, to
cover the expenses of the Project Entity in respect of the
Project.
(e) The Borrower shall cause SIP to enter into contracts,
satisfactory to the Bank, with Ministerio de Educaci6n and
Ministerio de Salud, respectively, for defining in detail the
responsibilities (including financial responsibilities), functions
and administrative procedures of SIP and Ministerio de Educaci6n
and Ministerio de Salud, respectively, in respect of the carrying
out of the Project.
(f) Tha Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
contracts referred to in paragraph (d) above in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive such contracts or any provision thereof.
*(g) The Borrower shall cause SIP and Ministerio de Educaci6n
and Ministerio de Salud to exercise their rights under the con-
tracts referred to in paragraph (e) above in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Bank, SIP, Ministerio de Educaci6n
and Ministerio de Salud and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause SIP, Ministerio de Educaci6n and Ministerio de Salud
not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive such contracts or any
provision thereof.
(h) In order to assist in the carrying out of Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause Banco Popular to enter into a
contract with Corporaci6n Financiera Popular under which Banco
Popular shall make a peso loan in the equivalent of two million
dollars ($2,000,000) to Corporaci6n Financiera Popular, on terms
and conditions agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, such
terms and conditions to include, inter alia, the terms and condi-
tions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal, in accordance with the provisions of the
contract referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, to enter into a contract, satisfactory to the Bank,
with each Empresa for:
(i) defining in detail the responsibilities (including
financial responsibilities), functions and admin-
istrative procedures of Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal and the Empresa, respectively, in
respect of the carrying out of Part C (a) of the
Project; and
(ii) making available to the Empresa such portion of the
amounts made available by the Borrower to Instituto
Nacional de Fomento Municipal under the contract
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement as shall be necessary, in addition
to the own resources of the Empresa, to cover
the expenses of the Empresa in respect of the
carrying out of Part C (a) of the Project. Insti-
tuto Nacional de Fomento Municipal shall make
available to each such Empresa the funds referred
to herein on terms and conditions agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank, such terms and
conditions to include, inter alia, the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal to exercise its rights under the contracts referred to
in paragraph (a) above in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause
Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal not to assign, amend,
abrogate or waive such contracts or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take and shall cause its
agencies and entities to take all action which shall be necessary
on their part to enable the Project Entities to carry out the
Project activities required from them, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which might interfere with the
carrying out of such activities.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the engineering and supervision of the works included in
Part C (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to
be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; unless the Bank shall agree that no consultants' services
shall be required in respect of the carrying out of any component
included in such part of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause
to be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of,
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to
be furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, .r cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives,
or cause them to be enabled, to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date, or on such


﻿- 8 -
other date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on: (i) the execution and initial operation of the
Project; (ii) its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it; (iii) the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement; (iv) the
performance by the Borrower and each of the Project Entities of
their respective obligations under the applicable contract to be
entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; (v)
the performance by SIP and each of the Ministerios of their
respective obligations under the applicable contract to be entered
into pursuant to such Section 3.01 (e); (vi) the performance by
Banco Popular and Corporaci6n Financiera Popular of their
respective obligations under the contract to be entered into
pursuant to Section 3.01 (h) of this Agreement; (vii) the perfor-
mance by Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal and each Empresa
of their respective obligations under the applicable contract to
be entered into pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
and (viii) the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall employ, and shall cause
the Project Entities to employ, such qualified and experienced
staff as shall be required for the efficient and timely carrying
out of the Project.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions
in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, in each of the Sedes in the Project Area the following
staff:
(i) one regional administrative coordinator (Delegado
Administrativo Regional), one small enterprises
promoter (Coordinador de Peque?as Empresas) and
one community development promoter (Tgcnico en
Desarrollo Social), all of whom shall have adequate
qualifications and experience and shall be ap-
pointed by SIP; provided, however, that in the case
of cities containing more than one geographical


﻿- 9 -
zone, the Bank may agree that such staff serve more
than one Sede; and
(ii) such other qualified and experienced staff as shall
be required for the efficient and timely carrying
out of the Project and the operation of such
Sedes.
(c) Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall cause:
(i) Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal to assign
to the carrying out of Part C (a) of the Project
such technical and financial staff as shall be
required for the efficient and timely carrying out
of such Part.
(ii) Instituto de Cr&dito Territorial to assign
competent teams to each applicable geographical
zone included in the Project Area, to promote and
supervise the credit program of Instituto de
Credito Territorial included in the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall establish and maintai
until completion of the Project:
(a) a national council (Consejo Nacional de los Centros de
Desarrollo Vecinal) composed of the Secretary of SIP and repre-
sentatives of the Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n of the
Borrower, Ministerio de Salud, Ministerio de Educaci6n, Insti-
tuto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar, Servicio Nacional de
Aprendizaje, Instituto de Cr&dito Territorial, Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal and Corporaci6n Financiera Popular;
(b) a local council (Consejo Local de los Centros de
Desarrollo Vecinal) composed of a representative of SIP, the chief
of municipal or departmental planning and the regional chief of
each Ministerio and Project Entity; and
(c) in each of the geographical zones included in the
Project Area, a coordinating committee (Junta Ejecutora y
Coordinadora del Centro de Desarrollo Vecinal) composed of a
representative of each of the Project Entities providing services
in such zone, community representatives residing in each such
zone, and the regional administrative coordinator of the ap-
plicable Sede.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members rot to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the c-eation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, which will or might
result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such
external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other assets, satisfactory
to the Bank, of the Borrower or of any entity owned or controlled
by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower,
including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by any
institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrowev.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any


﻿- 11 -
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action, including
the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses,
foreign exchange permits and all other approvals required under
the laws of the Borrower, to ensure the timely procurement of the
goods and services required for the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall include in the contracts
to be entered into pursuant to paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, and shall cause Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal to include in the contracts to be entered into pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, respectively, such provisions
as shall be necessary to ensure that each Project Entity and
Empresa shall:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in such
accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection with
the Project, in accordance with sound accounting principles and
procedures consistently applied; and
(b) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above and related statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of such entity's fiscal
year, (A) certified copies of such accounts and
related statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿- 12 -
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning such accounts and related statements of
such entity and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take, and cause the Project
Entities to take, all action, including the provision of funds and
resources, to ensure that the facilities and equipment included in
the Project are adequately operated, maintained, renewed and
repaired.
Section 4.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, with respect to the health services provided under
Part A of the Project, put into effect and maintain a system of
charges for the recovery, on the average, from the beneficiaries
of such services of at least the cost of drugs and medicines
provided through the centers and staff referred to in Part A (c)
of the Project.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take and cause to be taken
all action as shall be necessary to ensure that each Empresa
shall:
(a) establish and maintain water supply and sewerage tariffs
and other charges for its services at such levels as shall be
required to generate enough revenues to cover the Empresa's
investment, operating and maintenance costs; provided, however,
that: (i) the Bank may agree that the Empresa shall recover less
than its total investment costs; and (ii) unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, whenever there is an agreement regarding tariffs
between an Empresa and Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal on
account of funds made or to be made available to such Empresa out
of the proceeds of any loan made by the Bank to Instituto Nacional
de Fomento Municipal, the provisions of such agreement shall be
incorporated into the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of
this Agreement; and
(b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, set aside out
of the funds generated by the tariffs and other charges referred
to in paragraph (a) above, simultaneously with and Iro rata to the
Empresa's debt service payments to Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal under the contract entered into in accordance with
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, amounts which, at the time the
Empresa shall finish servicing its debt to Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal, shall be equal to the equity contributions made


﻿- 13 -
by Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal to the Empresa in
accordance with such contract, and utilize the amounts set aside
for future water supply and sewerage investments to be made by the
Empresa.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal to utilize until
after six years from the Closing Date all funds repaid to it by
the Empresas under the contracts referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement exclusively for the financing of projects similar
to those included in the Project; and
(b) Instituto de Credito Territorial to utilize until
after six years from the Closing Date all funds repaid by benefi-
ciaries of loans made under paragraphs (b) and (c) (i), (ii) and
(iii) of Part C of the Project exclusively for the financing of
projects similar to those included in the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any party to any contract entered into pursuant to
paragraphs (d), (e) and (h) of Section 3.01 and Section 3.02 of
this Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its respective
obligations thereunder.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that any party to any contract entered
into pursuant to paragraphs (d), (e) and (h) of Section 3.01 and
Section 3.02 of this Agreement will be able to perform any of its
respective obligations thereunder.
(c) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SIP, Ministerio de Educaci6n, Ministerio de Salud, any
Project Entity, Banco Popular or any Empresa or for the suspension
of their operations related to the execution of the Project.


﻿- 14 -
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have divested SIP, Ministerio de Educaci6n, Ministerio de
Salud, any Project Entity, Banco Popular or any Empresa of any of
the functions or powers vested in any of them as of the date of
this Agreement so as to affect adversely the efficient carrying
out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the loan from Banco Popular to Corporaci6n Financiera
Popular referred to in paragraph (h) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement has been made;
(b) the execution and delivery of the contracts referred to
in paragraph (d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(c) the execution and delivery of the contracts referred to
in paragraph (e) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 6.02. The date November 21, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr&dito Pfiblico of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
y Cr&dito Pfblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Virgilio Barco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /sf Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works (Parts A          6,400,000       40%
and C (a) of the
Project), including
consultants' services
for the engineering
and supervision of
the works included
in Part C (a) of
the Project
(2) Equipment, materials            800,000
and vehicles (Parts
A, B (b) and C (a)
of the Project)
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) imported and                             40%
procured
locally
(c) locally manu-                            40% of the ex-
factured                                factory costs
(3) Training and Technical          900,000       50%
Assistance for Parts B
(b) and (c), and E of
the Project


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4) Loans under                   2,000,000      50% of amounts
Part B (a) of                               disbursed by
the Project                                 Corporaci6n
Financiera
Popular
(5) Loans under                   8,000,000      50% of amounts
Part C (c) of                               disbursed by
the Project                                 Instituto de
Credito
Territorial
(6) Unallocated                   6,700,000
TOTAL       24,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than .the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;


﻿- 18 -
(b) expenditures in connection with any geographical
zone included in the Project Area: (i) until the date upon which
the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice of its satisfaction
with the Project implementation plan prepared for such geographi-
cal zone in accordance with paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, and (ii) unless such expenditures are covered by such
plan;
(c) expenditures incurred by any Empresa until evidence
satisfactory to the Bank has been furnished to the Bank that the
contract between Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal and such
Empresa has been duly executed and delivered in acc:rdance with
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(d) expenditures incurred by any Empresa in connection with
water supply works included in Part C (a) of the Project, unless
the Bank shall have received studies satisfactory to the Bank
regarding water sources and treatment facilities available
to, or to be developed by, any such Empresa, including plans for
financing any needed additional works.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may: (i) at the request of the Borrower,
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallo-
cation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, by notice to the
Borrower, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures therevnder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of IPC and consists of the following
Parts to be carried out during the period 1978-1981 in the Project
Area.
Part A:   Social Services
(a) (i) Construction, in accordance with design standards
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank, of
new, or renovation or expansion of existing,
facilities for the Sedes in each of the geograph-
ical zones included in the Project Area; and
(ii) Equipping, staffing and operation of such Sedes.
(b) (i) Construction outside of the Sedes, in accordance
with design standards agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, and utilization of about
165 new classrooms, including about 143 sanitary
units, about 61 administrative units and ancillary
facilities, and renovation and utilization of about
86 existing classrooms;
(ii) Acquisition, installation and utilization of
teaching aids and equipment for about 366 new and
existing classrooms;
(iii) Improvement of the organization of school facili-
ties to accomodate increased student enrollment
either through the use of double shifts or other
system satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iv) Intensification of the use of existing classroom
facilities by using them for such activities
as adult education and related community programs.
(c) (i) Acquisition, installation and utilization of
equipment for 27 community health centers to be
operated in each of the Sedes referred to in
paragraph (a) above;


﻿- 20 -
(ii) Acquisition, installation and utilization of
equipment for the field staff of the community
health posts referred to in paragraph (c) (i)
above; and
(iii) Strengthening of the operations of the community
health posts including the mobile health unit,
referred to in paragaraph (c) (i) and (ii) above.
(d) Acquisition, installation and utilization of equipment
for 27 child and family welfare centers to be operated in each
of the Sedes referred to in paragraph (a) above, including equip-
ment required for the carrying out of community day care programs
in decentralized locations such as private homes, and rehabilita-
tion of such private homes.
Part B:   Employment and Productivity
(a) Loans for the financing of fixed assets and working
capital requirements to: (i) productive enterprises with total
assets (excluding land) not exceeding the equivalent of $15,000
owned by residents of the Project Area, provided that such enter-
prises are not owned or controlled by any individual or group
of individuals or legal entity whose respective total assets
(including land) exceed the equivalent of $50,000; and (ii) com-
munity or cooperative productive enterprises with total assets
(excluding land) not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 sub-
stantially owned by residents of the Project Area.
(b) Acquisition, installation and utilization of equipment,
vehicles and materials for 27 training and production workshops to
be operated in each of the Sedes through which there will be
provided training for workers and managers and technical assis-
tance to, including promotion of, enterprises in the Project Area,
including those referred to in paragraph (a) above, in the prep-
aration of projects for financing under the Project.
(c) Strengthening the financial position and increasing
the lending capacity of savings and loans cooperatives which will
conduct their business in the Project Area, by means of promoting
the activities of, and providing technical and financial assis-
tance to, such cooperatives, including, if so needed, the estab-
lishment of new cooperatives and the subscription of share capital
in both new and existing cooperatives.


﻿- 21 -
Part C:   Physical and Environmental Improvements
(a) Construction of water supply and sewerage facilities,
including distribution networks and individual dwelling connec-
tions, and rehabilitation of existing facilities.
(b) Regularization of land tenure benefiting approximately
31,000 households, including loans for such purpose to community
groups and individuals.
(c) (i) Development of serviced lots (including serviced
lots with a sanitary core unit or with a sanitary
core unit and minimum shelter) and loans to indi-
viduals for (A) the purchase, at prices determined
in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, of such lots and (B) the construction of
dwellings thereon; and
(ii) Loans to individuals for home improvement, priority
to be given to the installation of sanitary facil-
ities made possible by the works to be carried out
under paragraph (a) above.
Part D:   Project Management and Evaluation
Establishment and operation of a project management and
evaluation system, satisfactory to the Bank, to: (i) implement
the Project; (ii) review continuously the progress of the Project
both at local and national levels; and (iii) periodically evaluate
the effects of the Project, including inter alia, the carrying out
of studies for the evaluation of (A) the management effectiveness
of the Project at the local and national levels; (B) the intra-
family benefits of the health and nutrition, child and family
welfare, and education components of the Project; and (C) the
effects of the skills improvement and small-scale industry credit
components on the productivity of adult workers.
Part E:   Training
Training of staff of the agencies and entities participating
in the carrying out of the Project.
The Project will be carried out with the participation of
the agencies and entities listed in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 22 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Participation in
the Project
Part I
1.   Ministerio de Educaci6n               Parts A (b) and E
2.   Ministerio de Salud                   Parts A (c) and (d),
C (a) and E
Part II
3.   Project Entities:
(a) Instituto de Crédito              Parts A (a) (1) and
Territorial                      C (b) and (c)
(b) Instituto Colombiano de           Part A (b) (i) and (ii)
Construcciones Escolares
(c) Instituto Colombiano              Parts A (d) and E
de Bienestar Familiar
(d) Corporaci6n Financiera            Parts B (a) and E
Popular
(e) Servicio Nacional de              Parts B (b) and E
Aprendizaje
(f) Instituto Nacional de             Part C (a)
Fomento Municipal


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1982
through   October 15, 1994                    955,000
On April 15, 1995                                  925,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 24 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premiums
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                       2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                4.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                7.50%


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 4 below, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 above and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of availability to
the public of the first tender documents relating thereto a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph I above.
3.   For bidding purposes, goods to be procured in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be grouped in such
manner as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior
to issuing the invitation to bid.
4.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than $150,000 shall be procured in accor-
dance with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures.
5.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph 5 above:
(a) Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $15,000, may be procured on a negotiated basis
or may be carried out by force account; and


﻿- 26 -
(b) With the prior approval of the Bank, civil works
under paragraphs (a) (i) and (b) (i) of Part A of the Project, may
be carried out by force account.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with the Borrower's procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to
state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Colombia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated.bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import


﻿- 27 -
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in paragraph 1 of
Part A of this Schedule estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for


﻿- 28 -
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1
of Part A of this Schedule to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Area
CITIES
(1) Armenia
(2) Bairancabermeja
(3) Bucaramanga
(4) Cartago
(5) CGcuta (4 geographical zones)
(6) Girardot
(7) Ibague
(8) Rfohacha
(9) Manizales
(10) Monterfa
(11) Neiva
(12) Pasto
(13) Pereira (2 geographical zones)
(14) Quibdo
(15) Sabanalarga
(16) San Andrfs
(17) Santa Marta
(18) Sincelejo
(19) TulGa
(20) Tumaco
(21) Turbo
(22) Valledupar
(23) Villavicencio


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 6
Lending Terms and Conditions
Regarding the Credit Programs
Under Parts B and C of the Project
1.   Part B of the Project
Loans under paragraph (a) of Part B of the Project will
include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
(i) interest on the outstanding principal of each loan will
be payable at the rate of eighteen per cent (18%) per
annum, inclusive of all applicable commissions, taxes,
charges or fees of any kind whatsoever; provided,
however, that if at any time such a loan is made the
lowest interest on loans eligible for financing under
the Fondo Financiero Industrial of Banco de la Rep6blica
is higher than eighteen per cent (18%) per annum, such
higher rate will be applied;
(ii) the repayment terms will reflect the capacity of the
beneficiary to repay and the cash flow position of the
investment plan and will be for not less than two
years, including a grace period of not less than six
months, in the case of loans for the financing of
working capital requirements, and not less than four
years, including a grace period of not less than one
year, in the case of loans for the financing of fixed
assets or combination of fixed assets and working
capital; and
(iii) the type of security acceptable from the beneficiary
will include real estate mortgages, chattel mortgages on
equipment or guarantees of third parties, and in evalu-
ating the adequacy of any collateral offered the special
circumstances of the beneficiary will be taken into
account.
2.   Part C of the Project
(a) Loans under paragraph (b) of Part C of the Project will
include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
(i) the amount of each loan will be up to the equiva-
lent of ninety per cent (90%) of the estimated
expenditures to be financed therewith;


﻿- 31 -
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each loan
will be payable at the rate of thirteen and eight-
tenths per cent (13.8%) per annum, inclusive of all
applicable commissions, taxes, charges or fees of
any kind whatsoever; and
(iii) the repayment terms will reflect the capacity of
the beneficiary to repay and will be for up to
15 years.
(b) Loans under paragraph (c) (i) of Part C of the Project
will include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
(i) loans will be in amounts not exceeding the limits
set forth in Acuerdo No. 004 of 1977, Resoluci6n
No. 1679, dated September 20, 1977 and Resoluci6n
No. 1946, dated October 23, 1977, all of Instituto
de Credito Territorial;
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each
loan will be payable at the rate of thirteen and
eight-tenths per cent (13.8%) per annum, inclusive
of all applicable commission, taxes, charges or
fees of any kind whatsoever;
(iii) the repayment terms will reflect the capacity of
the beneficiary to repay and will be for up to
15 years; and
(iv) loans will be made only to individuals with a
monthly income of not more than the equivalent of
one-hundred dollars.
(c) Loans under paragraph (c) (ii) of Part C of the Project
will include, inter alia, the following terms and conditions:
(i) loans will be in amounts not exceeding the limits
set forth in Acuerdo No. 004 of 1977, Resoluci6n
No. 1679, dated September 20, 1977 and Resoluci6n
No. 1946, dated October 23, 1977, all of Instituto
de Crfdito Territorial;
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each loan
will be payable at the rate of fourteen per cent
(14%) per annum, inclusive of all applicable


﻿- 32 -
commissions, taxes, charges or fees of any kind
whatsoever;
(iii) the repayment terms will reflect the capacity of
the beneficiary to repay and will be for up to
15 years;
(iv) lcans will be made only to individuals with a
monthly income of not more than the equivalent of
one-hundred dollars; and
(v) in making loans, priority will be given to the
financing of (A) sanitary facilities, (B) materials
and structural improvements and (C) house ad-
ditions, when such additions are necessary after
consideration of the number of people occupying the
house.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 7
1.   Terms and conditions of the loan from Banco Popular to
Corporaci6n Financiera Popular (paragraph (h) of Section 3.01
of the Loan Agreement).
The loan will be repayable over a period of seventeen years
including a grace period of four years, and will bear interest at
the rate of not more than eighteen per cent (18%) per annum on the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
inclusive of all applicable commissions, taxes, charges or fees of
any kind whatsoever.
2.   Terms and conditions under which Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal will make available funds to the Empresas
(Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement).
Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal will make available
to each Empresa the funds referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (ii) of
the Loan Agreement as follows: forty per cent (40%) as equity
contribution; forty per cent (40%) as a loan at an annual interest
rate of twelve per cent (12%) per annum, inclusive of all ap-
plicable commissions, taxes, charges or fees of any kind whatso-
ever, repayable in seventeen years, including four years of grace;
and the remainder either as equity contribution or as a loan on
the said terms, or a combination thereof, depending on the finan-
cial. situation and investment requirements of each Empresa, as
determined by Instituto Nacional de Fomento Municipal in accor-
dance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.


