Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16459 - SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
April 11, 1997
Iluman Development 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF500 (March 1997)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP        Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Inter6t Public contre le Sous-en7ploi
(Contract Management Agency)
AIDS          Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BRH           Brigade Regionale d'Hygiene (Regional Hygiene Unit)
CFA           Comnmunaute Financiere Africaine (African Financial Community)
DAGE          Direction de I 'Administration et de I 'Equipement (Administration and
Equipment Directorate)
DALYs         Disability-Adjusted Life Years
DSTAT         Division des Statistiques (Statistics Division)
DHSP          Direction de l'llygiene et de la Sante Publique (Hygiene and Public Health
Directorate)
EU            European Union
FAC           Fonds d'Aide cr la C'oop&ration (French Cooperation)
GDP           Gross domestic product
IDA           International Development Association
IEC           Information, Education and Communication
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
MRA           Medical Region Administration
MSPAS         Ministere de Ia Sante Publique et de I 'Action Sociale (Ministry of Public
Health and Social Affairs)
OCP           Onchocerciasis Control Program
OMVS          Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (Organization for
the Development of the Senegal River)
PNA           Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement (Central Pharmaceutical
Procurement Agency)
SA            Special Account
SSA           Sub-Saharan Africa
SGE           Secteur des Grandes Endemies (Regional Endemic Disease Control Unit)
SIG           Systeme d'Information ai desfins de Gestion (Health Information System)
SIP           Health Sector Investment Project
SNGE          Service National des (Grandes Endemies (National Endemic Disease Service)
STD           Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNICEF        United Nations Children Fund
USAID         U.S. Agency for International Development
VHW           Village Health Worker
WHO           World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President          : Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                : Mahmood A. Ayub
Technical Manager       : Ok Pannenborg
Task Team Leader        : Yves Genevier



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
BASIC DATA AND COMPARATIVE INDICATORS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................................................... i
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................................1
2. THE CONTEXT ...................................................... .I
A. DEVELOPMENT CONTEXT .......................................................1
B. SECTORAL CONTEXT .......................................................3
C. ISSUES .......................................................7
D. GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND ACTIONS AND THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE ...................................................8
3. THE PROJECT ...................................................... .                                              10
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY ......................................................                         10
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................................                                     I I
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ......................................................                              19
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................                                     20
A. STATU1S OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND READINESS ......................................................            20
B. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................................................                    20
C. MONITORING AND EVALUATION ......................................................                               21
D. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ......................................................                            22
E. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING ......................................................                      25
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................................                                 26
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................................................                      27
ANNEX I    PROJECT LOGICAL FRAMEWORK & INDICATORS
ANNEX 2    LETTER OF SUB-SECTOR POLICY
ANNEX 3    MALARIA
ANNEX 4    SCHISTOSOMIASIS
ANNEX 5    ONCHOCERCIASIS
ANNEX 6    HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (SIG)
ANNEX 7    NATIONAL ENDEMIC DISEASE SERVICE (SNGE)
ANNEX 8    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ANNEX 9    SUPERVISION PLAN
ANNEX 10   PROCUREMENT PLAN
ANNEX 11   PROJECT COSTS
ANNEX 12   SELECTED DOCUMENTS & DATA IN PROJECT FILE
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission carried out in Senegal in December 1996 by Mr. Yves Genevier
(Task Manager), Mr. Alassane Diawara (Resident Mission), Slaheddine Ben-Halima (Procurement specialist), and Dr. Jose
Najera (Consultant) and has been the object of a Decision Meeting, chaired by Mr. Mahmood Ayub on January 30, 1997. The
project preparation has also benefitted from consultation, review, and technical work from Dr. Bemard Liese, Lead Advisor;
Mr. Armin Fidler, Peer Reviewer; Mr. Florent Agueh; Mr. Bernard Abeille, Procurement Specialist; Ms. Myrina McCullough,
Program Assistant, and Ms. Bronagh Murphy, Editor.






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
BASIC DATA AND COMPARATIVE INDICATORS
Sub-Saharan
POVERTY and SOCLAL                     Senegal        Africa       Low-income
Population mid-1995 (millions)                       8.5           589            3,188
GNP per capita 1995 (US$)                            570           490             460
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                              4.8           289            1,466
Average annual growth, 1990-1995
Population (%)                                       2.7            2.8            1.8
Labor force (%)                                      2.6            2.8            1.9
Most recent estimate
(latest year available since 1989)
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)             42             31             29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     50             52             63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             62             92             58
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)           20             ..             38
Access to safe water (% of population)               51             47             75
Illiteracy (% of population 15+)                     67             43             34
Gross primary enrollment
(% of school-age population)                         56             71             105
Male                                                67            77             112
Female                                              50            64              98
Development dlamond'
Life expectancy
GNP                         Gross
per               - -      primary
capita                   enrollment
Access to safe water
Senegal
Low-income group






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Senegal
Implementing Agency:       Ministry of Public Health and Social Affairs (MSPAS)
Beneficiaries:             Not applicable
Poverty Category:          Not directly applicable
Amount:                     SDR10.8 million (US$14.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:            IDA            :US$14.9 million
EU            :US$0.3 million
FAC           :US$0.7 million
WHO           :US$0.1 million
UNICEF        :US$0.l million
Government  :US$0.9 million
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 16459
Map:                        IBRD No. 28634
Project lID:                SN-PE-41567
Project Description
1.    For every population cohort in Senegal, infectious diseases are the main cause of
mortality and morbidity, with malaria, respiratory infections and diarrhea being most prevalent.
In recent years, there has been a recrudescence of epidemic diseases such as cholera, a steady
increase of endemic diseases such as malaria, schistosomiasis, onchocerciasis and hepatitis B,
and the emergence of new viral diseases such as AIDS.
2.    The organization of endemic and epidemic diseases surveillance and control is the
responsibility of the Endemic Disease Control sub-DirectorateService National des Grandes
Endemies (SNGE). Over the past 20 years, the resources allocated to the SNGE have steadily
decreased to 1 percent of the Ministerial budget. Surveillance and control activities have been
mainly supported by the donor community, with a project-by-project and donor-by-donor
approach. The capability and organization of the SNGE as a team have progressively
deteriorated, undermining the effectiveness and motivation of its staff. Furthermore, knowledge
of the epidemiological situation in the country has decreased in the absence of an effective and
communicative health management information system, leaving no opportunity for prevention or
proactive measures.
3.    The project was born from the dialogue between Government and IDA about the New
Orientations of the Health and Social Sector Policy (Nouvelles Orientations de la Politique de



ii
Sante et d'Action Sociale) defined in June 1995, and was developed during a series of
consultative meetings organized by the Government over an 18-month period. Participants in
these meetings were drawn from all stakeholder groups, including district and regional medical
staff, from the medical university, and partners in development for Senegal.
4.     The long-term objective of the project is to strengthen national capacity to control
endemic and epidemic diseases, with greater concern for rationalization in the use of resources
and cost-effectiveness in the choice of control stategy. Project strategy consists in institutionally
strengthening the SNGE, supporting its efforts to control, in particular, three diseases of public
health importance, i.e. malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis, and implementing a
computerized health management information system. The project design includes three main
components: (a) support to malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis control activities, (b)
development of a computerized health management information system; and (c) institutional
strengthening of the SNGE.
Project Benefits
5.     By reducing the burden of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis, the project will
directly benefit the populations in rural areas where these diseases are most prevalent. As a
result of the reinforcement of national capacities to control endemic and epidemic diseases, the
project will also significantly benefit people in poor urban areas who have been severely hit by
recent epidemics of cholera, and who are still at high risk from other epidemics such as cerebral
meningitis. The social and economic development of the Senegalese population will strongly
benefit from the success of the project as endemic disease control activities are pure public
goods with important externalities. For example, the project's global objective to reduce malaria
morbidity by 20 percent would save an equivalent of 0.2 percent of GDP. Finally, the
implementation of a computerized network supporting the national health information system
will allow a better planification of resources, a improved communication between staff, and also
with international partners, as well as a new work culture towards partnership and cross-
fertilization.
Project Risks
6.     The first risk relates to the acceptance by health staff of the new mission for the SNGE
and its integration within the general health services. This risk would be reduced by: (a) a clear
definition of the breakdown of the SNGE's responsibilities in the control of each disease; (b) the
SNGE's demonstration of high professionalism and expertise; and (c) the development of a
strong team spirit. The second risk relates to the non-sustainability of crucial activities at
peripheral levels, such as continuous in-service training, regular supervision of the staff, and
education of the population on public health issues. These activities will be included and
budgeted for within the Regional and District Health and Social Plans, and regional and district
health teams would be accountable for implementing these activities. The last risk would be the
failure of the donor community to fully coordinate its efforts to support the surveillance and
control of endemic and epidemic diseases. The Bank would assist the Government in
minimizing this potential risk during project implementation through coordination mechanisms
to be established under both this project and the Health Sector Investment Project under
preparation.



iii
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
ff Foreign if Local if  Total  ][   % of Total
l_ ft   II                          Base Cost
1. Malaria, Schistosomiasis
and Onchocerciasis Control  2.4       2.2        4.6           30%
2. Health Information System  2.5       0.8       3.3            22%
3. Institutional Strengthening  3.9     3.4       7.3            48%
TOTAL BASE COSTS:           8.8       6.4       15.2           100%
Physical Contingencies:     0.6       0.4        1.0            7%
Price Contingencies:        0.4       0.4       0.8             5%
I1                 I           l1 
TOTAL PROJECT COST:  F[  9.8  ||  7.2             17.0  11       112%
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
L  Foreign  ||  Local          Taxes & Duties       Total
IDA                  8.6          6.3              0.0              14.9
Government           0.0          0.4              0.5              0.9
UNICEF               0.1          0.0              0.0              0.1
WHO                  0.1          0,0              0.0              0.1
EU                   0.3          0,0              0.0              0.3
FAC                  0.7          0,0    j         0.0              0.7
TOTAL         if    9.8    ||   6.7    if          0.5              17.0
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
FY98         FY99        FY00       FY01        FY02
Annual         2.0           4.5         3.5        2.6         2.0
Cumulative       2.0           6.5         10.3       12.9       14.9
Slight differences in amount may occur due to rounding of figures.






REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Senegal has requested International Development Aid (IDA)
financing over 5 years for a credit to develop its national capacity for epidemiological
surveillance and control of endemic and epidemic diseases. Total project costs are estimated at
US$17.0 million. The Government would contribute about US$0.9 million. The remaining
US$16.1 million would be financed by the International Development Agency (IDA), European
Union (EU), French Cooperation (FAC), United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and World
Health Organization (WHO).
1.2   The project would be IDA's first free-standing endemic disease control project in
Senegal and the first project of its kind in sub-Saharan Africa. It is an intervention which
focuses on the revitalization of the Service National des Grandes Endemies (SNGE), on the
development of a computerized network-based health management information system (SIG),
and on the reinforcement of the control of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis, three
diseases which impede the productivity of the human capital base. The project would precede
and complement the Senegalese Health Sector Investment Project (SIP) which is under
preparation and will be appraised in FY97. The early implementation of the project will give a
headstart to the development of the SIG, thus facilitating the SIP implementation.
1.3   The project would be IDA's third contribution to the development of health services in
Senegal. The first two projects did not include any significant investment in the control of
endemic diseases. Policy measures and investments included in this project have been
developed through extensive dialogue with Senegalese authorities based on a ten-year National
Health and Social Development Plan and a five-year investment program, both completed in
March 1997 with the support of multilateral and bilateral donors.
1.4   The following partners of the Senegal Government who are involved in the health sector,
the EU, FAC, UNICEF and WHO, have participated actively in project preparation and would
cofinance the project. Given the importance they attach to the achievement of the project
objectives, they would adjust the agendas of their bilateral programs in order to maximize the
synergy with the project, in particular in the domain of the development of the SIG.
2. THE CONTEXT
A. DEVELOPMENT CONTEXT
2.1    Geography and Climate. Senegal is a medium-sized country (196,722 km 2) with 550
km of Atlantic coastline. It is located at the westernmost point of the African Continent.
Senegal is generally flat and lies in the Senegal-Mauritanian Depression. Three-fourths of the
country lies in the Sahel, which has suffered from a lower-than-normal average rainfall for the
last 40 years. The country itself has a tropical sub-desert climate. The rainy season is limited to



2
a seasonal monsoon, wetter in the south (more than 1000 mm from May to October) than in the
north (greater than 300 mm from June to September). The duration, intensity, and seasonal
distribution of the rains at any location varies considerably from year to year, particularly in
areas of lowest rainfall.
2.2    Population and Economy. Senegal population is estimated around 8.5 million
inhabitants. Half is under the age of 16, and the majority (58 percent) lives in rural areas.
Senegal has a per capita income of US$621 (1996). One-third of the population lives below the
poverty line, estimated at US$150 in 1992. Population growth rate is substantially above the real
GDP growth rate (2.5 percent vs. 1.7 percent, 1986-93). This decline in real per capita product
was due to Senegal's inability to adjust to falling terms of trade for its main exports (groundnuts
and phosphates). Senegal shares with many Sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries a lack of
export differentiation that makes it particularly vulnerable to changes in the world prices of its
main exports. The three major exports of Senegal, i.e. phosphates, groundnuts and fish,
represent 77 percent of total exports.
2.3    Since Senegal belongs to the African Financial Community (CFA) franc zone,
adjustment of the nominal exchange rate was, until the end of 1993, out of reach because it
requires unanimous agreement by all CFA zone members and France. A devaluation of the real
exchange rate, which is the crucial variable for competitiveness, was prevented by rigid nominal
wages and by an expansive fiscal policy. The over-evaluation of the exchange rate compounded
the Senegalese economy's loss of competitiveness, owing to the rigid regulation of labor and
widespread monopolies in the industry and service sectors.
2.4    Macroeconomic Performance. Since early 1994, Senegal has been implementing a
medium-term adjustment and reform strategy aimed at taking full advantage of the gain in
competitiveness brought about by the devaluation of the CFA franc (January 12, 1997) and
creating the conditions for strong and sustainable economic growth. This strategy is based on
fiscal and monetary stability and structural reforms. It aims at liberalizing the economy,
reducing the size of the public sector, and fostering private sector development.
2.5    This strategy has resulted in a marked recovery of economic activity and a significant
improvement in Senegal's macroeconomic performance. Real per capita growth became
positive in 1995 and it is estimated at 2.4 percent in 1996. Inflation has been lower than
expected: the CPI fell from 37 percent in 1994 to 5.5 percent in 1995 and is estimated at 3.3
percent in 1996. Fiscal performance has also improved: revenue rose as a percentage of GDP
due to strengthened tax administration, but a failure to adjust petroleum prices to increased world
prices created a shortfall in revenue in 1996. There was no expenditure overrun, while increased
resources were allocated to basic health and education.
2.6    Poverty. Although recent indicators of poverty or income distribution are not available,
the CFA franc devaluation and the resulting shift in internal terms of trade appear to have
boosted incomes in rural areas by 40 percent. Given that the agricultural sector in Senegal is
dominated by small landholders, the large increase in the real value of agricultural output
suggests a substantial improvement in the real living standards of Senegal's rural poor during the
last three years.
2.7    Social Indicators. In spite of real improvements over the last decade, health indicators
show that Senegal's living standards remain below those of other lower-middle income
countries. Infant and child mortality account for 60 percent of all deaths; life expectancy and



3
primary school enrollment are estimated at 50 years and 56 percent respectively as compared to
the Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) averages of 52 years and 70 percent. In education, efforts
continue toward raising the primary enrollment ratio and improving the quality and efficiency of
higher education. The primary enrollment ratio declined from 58 percent in 1989 to about 54.3
percent in 1993, before rising to the current level of 56 percent, with female enrollment growing
faster than male enrollment. The Government has a goal of universal basic education and
intends to raise the primary enrollment ratio to 65 percent by 1998.
2.8   In the health sector, infant mortality declined from 159 (per thousand live births) to 68
between 1975 and 1992 (Demography Health Survey 2, 1992-93). The Government will
reinforce its policy to further improve the quality and efficiency of health care delivery at all
levels. A three-year Public Investment Program - Programme Triennal d 'Investissement
Public (PTIP) - covering the period 1997-99 will give priority to projects that support human
resources development and the fight against poverty. Primary health care has been recently
expanded nationwide with IDA support, and with a better allocation of resources for health
services provided by district health centers and health posts, the budget share of the hospital
sector and urban services decreasing in the mean time from 45 percent during the period 1981 -
1985 to 34 percent during the period 1986 - 1995).
2.9    The Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board on February 16, 1995, aims
to assist Senegal in reducing poverty by restoring growth in per capita income and fostering a
more equitable distribution of the benefits of growth. To relaunch economic growth, the strategy
focuses on increasing opportunities for private sector expansion and improving productivity in
agriculture--particularly in the production of the traditional export (groundnuts), food, and non-
traditional and high value-added crops. To support this growth, the Government should provide
a more efficient and cost-effective provision of public goods such as power, water and
transportation, and an improvement in the human capital base. To foster a more equitable
distribution of benefits, the strategy focuses on improving public resource mobilization and the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of public expenditures-particularly in basic education and
health.
B. SECTORAL CONTEXT
2.10   Introduction. For every population cohort in Senegal, infectious diseases are still the
main cause of mortality and morbidity, with malaria, respiratory infections and diarrhea being
most prevalent. In the past ten years, there has been a recrudescence of epidemic diseases such
as cholera, a steady increase of endemic diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, schistosomiasis
and hepatitis B, and the emergence of new viral diseases such as AIDS. Lastly, the threat of the
development of deadly epidemics such as the cerebral meningitis outbreak, which affected more
than 200,000 persons and killed around 20,000 of them in the sub-region in 1996, became a high
public health concern for the MSPAS and its partners in development.
2.11   Malaria. In Senegal, malaria is the main cause of morbidity, representing between 40
and 50 percent of all consultations (approximately 450,000 reported cases in 1994), one of the
main causes of mortality, and a major burden on society. Based on the sub-regional average cost
of a case of malaria, the economic burden of malaria represents 1 percent of GDP in Senegal
(around US$6 million).
2.12   The parasite is Plasmodiumfalciparum which can cause severe symptoms and lead
rapidly to death. The chief symptom of malaria is fever but the characteristics of the disease



4
vary with the intensity of the infection and the host's level of immunity. The risk of severe
malaria is almost exclusively limited to those who have not acquired a certain level of immunity.
The level of immunity depends on the level of transmission of the disease. Malaria is
responsible for high mortality in children from six months to five years of age (about 25 percent
of all deaths in these groups) who have not yet developed an immunity. Malaria also represents
a serious risk for pregnant women in a first or second pregnancy by causing low birth weight and
high neonatal mortality in first- and second-bom children. A more detailed description of
malaria issues in Senegal is attached in annex 3.
2.13   Human impact due to the disease varies with the great diversity in epidemiological
context and is considered close to the African average, i. e. five to six days' incapacity per acute
attack with an attack rate of 1.5 to 3 per year for children under five and 0.25 per year for older
children and adults. The burden of illness is compounded when affecting mothers of young
children, income-generating members of the family (particularly during outbreaks in the
agricultural season), and young children (which places heavy demands on mothers, affecting the
whole family). Based on sub-regional studies, malaria would account for about I I percent of all
disability adjusted years (DALYs) in Senegal, as in the rest of SSA.
2.14   Schistosomiasis. Schistosomiasis results from a heavy infection with schistosome
trematode worms. Infection follows contact with water bodies contaminated with infected water
snails, which are the intermediate hosts of the parasite. Populations at risk are those who are in
frequent contact with contaminated water bodies, i.e. school-age children, rice-culture workers,
and to a lesser extent, women. The disease kills few people but has sapping chronic effects.
Depending on the type of schistosomiasis, the clinical manifestations of the disease involve
intestinal or urinary complications resulting from reactions to schistosome eggs lodged in these
tissues. Since the risk of complications is related to the intensity of infection, severe pathology
tends to be concentrated in the communities where prevalence is highest. A more detailed
description of the disease and related issues is attached in annex 4.
2.15   Statistically, the relative importance of schistosomiasis in the burden of infectious
diseases is still low in Senegal - 5,300 notified cases in 1994. But the development of
agricultural and irrigation projects which started in the 1980s have led to environmental changes
which favor the spread of schistosomiasis and the emergence of outbreaks such as the epidemic
of intestinal schistosomiasis in the St. Louis region. A prevalence map is attached in annex 4.
The rapid development of the epidemic of intestinal schistosomiasis in the St. Louis region and
the increase in prevalence and intensity rates of urinary schistosomiasis in the rest of the country
have rightly raised Govemment and Donor concem.
2.16   Intestinal schistosomiasis was not significant in Senegal until 1986. Since the start of
the Diama dam on the Senegal river in 1986, an epidemic has spread rapidly in the western part
of the St. Louis region (west to Podor) with a serious risk of extension to the rest of the Senegal
river valley. The epidemic has been characterized by an unceasing transmission, an extremely
rapid re-infestation rate, and high prevalence and intensity rates. Urinary schistosomiasis has
always been endemic in Senegal with a highly focal distribution. High prevalence rates were
found in scattered villages in the Tambacounda, Kolda, Kaolack and Diourbel regions. In the St.
Louis region, with the irrigation and rice development projects, it too has become epidemic,
though at a lower rate than intestinal shistosomiasis.
2.17   Onchocerciasis. Since 1986, the regional Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP), with
MSPAS support, has been responsible for controlling the morbidity due to onchocerciasis in



5
Senegal through an annual large-scale distribution of ivermectin. According to the devolution
process, i.e. process for transferring the responsibility of control activities to Participating
Countries, the Government of Senegal should take over this responsibility progressively and has
requested IDA support during the transition period. The endemic area covers 456 villages,
distributed in six counties of the Tambacounda region and one county of the Kolda region;
200,000 inhabitants are exposed. Demonstrated to be the most cost-effective and sustainable
ivermectin distribution system, community-based distribution has been implemented in 299
villages and should be extended over the next five years to the other 157 endemic villages. A
detailed description of the situation is attached in annex 5.
2.18   National Endemic Disease Service. Both before and since independence, the
organization of the surveillance and control of endemic and epidemic diseases has been under
the administration of the National Endemic Disease Serviceervice National des Grandes
Endemies (SNGE). The SNGE is one of the three National Services and four sub-Directorates
within the Hygiene and Public Health Directorate-Direction de l 'Hygiene et de la Sante
Publique (DHSP}-which is responsible for implementing the health policies adopted by the
Government. The SNGE includes a central unit with 6 high level staff, and 10 regional endemic
disease control units - Secteurs des Grandes Endemies (SGE) - with 4 medical doctors and 60
nurses and health assistants. An organizational chart of the MSPAS and the present distribution
of the SNGE personnel are described in annex 7.
2.19   Over the past 20 years, Senegal, like many Sub-Saharan African countries, did not
develop its capacities to control endemic and epidemic diseases. Resources allocated to the
SNGE steadily decreased to I percent of the MSPAS budget in 1995. Expensive
epidemiological surveillance and control activities could not be financed either by the meager
Government allocation of US$2 per capita/per year for the health sector, or by the population
which has no demand for these services.
2.20   Surveillance and control activities were mainly supported by the donor community with
a disease-by-disease and donor-by-donor approach. Although credited with some successes, this
approach was too costly to be sustainable due to the absence of rationalization in resource
utilization. In the 80s, donors' financial constraints imposed an arbitration between diseases for
financial support. Only a few diseases were accorded the benefit of a well-financed national
control program: leprosy, dracunculosis, onchocerciasis and the diseases of the Expanded
Program for Immunization (EPI). Human, material, and logistical resources were attributed to
these well-supported programs, but with no coordination or rationalization in their utilization
and management. As a consequence, some major diseases, such as malaria, schistosomiasis,
cerebral meningitis and hepatitis B, were not accorded effective surveillance and control
activities, leading to their recrudescence.
2.21   Epidemiological Surveillance System. The national epidemiological surveillance
system has been developed within the SIG but confined to passive surveillance indicators, i.e.
morbidity and mortality, based on health facilities reports. These indicators are generally non-
pertinent and unavailable for the decision-making process. In addition, the system does not
record risk indicators which could be used to prevent epidemics or recrudescence of endemics.
As a consequence, several national programs, such as the National Tuberculosis Control
Program, the National Leprosy Control Program, the Onchocerciasis Control Program, the
STD/AIDS Program, the EPI, and the Nutrition Program, developed their own information
systems. These information systems are centrally managed by the supervisor of the Program.
None of the existing information systems gives practically feedback to the staff at the periphery.



6
2.22   The Health Information System (SIG). The SIG is under the responsibility of the
Statistics Division-Division des Statistiques (DSTAT)- within the DHSP. In 1986 the first
reform of the SIG was initiated. It focused on the management of health services with data
concerning demography, morbidity, mortality, financing, and activities. From 1986 to 1993,
efforts were directed towards the standardization of forms and health indicators. In 1994,
supported by different partners, the MSPAS started computerizing the SIG with the development
of several types of software: (i) GESIB, monitoring the Bamako Initiative activities; (ii)
Logiciel Sante, monitoring data collected from health posts, including mortality and morbidity
data; (iii) SIGeo, background mapping and monitoring of malaria and schistosomiasis indicators
in the St. Louis region, and of dracunculosis in endemic areas; and (iv) the Family Planning
information system. Although promising, these efforts have suffered from a lack of coordination
and expertise in software development, and from the absence of a global plan for the SIG
development. A detailed analysis of issues related to the SIG are attached in Annex 6.
2.23   General Health Services. Since the mid-70s, the Government's policy in the health
sector has emphasized primary health care and preventive medicine and has accorded priority to
the delivery of basic health services to rural areas, where the great majority of the population
lives. A network of 750 health posts and around 8,000 village health workers (VHWs) form the
base of the health care system, serving as its first entry point. The key health providers are the
nurses who staff the health posts. They are responsible for a variety of curative and preventive
services, supervision and in-service training of the VHWs, health and nutrition education, and
record-keeping. Health problems that cannot be resolved at the village or health post level are
referred to the 52 health centers, which constitute the first level of referral and are usually
located in the district capital (department level). These centers are managed by one or two
medical doctors and are designed to provide out-patient and limited in-patient services and
laboratory services, as well as to supervise the health posts. In addition, the 45 health districts
have a Hygiene sub-unit.
2.24   The Country is divided into ten Medical Regions which correspond to the administrative
regions; each Medical Region is constituted of: a) a regional medical team located in the
regional capital and headed by the regional medical officer, b) a regional endemic disease
control unit-Secteur des Grandes Endemies (SGE), and c) a regional hygiene unit-Brigade
Regionale d 'Hygiene (BRH). With the exception of the Kolda and Fatick regions, each region
has a regional hospital located in the regional capital which constitutes the second referral level.
The St Louis region has, in addition, two hospitals in Dioum and Ouorossogui. Three national
hospitals, one university hospital, and a National Center for Tuberculosis located in Dakar
complete the national referral system. Drug procurement and distribution to the regions are
handled by the Pharmacie Nationale d'Approvisionnement (PNA)-a entity under the
jurisdiction of the MSPAS. PNA operates a network of five regional pharmacies-Pharmacie
Regionale d'Approvisionnement.
2.25   Following the Alma-Ata conference in 1978, the Government of Senegal undertook a
major reform to decentralize health services with community participation and to develop
primary health care with the definition of an integrated minimum package of activities. But
activities such as the surveillance and control of endemic and epidemic diseases, though
recognized as essential and with strong externalities, could not be integrated and were practically
left out of the reform process.



7
C. ISSUES
2.26   The global issue relates to the institutional weakness of the MSPAS in mobilizing and
managing its resources to control endemic and epidemic diseases of public health concern. Few
of these diseases are subjected to control activities and even so the management and financing of
these control programs stay out of MSPAS control. As a result, endemic diseases of high public
health importance such as malaria and schistosomiasis are only subject to limited control
activities.
2.27   The first specific issue relates to the SNGE's personnel. The fragmentation of the SNGE
organization has led to the loss of the SNGE mission, the deterioration of the team spirit, and the
degradation of the institutional capacity to tackle global and specific problems posed by endemic
and epidemic diseases. In fact, the SNGE mission is reduced to the management of the few well-
financed control programs without any search for rationalization and cost-effectiveness.
2.28   At the central level, the national coordinators are mostly involved in operational
activities of the control programs for which they are individually responsible and receive donor
financial and logistical support. As individual or as a group, there is no time given to the
conceptualization, monitoring and supervision of non-financed control programs. In addition,
the scattering of the SNGE offices in Dakar contributes to independent (non-cohesive or
duplicate) work and to a loss of cross-fertilization and team work.
2.29   At the peripheral levels, the personnel receives training for, and implement, only well-
funded control activities; and few of them are exposed to integrated training and supervision
programs. None of them are trained for non-funded disease control programs. For example,
training on malaria and schistosomiasis (with the exception of the St Louis region) control
activities is not provided at the peripheral levels. Moreover, there is no incentive for the staff to
promote flexibility and rational management in the utilization of logistic and financial resources.
2.30   The second specific issue is the lack of epidemiological intelligence due to the under-
development of the existing epidemiological surveillance system, and more generally of the
Health Management Information System (SIG). The utilization of the SIG as an alert system,
and in the programming, management, and monitoring of health activities is still very low for the
following reasons: (a) there are at least seven different forms to fill out and more than one
thousand data to report at the health post level each month; (b) many indicators are either
redundant or irrelevant; (c) the system does not allow rapid circulation and consultation of the
collected information; (d) there is no feedback information; and (e) there is no cross-circulation
of information allowing neighboring districts to have access to each other's data and
consequently benefit from each other's experience.
2.31 The third specific issue is the need to maintain a balance between the decentralization
process and the need for quality. Quality often requires technical expertise found mainly at the
regional and national levels. This issue relates not only to the frequency of the activities but also
to the evaluation of the staff capabilities, the relevance of training programs, as well as the
effectiveness of supervisions and support.



8
D. GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND ACTIONS AND THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE
Government Policy and Actions
2.32   The Government's commitment to the development of the health services is embodied in
the National Health Policy statement adopted in June 1989, and in the recently developed
document entitled "Nouvelles Orientations de la Politique de Sante et de l 'Action Sociale, juin
1995." This approach is consistent with the strategy outlined in the 1993 World Development
Report published by the World Bank, and the World Bank Africa Region policy paper, Better
Health in Africa, and constitutes a good framework for the development of the health sector.
Preparation of a ten-year National Health Development Plan and a five-year investment program
to implement this framework was completed in March 1997, with the support of multilateral and
bilateral donors.
2.33  In these documents the Government reaffirms its commitment to the reinforcement of
endemic disease control through the development and implementation of: (i) epidemiological
surveillance and control activities for endemic and epidemic diseases; (ii) a National Training
Policy which would be effective and integrated; and (iii) a computerized and integrated health
information system.
2.34   With regard to malaria control, the Republic of Senegal participated in the Ministerial
Conference on Malaria in Amsterdam in 1992 and co-signed the final Declaration, reaffirming
its commitment to pursuing malaria control as an essential element of the health development of
the country. A National Malaria Control Program was finalized in September 1995 based on the
strategy recommended by the Ministerial Conference. The strategy relies on the improvement of
case management at household and health facility levels, vector control with impregnated
bednets, and development of an epidemiological information system.
2.35   With regard to schistosomiasis control, in 1991 the Government created in the St. Louis
region the program ESPOIR to coordinate schistosomiasis-related research and control activities,
with the financial and technical support of the EU, the FAC, the Pasteur Institute and different
European universities.
The World Bank's Experience in Senegal
2.36   The World Bank Group's involvement in the health sector in Senegal includes the Rural
Health Project (Cr. 13 10-SEN), signed on February 2, 1983, and closed in 1989, whose objective
was to support the improvement of primary health care in rural areas, and the Human Resources
Development Project (Cr. 9180-SEN), closed in March 1997, whose health objectives were to
support the extension of primary health care services in three regions, the decentralization
nationwide of health planning and management, and the promotion of essential generic drugs.
2.37   The Rural Health Project had mixed success in attaining its objectives. Project activities
contributed to completing coverage nationwide with respect to health centers. However, the
accompanying improvements in service quality that were expected through the training have
been less satisfactory due principally to the lack of an integrated and well-defined training
strategy. Progress was made in the development of a pharmaceutical sector strategy, including
improvements in the official list of essential drugs, preparation of practical recommendations for
the reform of the National Pharmacy, and recommendations for improvements in the drug cost
recovery system.



9
2.38   The Human Resources Development Project has successfully tested the acceptability of
generic drugs and has demonstrated the willingness and ability of communities to pay for health
services as well as manage cost-recovery schemes. On the other hand, the project highlighted:
(a) the difficulties in dealing with human resource management reforms in the absence of greater
decentralization of health system management and broader civil service reform; (b) the limited
capacity of central administrative structures to redefine their roles away from direct control and
management toward strategic and support functions; and (c) the need for major legislative and
regulatory reform of the pharmaceutical sub-sector to achieve a meaningful shift to generic drug
procurement and distribution.
2.39   Upon Government request, a SIP is under preparation and will be appraised during
FY97. This program would contribute to provide the administrative structure for monitoring all
government and donor activities within the health sector and its sub-sectors, i. e. peripheral,
regional and central facilities, health finance, health insurance, human resource development.
The SIP would encompass the project.
2.40   The project would be launched approximately 12 months before SIP effectiveness.
Although the project was designed according to the National Health and Social Development
Plan, and developed in the context of the SIP preparation, the Government decided (with IDA
tacit agreement) to bring forward its implementation for two reasons. First, for the SIP to be
effective in developing and coordinating MSPAS and donor activities in the area of endemic
diseases control, the SNGE must be reformed and strengthened. Second, the SIP implementation
will require the development of a reliable health management information system. It will be a
great advantage for these elements to be well advanced when the SIP becomes effective. The
management of the proposed project will be merged with the SIP management when the latter is
in place.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.41   The Country Assistance Strategy aims to assist Senegal in reducing poverty by restoring
growth in per capita income. Part of the Government's strategy consists of improving the human
capital base through the provision of basic education and health services. To improve the health
of the population, health services should be able to control infectious diseases which are the
main cause of mortality and morbidity for every population cohort. By strengthening the
MSPAS capacity to control infectious diseases, the project would be an important mean of the
Bank's assistance strategy.
2.42  In recent years, through different initiatives worldwide, the Bank, in collaboration with
the Donor community, has been seeking to reduce the burden of malaria, schistosomiasis and
onchocerciasis, particularly with regard to women and children. It has been proven that these
three endemic diseases hamper human development in Sub-Saharan Africa. Controlling them
would thus have a strong economic rate of return. Given the fragmented donors' support in the
area of surveillance and control of endemic disease, with the current program-by-program and
donor-by-donor approach, IDA is the only possible support to Government efforts in designing
and implementing a comprehensive institutional reform in this area. The traditional role the
Bank has played in promoting supportive and effective donor coordination will be crucial in this
area, as well as in that of the SIG development.



10
2.43   In addition, many components of the project have financial requirements that are beyond
the capacity of local resources or those available through existing or planned donor programs.
The IDA Credit sought by the Government would complement these resources.
2.44   The proposed project is the first IDA credit aiming specifically to strengthen the
surveillance and control of endemic disease in Senegal, as well as throughout the West-African
sub-region. However, the Bank has supported similar projects in Brazil and Egypt. Project
preparation and design have benefited from the experience gained through these projects.
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
3.1    Project Objectives. The global objective of the project is to support the Government in
its efforts to alleviate the burden of endemic and epidemic diseases on the Senegalese
populations, with, in particular, a reduction of the burden of malaria, schistosomiasis and
onchocerciasis. In its Letter of Sub-Sector Policy (Annex 2), Government has established the
following benchmarks for the year 2002: (a) reduce by 25 percent the infant mortality
attributable to malaria; (b) reduce by 90 percent the school-age children morbidity attributable
to urinary schistosomiasis; and (c) eliminate the risk of blindness due to onchocerciasis.
Progress toward these objectives would be assessed with a Burden of Disease Analysis and an
economic analysis based on data twice collected by the SIG--once after two years of SIG
implementation, and again at project completion. During negotiations, Governmentfurnished
the Letter of Sub-Sector Policy, including the project monitoring indicators (para. 6.1 (a)).
3.2    Project Strategy. The project strategy is two-fold. First, the project aims to
demonstrate, with the example of the management of malaria, schistosomiasis and
onchocerciasis surveillance and control activities, the feasibility, effectiveness and efficiency of
developing the concept of integration within the peripheral health services, in conjunction with
the community. By project completion, it would be desirable that control activities for the
endemic and epidemic diseases of public health importance be fully integrated. Second, the
project aims to reinforce the national capacity in conceptualizing, managing and conducting
endemic and epidemic disease control activities by reforming the SNGE at central and peripheral
levels and implementing nationwide a computerized health management information system,
including an epidemiological surveillance system.
3.3    Project Scope. The project would be implemented nationwide, with the exception of the
schistosomiasis control activities in the St. Louis region. These control activities will not be
subjected to a specific support from the project for the following reasons: (a) they are subjected
to several donor's supports, particularly to an important EU's support; (b) the EU is considering
to increase its financial support; and (c) an additional support in controlling the epidemic will be
forthcoming from the proposed World Bank Regional Hydropower Development Project
(scheduled for May 1997 Board consideration), with the financing of feasibility studies for
reducing the man-vector contacts in infected villages. However, the project will contribute to the
global effort against the epidemic through the national and local reinforcement of the SNGE.
The execution of the pilot projects would be coordinated by the Organization for the
Development of the Senegal River (OMVS) which will work closely with the St. Louis Medical
Region staff, the Program ESPOIR, and the SNGE.



I1
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4    Project Components. To help achieve these objectives, the project would support
policy measures and investments designed to: (a) improve the management and implementation
of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis control activities at central and peripheral levels;
(b) develop an integrated and computerized health management information system (SIG) and its
use; and c) strengthen the SNGE capabilities at central and peripheral levels and the DHSP
ability in project management. The composition of the investment program is summarized
below.
3.5    Progress in achieving sectoral development and project implementation objectives would
be measured against a set of monitoring indicators, developed by and agreed upon with the
Government. They would form an integral part of the Government's Letter of Sub-Sector
Policy. Measurable indicators are listed in Annex 1. Recurrent cost implications and resulting
budget shares are given in Annex 11.
Proiect Summarv
-US$  illjan
i. Malaria, Schistosomiasis and Onchocerciasis Control                 4.61
- Operational Activities                                               (3.64)
- Monitoring and Evaluation Activities                                 (0.97)
2. Health Managernent Information System                               126
- System Development                                                   (2.48)
- Monitoring and Evaluation Activities                                 (0.78)
3. Institutional Strengthening of the SNGE and DHSP                    211
- Central Level of the SNGE                                            (3.81)
- Peripheral and Regional Capacities                                   (3.31)
- Project Administration                                               (0.19)
L. Support to Malaria, Schistosomiasis and Onchocerciasis Control Activities (US$4.61
million)
3.6    The overall objective of this component is to initiate and develop at the peripheral levels
an operational and managerial organization in the area of surveillance and control of endemic
and epidemic diseases. The project would specifically support this effort for three endemic
diseases, i.e. malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis, expecting this approach could then be
extended to all endemic and epidemic diseases. Surveillance and control activities would be
included in the five-year District and Regional Health Development Plans to be adjusted each
year according to the decentralization process. The budget allocation process, including
allocations provided for under this project, would be based on these plans after revision and
adjustments by the MSPAS and Donors, once the SIP becomes effective. Central and regional
SNGE staff would support medical districts and regions in the elaboration of these plans.
(a)    Operational Activities (US$3.64 million)
3.7    Scope and Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to implement malaria,
schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis control activities at peripheral levels with an eye to
rationalization and sustainability. Control of endemic diseases, in particular malaria,
schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis, ensues from the disease-specific adjustment of the following
generic activities: (a) the improvement of the quality of case management at health facilities
through training of care providers in diagnosis, treatment, referral practices, counseling and



12
interpersonal communication; (b) the improvement of the case management and prevention at
the household level through information and education campaigns covering recognition of signs
and symptoms of illness, appropriate treatment and proper health-seeking behaviors; (c) the
implementation of large-scale treatment or prevention campaigns for targeted populations; and
(d) the use of selective measures against vectors. Specific guidelines pertaining to each of the
three diseases targeted by the project are developed below.
Improvement of Case Management at Health Facilities.
3.8    Regarding malaria, the project aims to improve, via training of health care providers,
the management of patients with fever illness, primarily among children under five, and the
prevention or management of malaria and anemia in pregnant women. Regarding
schistosomiasis, the project aims to improve, via training of health post nurses, the diagnosis by
developing the utilization of chemical reagent strips, and the treatment by promoting the
prescription of praziquantel. The SGEs would organize with the support of trainers, i.e. medical
district officers, hospital medical doctors lab assistants, the training of 1,100 nurses and
midwives and 160 private practitioners. Trainers would be trained through regular programs to
be organized in the context of the strengthening of the SNGE.
3.9   Project Support. The project would finance: (a) the training of nurses, midwives and
practitioners; and (b) the supplying of an initial stock of praziquantel and chemical reagent
strips (approximately 2,000 tablets and 1,000 strips for each of the 320 health centers and posts)
whose replenishment would be covered by the health post income.
Population Information and Education
3.10.  Regarding malaria, the project aims to improve at the household level the management
of fever in children under five through information an education of household caretakers, and
raise the awareness of pregnant women in order to develop their demand for health services and
prevention measures. Regarding schistosomiasis, the project aims to increase, via information
and education, the population awareness, in particular the high-risk schoolchildren population, to
improve their knowledge about: (a) the disease cycle, symptoms and risks; (b) the prevention
measures; and (c) the personal and community hygiene and sanitation.
3.11   The SNGE would contract out the design of IEC campaigns and the production of
posters, leaflets, batiks and boites a images. Household caretakers would be reached with the
help of the national federation of women's association (La Federation Nationale des
Groupements Feminins). In each region, district and village, the association would organize
regular talks and chats with the support of the information tools mentioned above. UNICEF
would technically support the training of opinion leaders and the organization of the talks and
chats. These activities would be done on an integrated basis whenever warranted. School
children would receive public health instruction, particularly regarding schistosomiasis, from
their school teachers who will have been properly trained by the SGE staff with UNICEF
support.
3.12   Project Support. The project would finance: (i) consultant services for the design and
production of national IEC campaigns; (ii) the education of opinion leaders and school teachers;
and (iii) the organization of monthly talks and chats by the national federation of women's
association for the benefit of household caretakers.



13
Large Scale Treatment and Selective Measures Against Vectors
3.13   Malaria. The project aims to support selective vector control through the development
of the nighttime utilization of bednets impregnated with insecticide-Niclosamide. Experience
in Gambia has shown that the use of bednets can produce an important reduction in childhood
mortality and morbidity, when it is accepted by the population. But the Gambian experience was
successful only as long as the impregnation was provided free of charge. As a lesson from the
Gambian experience, it would be premature and risky in Senegal to determine up-front the
strategy for bednet distribution and impregnation.
3.14   The project strategy is to employ a sequential approach. The SNGE, with the technical
support of WHO, would conduct: (a) during the first year, operational research projects and
studies of the opportunities and modalities for support to local production and commercialization
of bednets, of different options for the organization of impregnation, and of possible
implementation of a cost recovery system; (b) during the second year, the testing of one or two
alternatives of organization and functioning of the system and their articulation within the health
services; and (c) during the last three years, the full incorporation of the assessed strategy into
the health services. Given the financial constraints of both the population and the Government,
the project has anticipated, for financing, the results of the operation research and has considered
to support the implementation of a private production of bednets, and a Government-supported
impregnation system. The BRHs would be responsible for the bednet impregnation, and their
staff would receive appropriate training, organized by the SNGE.
3.15   Schistosomiasis. The project aims to control the transmission in highly focal
transmission villages through the concomitant use of molluscicides-niclosamide-against
vectors and the large-scale distribution of praziquantel to schoolchildren. During the first year of
the project, it is planed to treat the 60 villages identified during the prevalence study in March
1996 with an initial prevalence rate among school children of over 50 percent. During the
following years, high-transmission villages and hamlets would be identified by local infection
and re-infection rates in humans to be evaluated by rapid epidemiological assessment to be
jointly conducted by SGE and district teams.
3.16   School teachers would carry out the distribution of praziquantel to the schoolchildren
population of identified villages, under the supervision of medical district teams and SGEs with
UNICEF technical support. The project has estimated that approximately 3,000 school children
would be treated the first year; the number of children to be treated decreasing the following
years. Appropriate treatment of infected ponds and water bodies with niclosamide in identified
villages would be carried out by the BRHs' staff who would have received an appropriate
training to be organized by the SNGE. At the end of the first three years of this operation, the
SNGE would conduct an assessment study to evaluate the feasibility, effectiveness and cost of
focal mollusciciding, concentrating on the reduction of incidence and re-infection rates in treated
villages and research results.
3.17   Onchocerciasis. The project aims to generalize and consolidate the ivermectin
community-distribution system in the onchocerciasis areas. The strategy consists of: (a) the
training of health post nurses in supervision of the distribution of ivermectin by VHWs; (b) the
identification and training of 314 VHWs by the regional and district teams in the remaining 157
villages; (c) the provision of ivermectin from the district to the village via the health post; and
(d) the information and education of the population of the 456 exposed villages. Ivermectin will



14
be given free of charge by the pharmaceutical company Merck, Sharp & Dohme for as long as
necessary.
3.18   Project Support. The project would finance: (a) the procurement and distribution of
150,000 bednets and 18.000 liters of deltamethrine in the context of the operational research, of
2 tons of niclosamid and 5.000 tablets of praziquantel for urinary schistosomiasis vector control
and large-scale treatment of the schoolchildren population respectively, of ivermectin; and of
consumables; (b) the supervision missions; (c) assessment studies of the different options to
implement a sustainable market of impregnated bednets; (d) malacological and sociological
studies in highly infected areas with schistosomiasis; (e) an evaluation study at the end of the
three years of schistosomiasis control activities; (f) training of BRHs staff in the utilization of
deltamethrine and niclosamide; (g) training of approximately 400 health post nurses and VHW
in ivermectin community distribution; and (h) the organization of yearly information and
education campaigns in the 456 villages exposed to onchocerciasis. WHO-Afro would
technically support the operational research related to the development of the utilization of
impregnated bednets.
3.19   Implementation Arrangements. The SNGE and SGEs would be responsible for the
implementation of this sub-component jointly with medical district and regional teams.
Activities related to the treatment with niclosamide, and to the bednet impregnation with
deltamethrine would be carried out by the BRHs. Activities related to the education and
information of the household caretakers would be carried out by the national federation of
women's associations (La Feidration Nationale des Groupements Fiminins) with the technical
assistance of UNICEF. Operational research and studies relating to the development of the
utilization of impregnated bednets, to be conducted during the first two years, would be entrusted
to the WHO resident mission in Senegal under the general responsibility of the SNGE.
Procurement, stocking, and distribution of bednets, deltamethrine, niclosamide, praziquantel and
ivermectin would be the responsibility of the PNA at the central and regional levels, and of the
medical districts from the regional level to villages.
(b)    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.97 million)
3.20   Scope and Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to develop capacity not
only at central level but also at regional and district levels to monitor and analyze data relevant
to the surveillance and control of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis. The
empowerment of peripheral staff in the management of surveillance and control activities would
strongly implement the concept of integration and rationalization in the domain of endemic and
epidemic disease control. Using the analytic and connecting capabilities of the computerized
SIG, the SNGE would develop a malaria outbreak prevention system, to be extended to other
diseases later on. It would also conduct operational research and evaluation studies related to
malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis. As onchocerciasis is concerned, the OCP would
provide technical assistance to the SNGE in the area of operational research, and in ivermectin
donation applications.
3.21   Outbreak Prevention System. The development of forecasting and prevention
strategies for malaria outbreaks will be undertaken in the area along the Senegal river valley, i.e.
the St. Louis Region and the Bakel district of the Tambacounda Region. These areas of unstable
malaria transmission are affected by periodic local outbreaks which may produce serious
increases of mortality and incapacity. The SNGE and the St. Louis SGE with the support of
WHO and short-term technical assistance would undertake:



15
(a)    during the first year: (i) the study of potential determinants of epidemic risk in
the area; (ii) the mapping of the areas affected by each major determinant and
the identification of localities at risk; (iii) the definition of indicators with
predictive value; and (iv) the negotiation for the acquisition of timely
information on their variation;
(b)    during the second year: (i) the validation and incorporation of indicators into the
SIG; (ii) the organization of alarm mechanisms, emergency preparedness and
response capabilities; and (iii) the evaluation of the system; and
(c)    during the last three years, the operationalization of the system and the extension
to other epidemic diseases.
3.22   Operational Research and Evaluation. The SNGE and SGEs with the support of
short-term technical assistance would undertake regular studies and operational research to
assess:
(a)    with regard to malaria, (i) the validity of regular malaria morbidity and
mortality reporting; (ii) drug resistance; (iii) mosquito resistance to insecticide;
(iv) malaria case containment at the community level; (v) chemoprophylaxis for
pregnant women; and (vi) the acceptability of impregnated bednets;
(b)    with regard to schistosomiasis, (i) the prevalence of urinary schistosomiasis in
the treated population in the context of the project; (ii) the quality of field
management and program management; (iii) the snail control techniques; and
(iv) the development of new health education, management, monitoring and
evaluation and surveillance approaches.  Priority topics for the operational
program are presented in Annex 4; and
(c)    with regard to onchocerciasis, the quality of information and education
activities.
3.23   Project Support. The project would finance: (i) consultant services for the studies and
operational research; (ii) equipment and furniture; and (iii) operating costs.
II. Health Management Information System (US$3.26 million)
3.24   The objectives of this component are: (i) to implement a national computerized network
between the district, regional and central levels of the MSPAS to support an integrated, flexible
and communicative SIG, and develop its management and utilization by the health staff at each
level of the health pyramid; and (ii) to build the capacity within the MSPAS to monitor, evaluate
and improve the utilization of the SIG. The opportunity of live communication offered by the
network between district, regional and central health facilities would benefit the development of
feedback information which has been demonstrated to be a major incentive for peripheral health
staff to comply with policies and strategies. A description of the computerized network
supporting the SIG is detailed in annex 6.
3.25   In the specific context of control of endemic and epidemic diseases, the SIG with its
epidemiological surveillance and alert system would be of the highest importance because fast
reaction and control strategy adjustment depend on the capacities to be informed as early as



16
possible with relevant indicators and analysis. The computerization of the SIG would also allow
the integration of environmental and geographical data in the analysis process and its
instantaneous distribution nationwide. This capacity would be particularly relevant to the
suiveillance of severe Sahelian malaria outbreaks which are often linked to the pluviometry and
ocod levels.
3.26   A Health Information Council would be created to regulate and monitor the use of the
SIG, and evaluate the impact on the MSPAS work culture. During its first years of existence, it
is expected that the SIG would not only evolve but also initiate an evolution within the MSPAS.
As mentioned earlier, the new internal connectivity would bring about a major culture change
within the MSPAS services, which should be carefully assessed and taken into account in the
reflection about future reforms and global programs in the sector. This Council would include as
a rtinimum the heads of the MSPAS Directorates and Services, university and research experts,
and the MSPAS partners in development. A permanent secretariat would be held by the DSTAT.
(a)    System Development and Implementation (US$2.48 million)
3.27   Scope and Objectives. The objective of the sub-component is the implementation and
utilization of a national computerized network which would support and integrate all present and
future health information systems. The DHSP, with the assistance of the consulting firm Mazars
& Guerard acting as contract manager, would: (a) analyze the existing specific health
information systems; (b) rationalize and structure the computerized SIG data collection and
analysis (cahier des charges); (c) establish the specifications and procedures for the
procurement of 12 servers (one in each region and two at the center), 141 computers (50 at the
center, three per MR, and one per medical district), and server software and consumables as
necessary to allow network implementation; (d) elaborate terms of reference and selection
processes for specialist services in charge of developing the network software, testing the system
in one pilot area, extending it nationwide and training staff in network utilization; and (e)
r onitor the contract execution and establish certification of services rendered until full
completion. The DHSP via its sub-Directorates and Services would undertake, with the
assistance of USAID, UNICEF and EU, the organization of training programs in the utilization
of the SIG in the following components: epidemiological surveillance, Family Planning, and
more generally health district activities management.
3.28   Project Support. The project would finance: (a) the procurement of servers,
computers, server's software and consumables; (b) the specialist services for the contract
management, and the development of the software; and (c) the training of district and regional
officers, as well as the SNGE staff, in the utilization of the SIG for epidemiological surveillance
purposes. The EU would finance temporary technical assistance to support training in the
utilization of this software.
3.29   Implementation Arrangements. Contract management for the development of the
computerized network will be contracted on a single-source selection basis to Mazars & Guerard
for continuity purpose since the firm has designed the system to the satisfaction of Government
and the donors during project preparation. Two package sets would be subjected to ICB. The
first would relate to goods and include the hardware equipment, the second would relate to
consultant services and include the software programming, network implementation, training and
skill transfer.



17
(b)    Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.78 million)
3.30   Scope and Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to reinforce the
capacities of the MSPAS to manage the SIG by: (i) strengthening the DSTAT-Service des
Statistiques-in maintenance, monitoring and evaluation of the SIG; and (ii) creating the Health
Information Council. To guarantee a high sustainability level for the network technical
maintenance by the DSTAT, the MSPAS would contract, on a two year basis, a local private
computer maintenance firm to provide two computer engineers as long term technical assistants
to the DSTAT.
3.31   Project Support. The project would finance: (i) consultant services of the local private
firm to provide the two computer engineers; (ii) consultant services to assist the Health
Information Council in conducting studies and organizing regular conferences and workshops;
and (iii) on a declining basis, incremental recurrent costs incurred by the network utilization,
such as consumables, maintenance equipment and telephone communication.
3.32   Implementation Arrangements. The implementation of the sub-component would be
the responsibility of the Head of the DSTAT. The project management will be responsible for
the recruitment and monitoring of the local firm to provide two computer scientist engineers.
lII. Institutional Strengthening of the SNGE (US$ 7.31 million)
3.33   The global objective of this component is to rebuild the institutional capacity of the
SNGE to efficiently survey and control endemic and epidemic diseases. The mandate and
organization of the SNGE would be redefined in the context of the decentralization of the health
services and the search for better rationalization in resources utilization. As a condition for
Credit effectiveness, the Government will adopt a new organizational and administrative
structure of the SNGE, satisfactory to IDA (para 6.3 (a)). The strategy would consist in first
developing the capacity to conceptualize and manage surveillance and control programs at the
central level; and second in reinforcing the capacity to adjust and implement these programs at
the regional and district levels.
(a)    Strengthening the Central Level of the SNGE (US$ 3.81 million)
3.34   Scope and Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to develop at the central
level a highly competent team of civil servants with a strong team spirit and public health
interest. The strategy would consist of: (a) regrouping the SNGE scattered staff within a
renovated state-owned building, accommodating the other DHSP services and directorates, and
the other MSPAS Services as well; (b) building up the team spirit among the staff, with the
support of consultant services; (c) developing staff capacities through training courses; and (d)
providing SNGE with resources to achieve its mission. In the particular context of the project,
and in line with its mandate, the SNGE would: (a) organize annual refresher courses for its staff;
(b) revise and/or design national control programs for endemic and epidemic diseases, with
consecutive training modules and guidelines; (c) organize national information campaigns; (d)
hold regular and frequent meetings with the decentralized staff during the first years to
implement the new culture and mission of the SNGE; and (e) undertake Burden of Disease
Analysis and sound economic analysis.
3.35   Project Support. The project would finance: a) the civil works to rehabilitate the state-
owned building; b) equipment and furniture to the DHSP and DAGE; c) five vehicles for the



18
SNGE central unit; d) the local and international consultant services for: (i) the design and
supervision of the civil works, (ii) the build-up of teamwork and esprit de corps, (iii) the design
of national control programs, (iv) the preparation of two burden of diseases analysis and
economic analysis, and (v) the design and implementation of national information campaigns; e)
the training and study tours for the staff; and f) the recurrent costs incurred by the regular
operations, maintenance and supervision activities such as vehicle operation and maintenance,
and staff travel allowances.
3.36   During negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA the documents showing that the
building to be rehabilitated is state-owned and has been officially earmarkedfor the MSPAS
(para. 6.1 (b)).
3.37   Implementation Arrangements. The civil works component including the
procurement of furniture and equipment for office rehabilitation, will be given to the executing
agency AGETIP which will be in charge of contract management (Maitre d'Ouvrage Delegue),
consultant services, and suppliers and contractors.
(b)    Strengthening District and Regional Capacities (US$ 3.31 million)
3.38   Scope and Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to build capacity at
regional and district levels to implement and manage activities related to the surveillance and
control of endemic and epidemic diseases. In line with the decentralization process and
development of Regional Health Development Plans, SGEs staff would be responsible for
adjusting to local situations (even conceptualizing to a certain extent), implementing, and
supervising these national control programs. SGEs'staff would participate to the preparation of
Regional and District Health Plans. A plan would be developed to integrate SGE activities with
the Medical Region activities and to rationalize the human, material, and financial resources of
both teams. The strategy would consist of: a) bringing the SGE and Medical Region teams
closer together through the relocation of SGE facilities onto the Medical Region premises,
whenever necessary and feasible; b) upgrading through training the capacity of SGE and district
staff to execute their mission; and c) providing facilities and budget for supervision and IEC
activities, focal studies and surveys.
3.39   Training would be available for district and regional medical officers, and for hospital
and district laboratory assistants. The training program would consist of annual refresher
courses and opportunities for short-term training in Centres d 'excellence in countries within the
sub-region. Training will be crucial for medical officers and staff of the SGEs to successfully
carry out the responsibilities resulting from the decentralization process. Due to the project-by-
project approach it has always been difficult to integrate the training activities for the different
disease control programs. First, a pilot course of integrated training would be provided for lab
assistants. Second, SGE and district medical staff would receive an integrated training on the
surveillance and control activities of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis. To design
these training courses the SNGE would contract experts from local universities, hospitals, and
scientific institutions. Eventually, these courses would become part of the national training
program after a review and evaluation process.
3.40   The financial ability to carry out regular and frequent supervision, focal studies and
surveys would be essential to the SGE and medical district teams. Facilities and budget would
be provided by the project for two years; future budget needs should be assessed in the context of
the Regional and District Health Development Plans prepared in the context of the SIP.



19
3.41   Project Support. The project would finance: (a) renovation costs to integrate the SGE
offices within the medical Region premises and prepare one apartment for the SGE medical
chief; (b) equipment and furniture for each SGE office and the laboratory equipment for each
medical district lab; (c) two vehicles per SGE; (d) consultant services for the design and
supervision of civil works, and for the design and organization of regional IEC campaign on
endemic and epidemic disease control; (e) the training component for annual refresher courses
for regional and district staff and supervisors, as well as for laboratory assistants and short-term
training in the sub-region; and (f) the recurrent costs incurred by the supervision activities by
SGEs and medical district staff, including the operation and maintenance of office equipment
and vehicles.
(c)    Project Management (US$0.19 million)
3.42   Scope and Objectives. Until the SIP is in place, the financial and technical
management of the project would be the responsibility of the Deputy-Director of DHSP. He
would be assisted by a project officer whose assignment would be on a bi-annual assignment
basis, renewable with satisfactory performance, and whose terms of reference and qualifications
would be acceptable to IDA. In addition, support would be provided by the accountant of the
DHSP whose qualifications are acceptable to IDA, and one secretary hired on a contractual basis.
Audits, paid for by the Project, would be done every year. To enable the DHSP to carry out the
project-related activities upon project start, a limited quantity of equipment will be provided
early on. Facilities and non-incremental recurrent budget expenditures would be provided by the
Government to allow effective project implementation.
3.43   When the SIP is in place, the financial management of the project would be merged into
the SIP management within the DAGE. Management of project technical activities would
continue to be the responsibility of the DHSP.
3.44   Project Support. The project would finance: (i) office equipment and furniture; (ii) 2
vehicles; (iii) consultant services for audit, accountant and short-term support services; and (iv)
the recurrent costs incurred by the operation and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles.
C. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.45   Project Cost. The total cost of the project, including taxes, is estimated at about
US$17.0 million, with a base cost of US$15.2 million and a foreign exchange component of
US$9.8 million. Price contingencies estimated at US$0.8 million, assume an annual domestic
inflation of 3 percent and a foreign inflation rate of 3 percent. Physical contingencies are
estimated at about US$1.0 million (6 percent of base cost). IDA would finance about 87.6
percent of total project costs (US$14.9 million). The Government would contribute US$0.9
million equivalent. The European Union (EU) would finance US$0.3 million equivalent. The
French Government would finance US$0.7 million equivalent. UNICEF would finance US$0.1
million equivalent. WHO would finance US$0.1 million equivalent. Detailed project costs are
provided in Annex 11.
3.46   Recurrent Costs Implications. Total recurrent costs generated by the project are
estimated at around US$2.46 million for the life of the project, with an annual average of
US$0.49 million. During the implementation phase of the project, the Government's share of the
expenditures is estimated at 10 percent for administrative costs, cost of goods and works, or



20
approximately US$0.4 million. At project closing, for proceeding with different activities, the
Government will allocate to US$1.66 million, corresponding to the project's supervision costs as
well as the additional costs associated with its activities, including the purchase of consumable
goods, vehicle maintenance, equipment and materials, and contracts for the maintenance of the
computer information network by a private sector operator. Pharmaceutical acquisitions will be
assured by the beneficiaries. Throughout the duration of the project, additional expenditures
should correspond to 13.8 percent of actual investments, of which US$0.4 million will form part
of the Government's budget and shall represent 0.6 percent of the MSPAS budget, following the
hypothesis of evolution as described above and projected for the year 2000.
3.47   Cost-effectiveness Analysis. Strategies adopted by the MSPAS in the control of
malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis have been proven on several occasions to be cost-
effective, in particular in countries within the sub-region. Nevertheless, it would be necessary to
assess the cost-effectiveness of each strategy in the global context of the cost of control activities
for all diseases. As a prerequisite for such evaluation, a valid health management information
system is essential. Given the scope and precedence of the proposed project, a Burden of
Disease Analysis and an economic analysis based on data collected by the SIG would be done
twice--once after two years of SIG implementation and once at project completion.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND READINESS
4.1    History and Development of the Project. Financial requests made by the Republic of
Senegal to IDA for the National Malaria Control Program and the Onchocerciasis Devolution
Plan initiated a dialogue with the MSPAS on the merits and potential for the proposed project. A
project identification mission in October 1995 assessed the overall rationale and feasibility of
strengthening the national capacity for surveillance and control of endemic diseases. During the
project identification mission, the DHSP held a seminar to define the framework of the proposed
project. Preparation missions in February and April 1996 were able to make considerable
progress in project preparation and in coordination between all different programs and donors.
Revision of the project proposals as agreed with the preparatory missions was accomplished
smoothly by the Government and the project was appraised in December 1996.
4.2    With regards to the malaria sub-component, the implementation manual of the control
program was finalized during the preparation stage. The project preparation stage was used to
develop a constituency around the National Malaria Control Program. Eighteen operational
research papers were produced through a joint-venture between the MSPAS staff and the Dakar
Medical University staff and students. There has been an agreement between all actors on the
key issues, the strategy to solve them and the implementing agency. At the same time, training
activities for field staff were launched to try to curb the impact of the malarial season in October
and November 1996.
B. PROJECT COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.3    Until the SIP is in place, management and coordination of project activities will be
carried out by the DHSP of the Ministry of Health. The Deputy-Director of the DHSP will be
appointed as the project Director and receive the responsibility of facilitating the coordination of



21
activities among different departments of the MSPAS involved in the project implementation.
The organigramme of the DHSP is in annex 7. Day-to-day activities will be carried out by a
project manager who will be assisted by the DHSP accountant and a secretary. The project
manager who is also a DHSP staff has been designated during project preparation and has
received training sponsored by the Bank in disbursement and procurement procedures. During
negotiations, the Government appointed. the Deputy-Director of DHSP as the Project Director,
the project manager and DHSP accountant whose qualifications and terms of reference are
acceptable to IDA (para. 6.1 (c)). When the SIP is in place, the financial management of the
project would be merged into the SIP management within the DAF. Management of project
technical activities would continue to be the responsibility of the DHSP.
4.4    Coordination and consolidation of financial accounts and monitoring of project
implementation outcomes will be under the responsibility of the project manager who will ensure
that the following tasks are oarried out: (a) coordination of the preparation of annual work
programs and budget for all project components; (b) procurement of goods and services, and
recruitment of consultants; (c) maintaining and consolidating all project accounts, including the
special account; (d) preparation of necessary documentation for withdrawal of proceeds from the
Credit account; (e) making arrangements for the audit of project accounts and Statement of
Expenses; and (f) organization of annual and mid-term reviews of project implementation.
C. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.5    The monitoring and evaluation of project performance and outcomes are an integral part
of each component and will be carried out by the respective component implementation units
over the life of the project, with the DHSP playing a coordinating role. Key monitoring
indicators are shown in Annex 1. In its role as project coordinator, the DHSP will organize in
November of each year, beginning in 1997, a joint IDA-Government review of project
implementation with the participation of other development partners, based on the progress
reports and expenditure statements of the past year, and annual work programs and budgets for
the following year. In addition, the DHSP will prepare a mid-term review of project
implementation, to be conducted jointly by IDA and the Government in November 1999. Details
of the Bank's supervision plan and of the annual and mid-term reviews, are provided in Annex 9.
The results of the mid-term review will be incorporated in an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for
further implementation of the project. In addition, the Government will, within six months of the
Credit closing, submit an implementation completion report (ICR), in accordance with the
guidelines for the preparation of a completion report applicable at that time. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurance to this effect (para. 6.2 (a)).



22
Table 4.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
International    National         Other\2      NBF/3          Total
Project Element               Competitive     Competitive
Bidding         Bidding
1. Works                        1.67             1.17                                       2.84
(1.55)          (1.00)/1                                   (2.55)
2. Goods
- Equipment,Vehicles, materials  2.71                            0.19                       2.90
(2.71)                          (0.19)                     (2.90)
- Drugs, Chemicals              0.98                                                        0.98
(0.98)                                                     (0.98)
- Fumiture                                       0.19                                       0.19
(0.17)                                    (0.17)
3. Training                                                      2.01         0.29          2.30
(2.01)                    (2.01)
4. IEC                                                            0.37                      0.37
(0.37)                    (0.37)
S. Consultant Services                                           3.99         0.93          4.92
(3.99)                    (3.99)
6. Recurrent Expenditures
- Incremental Recurrent Costs                                    1.23                       1.23
(I. I 1)                  (I. I 1)
- Project Operating Costs                                        0.80         0.43          1.23
(0.80)                    (0.80)
TOTAL                           5.36              1.36            8.59         1.46         16.96
(5.24)          (1.17)          (8.47)                     (14.88)
Note:   1. The figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
2. "Other" is Limited Intemational Bidding, international and local shopping, and consultants services
3. Not financed by IDA
D. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
4.6     Table 4.1 summarizes the project cost by disbursement category and proposed
procurement method. A detailed procurement plan and timetable are given in Annex 10.
Procurement and decision-making will follow the World Bank's official guidelines on
procurement of works and goods (Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995, Revised January andAugust 1996), and services (Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997) in all respects. Senegal's procurement
laws and regulations conform to IDA procurement guidelines. No special exemptions, permits,
or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents for international competitive bidding (ICB),
as Senegal's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any
contrary provisions in local regulations.
4.7     Civil Works. The civil works program financed by IDA (US$1.5 million) concerns the
rehabilitation of an existing state-owned building to accommodate offices for DHSP, the DAGE
and MSPAS cabinet at the central level, and the rehabilitation of regional offices as well as the
construction of one staff house for each of the 9 SGE regional medical officers. Civil works will
be grouped into packages of at least US$500,000 each and procured through ICB in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995
revised 1996). Standard bidding documents developed by the Bank will be used. Civil works
contracts financed under the credit for contracts not exceeding US$500,000 will be awarded
through NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$1.2 million. Due to spread and high
transportation costs, these civil works contracts are unlikely to attract foreign or large firns that
use modem equipment. Foreign bidders, however, would not be precluded from submitting bids.
Civil works contract management will be delegated to AGETIP, an autonomous local



23
construction management entity closely supervised by Bank staff and auditors under another
IDA-financed project, whose efficiency has been proven in this area since 1992.
4.8    Goods. Goods financed under the credit (US$4.1 million) include: (a) drugs, laboratory
supplies and consumable chemicals; and (b) office equipment and supplies, office furniture for
the DHSP and DAGE, and vehicles for the SNGE central unit and project coordination.
Procurement of drugs, laboratory supplies and consumable chemicals will be procured through
Limited International Bidding (LIB) up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million because
contracts values will be small and quality requirements with regard to the products and their
delivery are important factors. Other goods will be grouped into packages of at least
US$100,000 each and procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised 1996). Standard
bidding documents developed by the Bank will be used. A preferential margin of 15 percent or
the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f. prices of competing goods for all
ICB procurement will be given to domestic firms in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Contracts for goods not exceeding US$100,000 will be awarded through NCB procedures up to
an aggregate amount of US$200,000. Small quantities of goods such as office supplies and
equipment, vehicles, consumable materials and spare parts, which are available off-the-shelf and
cannot be grouped into bidding packages of at least US$50,000 may be procured through prudent
international shopping for an aggregate amount of US$90,000 and national shopping for an
aggregate amount of US$ 100,000, based on price quotations of at least three reliable suppliers.
All bids will be submitted on a c.i.f. basis for imported goods and on ex-factory basis for locally
manufactured goods.
4.9    Consultant Services. The project does not provide for long-term resident technical
assistance. International and local consultants providing specialist services financed by IDA
(US$4.0 million) would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor the Selection
and Employment of Consultants (January 1997). Selection of consultants will be addressed
through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based both
on the quality of the proposal and on the cost of the services to be provided except for audits of a
standard- nature which will use the least-cost selection. Short-lists for contracts estimated under
US$200,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient number of
qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms have
expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration. The standard Letter of
Invitation and Form of Contract as developed by the Bank will be used for appointment of
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not
exceeding six months, carried out by individual consultants. The Government will be briefed
during negotiations about the special features of the new guidelines, in particular with regards to
advertisement, requirements for short lists and specific notice in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB) publication for contract above US$200,000, and public bid
opening. Services to be contracted include technical consultants, training, contract management
services for building rehabilitation, and auditing and assistance in the area of accounting and
procurement. Contract management for the development of the Health Management Information
System (SIG) will be contracted on a single-source selection basis to Mazars & Guerard for
continuity purpose since the firm has designed the system to the satisfaction of Government and
the donors during project preparation. Construction management will be delegated to AGETIP
using the standard contract developed by the Africa Region for AGETIP-type agencies acting as
a contract management agency. AGETIP will recruit the necessary consultants' services for
design and supervision in accordance with procedures described in its manual of procedures
which are consistent with Bank's procurement Guidelines.



24
4.10   Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts above the threshold value of US$500,00 and of
US$100,000 equivalent for works and goods respectively will be subject to IDA's prior review
procedures. The review process would cover 80 percent of the total value of the amount
contracted for goods and 56 percent of the amount contracted for civil works. Selective post-
review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three contracts.
Draft standard bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed by and agreed upon with IDA. The
Bank will review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the Borrower.
The Borrower will be reminded that opening of the financial envelopes will not take place before
receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation. Prior IDA review will not apply to
contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 and US$50,000 equivalent respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA
review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of value, to single-
source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value above the prior review threshold.
4.11   Procurement Status and Proposed Arrangements. During negotiations, the
Government submitted to IDA, discussed and finalized the following documents: (a)
procurement plan; (b) Operational Manual for Project Management and Implementation; and
(c) bidding documents for the civil works and major equipment, as well as letters of invitation
for consultants services, financed by IDA (para. 6.1 (d)). During negotiations, the Government
gave assurance that it would apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in
the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, NCB, and in the operational manual (para. 6.2
(b)).
4.12   Disbursements. The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period, with
the IDA Credit disbursed over six years, according to the categories shown in Table 4.2 below.
The estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 11. Disbursement of the Credit will be
fully documented, except for expenditures for works and goods under contracts costing less than
US$500,000 and US$100,000 respectively, and services under contracts with consulting firms
not exceeding US$100,000, and with individual consultants not exceeding US$50,000, which
would be made against Statements of Expenditure. Documentation for withdrawals under
Statement of Expenses would be retained for review by IDA supervision missions and for audits.
Table 4.2: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Amount of Credit Allocated   % of Expenditures to be
Category              (US$ million)          Financed
1. Civil Works                     2.3                  90
2. Goods
- Equipment, drugs, vehicles    3.4              100 of foreign &
- Fumiture                      0.2           90 of local expenditure
3. Training                         2.2                 100
4. Consultant Services
- for part with IEC             1.2                  100
- for other parts               2.4                  100
5. Operating Costs
- forproject management parts   0.6                  90
- for other parts               1.0                  90
6. Unallocated                      1.6
TOTAL CREDIT AMOUNT                14.9



25
E. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.13   Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, the Government will open a Special
Account (SA) in a commercial bank in Dakar to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures,
managed by the DSPH. The authorized allocation for the SA would be US$1 million equivalent.
IDA will make an initial deposit of US$600,000 equivalent into the SA upon Credit effectiveness
and will replenish the SA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures.
Replenishment will be accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliation of the SA.
To expedite the implementation of day-to-day activities and effect small payments for local
training programs involving frequent expenditures in local currency at the district level, Medical
Regions will be provided from the special account with petty cash equivalent to two months of
expenditures to be incurred in carrying out the activities planned and agreed upon between the
Medical Region and the DSPH. Justifications of the use of cash, together with the request for
replenishment if necessary, will be prepared monthly by the Medical Region Administration
accountant. All documentation regarding the use of the funds by the Medical Region
Administration accountant will be kept at the level of the Medical Region for supervision
missions and audits. Medical Regions will open accounts operated by the accountant of the
Medical Region Administration under the supervision of the Regional Medical Officer. The
Medical Region Administration accountant is a staff member qualified in accounting and
administrative procedures and is subject to regular government monitoring and scrutiny. Each
district medical officer will be responsible for establishing an annual budget for the activities to
be carried out, and the Medical Region Administration accountant would regularly provide the
necessary funds on the basis of justification established with the assistance of the district
administrative accountant. Justifications of expenditure eligibility will be handed over to the
project accountant and kept as supporting documents for the use of the Statement of
Expenditures procedure.
4.14   A detailed proposal on the accounting system and procedures to be followed, as well as a
profile of personnel needed and equipment required, would be prepared by consultants. During
negotiations the Government furnished the terms of reference for the consultants to be recruited
to establish the accounting andfinancial management system of the project, the terms of
reference, the short list offirms and the selection procedures for audit contracts, to be reviewed
by IDA and agreed upon (para. 6.1 (e)). As a condition for Credit effectiveness, the Government
will establish afinancial management and accounting system for the project, acceptable to IDA
(para. 6.3 (b)). The DHSP Deputy-Director would at all times keep project financial records in
accordance with sound internal accounting practices to reflect project operations and financial
position. These records would be made available to visiting Bank missions and independent
auditors. The project accounts, including the SA, will be audited annually, in accordance with
International Standard of Auditing, by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audited accounts and the auditor's report, including the Management Letter (Long Form) and a
statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended purpose, and a
separate opinion with respect to statement of expenditures and the Special Account would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year for the Project. Assurances to
this effect were reached at negotiations (para. 6.2 (c)). As a condition for Credit effectiveness,
the Government will sign a multi-year contract awardfor auditing the Project accounts,
acceptable to the Association (para. 6.3 (e)).



26
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1    Project Benefits. By reducing the burden of malaria, schistosomiasis and
onchocerciasis, the project will directly benefit the rural populations where these diseases are
most prevalent. As a result of the reinforcement of national capacities to control endemic and
epidemic diseases, the project will also significantly benefit people in poor urban areas who have
been severely hit by recent epidemics of cholera, and who are still at high risk from other
epidemics such as cerebral meningitis.
5.2    The social and economic development of the entire Senegalese population will strongly
benefit from the success of the project as endemic disease control activities are pure public
goods with important externalities. All activities have been proven to have a high cost-
effectiveness (less than US$50 per DALYs) and an important economic retum. Based on the
sub-regional average cost of a case of malaria, the burden of malaria in Senegal represents one
percent of GDP, i.e. around US$6 million in 1995. The project's global objective to reduce
malaria morbidity by 20 percent would save an equivalent of 0.2 percent of GDP.
5.3   Finally, the implementation of a computerized network supporting the national health
information system would: (a) help decision-makers to better program and rationalize the use of
resources allocated to the health sector, in particular through the achievement of the SIP's
objectives, currently under preparation; (b) develop the connectivity not only between health
staff with the electronic mail, but also with intemational partners with a possible link to the
intemet network; and (c) create within the MSPAS a new work culture towards partnership and
cross-fertilization with external actors.
5.4    Project Risks. The first risk relates to the integration of a reinforced SNGE within the
general health services, and its acceptance by the staff in general. This risk would be reduced
by: (a) a clear definition of the breakdown of responsibilities between the SNGE and the general
health services in the control of each of the endemic and epidemic diseases; (b) the SNGE's
demonstration of high professionalism and expertise in the area of infectious diseases; and (c)
the development of a strong team spirit.
5.5    The second risk relates to the non-sustainability of crucial activities at peripheral levels,
such as continuous in-service training, regular supervision of the staff, and education of the
population on public health issues. In recognition of this risk, the proposed SIP, would support
the development of Regional and District Health Plans which will include these activities and
ensure their budgetary allocations. Regional and district health teams would be accountable for
the implementation of these activities.
5.6    The last risk would be the failure of the donor community to fully coordinate its efforts
to support the surveillance and control of endemic and epidemic diseases. The Bank would
assist the Govemment in minimizing this potential risk during project implementation through
coordination mechanisms, to be established under both this project and the SIP.



27
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations, the Government furnished the following documents:
(a)   the Letter of Sub-Sector Policy, including the project monitoring indicators
(para. 3.1);
(b)   the document showing that the building to be rehabilitated is state-owned and
has officially been earmarked for the MSPAS (para. 3.36);
(c)   the appointment of the Deputy-Director of the DHSP as the project director, and
the appointment of the project manager and DHSP accountant, whose
qualifications and terms of reference are satisfactory for IDA (para. 4.3);
(d)   the procurement plan, the Operational Manual for Project Management and
Implementation, and the bidding document for the civil works and major
equipment, as well as the letters of invitation for consultants services, financed
by IDA (para. 4.1 1); and
(e)   the terms of reference for the consultants to be recruited to establish the
accounting and financial management system of the project; and (ii) the terms of
reference, the short list of firms and the selection procedures for audit contracts
(para. 4.14).
6.2    During negotiations, the Government gave assurance that it would:
(a)   submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months of the
Credit closing (para. 4.5);
(b)   apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined in the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, NCB, and in the operational manual
(para. 4.11); and
(c)   submit to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year, audited accounts
and the auditor's report, including the Management Letter (Long Form) and a
statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their intended
purpose, and a separate opinion with respect to statement of expenditures and the
Special Account (para 4.14).
6.3    As conditions for Credit effectiveness, the Government will:
(a)   adopt the new organizational and administrative structure of the Endemic
Disease sub-Directorate acceptable to IDA (para. 3.33);
(b)   establish a financial management and accounting system for the project,
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.14); and
(c)   sign a multi-year contract award for auditing the Project accounts, acceptable to
the Association (para. 4.14).



28
6.4    Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR10.8 million (US$14.9 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Senegal on standard IDA termns.



29
Annex I
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
PROJECT LOGICAL FRAMEWORK AND INDICATORS
Narrative Summary (NS) |MIeasurable Indicators                          Means of Verification      I ImportantAssumptions
Goal:
Alleviate the burden of    Decrease of the burden of endemic and      I Burden of Disease Analysis   I No baseline data today.
endemic and epidemic     epidemic diseases, in particular through the   in 1999 and 2002              Effectiveness of the
diseases                 reduction of the infant mortality attributable to                            SIG in the
malaria (by 10% by PY3, by 15% by PY4, and   2 SIG                          establishment of
by 25% by PY5), the reduction of school-age                                 baseline data in 1999.
children morbidity attributable to urinary  3 Schistosomiasis prevalence
schistosomiasis (by 20% by PY2, by 40% by     studies every two years
PY3, by 70% by PY4 and by 90% by PY5),
and no new case of riverblindness in the    4 Onchocerciasis
Program area.                                 entomological studies
Purpose:
To reinforce national   1 20% of suspected cases of malaria, schisto. or   I Health district supervision    I That there regular
capacities to control     oncho. received good quality care by PY2,       reports, KAP surveys and    supervisions by
endemic and epidemic       40% by PY3, 50% by PY4 and 60% by PY5          UNICEF reports              medical and regional
diseases                                                                                              district teams
2 10% of households with mosquito nets for   2 KAP surveys                 2 That operational
children under 5 by PY3, 30% by PY4, 40%                                   research on bednets be
by PYS                                                                     conducted and a
solution be found on
the impregnated bednet
affordability issue
3 % of highly schisto. infected villages with no    3 BRH Unit reports and  3 That there is a good
transmission                                 malacological studies         coordination between
the SNGE and BRH
4 by PY3 30% of health facilities with on-time    4 DSTAT reports          4 That the training has
complete SIG monthly mortality and                                         been effective
morbidity reports and feedback, 50% by PY4
and 60% by PY5
5 Number of communications exchanged over    5 DSTAT reports
the electronic message system included in the
network
6 Effectiveness of the SNGE in its efforts to  6 Capacity Building         6 Willingness of staff to
develop team work and resource               Assessment in PY3 and         develop teamwork
rationalization in implementing its activities  PYS
at central and regional levels



30
Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Outputs:
I Demonstration of        1.1 The proportion of health facilities with at  1.1 Health District      1.1 Regular supervisions
feasibility of integrating  least one practicing clinical health worker  Supervision Reports,        by medical and
surveillance and control   trained in integrated management of           KAP surveys and             regional district teams
activities of endemic       malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis  UNICEF reports
diseases such as            and who: a) can correctly state standards for
malaria, schistosomiasis    diagnosis, treatment and referral,
& onchocerciasis within     particularly with suspected cases of malaria
the peripheral health       and schistosomiasis
services and community
activities              1.2 The proportion of caretakers having      1.2 KAP surveys
received IEC messages who can correctly
recognize signs and symptoms of fever and
state that fever in child requires prompt
treatment, state an appropriate treatment
protocol for uncomplicated malaria, and
know where to seek appropriate additional
care when the condition does not improve
or worsens
1.3 The proportion of pregnant women who     1.3 BRH Unit Reports and
know that they can and should prevent and    malacological studies
treat malaria and anemia during pregnancy
1.4 Effective outbreak prevention system
1.5 Operational research and prevalence studies                          1.5 That operational
on: a) bednets, b) organization of                                       research on bednets be
impregnation and possible system for cost                                conducted and a
recovery, c) identification of villages and                              solution be found on
hamlets with high transmission of urinary                                the impregnated
schistosomiasis, and d) proportion of                                    bednet affordability
endemic villages with identified and trained                             issue
CHWs responsible for ivermectin                                      1.5 That there is a good
distribution.                                                            coordination between
the SNGE and BRH
2 Integrated, flexible and    2.1 Implementation of the computerized   2.1 Monitoring and
highly communicative        network and development of the revised      supervision reports and
SIG                         SIG                                         certification of services
rendered to full
completion of specialist
services contracts by the
maitre d'ouvrage delegue
2.2 Proponion of health workers, supervisors  2.2 DSTAT reports          2.2 Continuous training
and planners who have received training in                               and supervision of
the use of the revised SIG and information                               health staff to improve
for decision making                                                      the diagnosis and
reporting systems
2.3 Setting up and number of effective meetings   2.3 Cabinet conclusion
of the Health Information Council
3 Institutional           3.1 SNGE Functional Organizational chart     3.1 Cabinet conclusion       3.1 Thatthe
Strengthening of the        developed and approved by Cabinet by                                     reorganization of the
SNGE                        September 1997                                                           MSPAS has been
completed and
approved
3.2 Personnel functioning according to       3.2 Capacity building
approved organizational chart by March 98   assessment studies in
PY3 and PY5
3.3 Facilities renovated according to        3.3 AGETIP reports          3.3 Renovation and
specifications by PY 2                                                   equipment will be
provided on time



31
Annex I
Page 3 of 3
3.4 National Control Programs revised or    3.4 Document published and   3.4 That the SNGE with
developed for all endemic diseases.        distributed                  the support of
Guidelines or "Conduits a Tenir" before                                technical assistance
diseases with high risk of epidemics                                    will be able to
organize a work
program
3.5 Training and supervision programs in    3.5 SNGE activity reports   3.5 Real commitment for
surveillance and control activities designed,                          integration and
piloted, reviewed and implemented by PY2                                rationalization of
training programs



32
Annex 2
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
SUB-SECTOR POLICY LETTER
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President, World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. President
i .    I have the honor, in connection with the negotiations now under way with your
institution concerning the Endemic Diseases Control Project, to be carried out within the
framework of the Nouvelles Orientations de la Politique de Sante et d'Action Sociale, to send
you the following letter on behalf of the Head of State and Government of Senegal.
2     While the health of a country's population at any given time is largely determined by that
country's current level of development, health is also a decisive factor in determining future
growth, particularly when, as in Senegal's case, that growth rests upon the development of
human resources. This same health-development nexus underlies all the international
recommendations to which Senegal has subscribed since adopting the Primary Health Care
Strategy at Alma-Ata in 1978. Even before the Alma-Ata conference, indeed from the early days
of independence, Senegal has been implementing a basic health care policy, which was
strengthened in 1972 by a reform based on decentralization and community participation, with
the additional element of regionalization.
3.    Regrettably, after two decades (1960-1980) of growth, and of considerable improvement
in the national health indicators, Senegal found itself faced in the nineteen-eighties with an
economic crisis and a severe tightening on the volume of resources allocated to the social
sectors. This lack of resources led to a qualitative and quantitative decline in the services
provided in those sectors, and a deterioration in the living conditions of the vulnerable
population cohorts, specifically, the rural communities, low-income urban households, and
women. Moreover, Senegal's heavy population growth was resulting in increasingly heavy
pressure on the demand for health services; a demand the country's health system was simply
unable to meet.
4.    It was within this context, which, while fraught with difficulties, proved conducive to
debate and to change, that the Head of State, following the country's tradition of viewing the
development of human resources as the key to growth, approved the Population Policy Statement
in April 1988, as well as the Health Policy Statement in June 1989. The basic objective was to
improve the standards of living and well-being of the population by achieving a better



33
Annex 2
Page 2 of 10
quantitative and qualitative balance between supply and demand in the areas of health,
education, and employment.
5.    In August 1991, the Health and Social Action Sector Policy Letter was adopted, serving
as a framework for the Human Resources Development Project (PDRH 1) supported financially
by IDA. The objectives of the National Health Policy were to: (a) improve health coverage,
particularly in rural and peripheral urban areas; (b) improve maternal and child health; (c)
develop preventive and educational activities; (d) rationalize curative care; (e) rationalize and
develop the utilization of human, material, and financial resources; and (f) keep check on
democratic variables.
6.    In 1995, based on the results obtained, medium- and long-term guidelines, as well as
priority spheres of action for the Ministry of Public Health and Social Action (MSPAS) and for
the development partners were defined. These consisted of: (a) rationalization of human
resource utilization through the development of personnel hiring, training, and redeployment
policies; (b) improvements in health and social action services, focusing in particular on
infectious disease control, establishment of an information system, and actions to inform and
educate the communities; (c) development of a national pharmaceutical policy; and (d)
redefinition of the role to be played, particularly on the financial scene, by the various actors in
the health field, namely the Government, the communities, the local authorities, and the
development partners.
7.     The present statement clarifies those guidelines as they relate to the control of endemic
and potentially epidemic diseases. They are set out under three main headings: (a) the evolution
of the health situation; (b) the key issues in the control of endemic and epidemic diseases; and
(c) the Government's medium- and long-term objectives.
1.     THE EVOLUTION OF THE HEALTH SITUATION
1.1    Evolution of Health service Supply
1.1.1  Historical Overview
8.    A legacy of the colonial era, the control of endemic and potentially epidemic diseases
has continued to be the territory of the National Endemic Disease Service [Service National des
Grandes Endcmies - SNGE] and of its regional units, the Secteurs des Grandes Endcmies
(SGEs). Despite some attempts to achieve administrative decentralization and integration in
peripheral health services, the SNGE remains profoundly independent and centralized. The
economic crisis of the last fifteen years has revealed the disastrous consequences of the SNGE's
failure to evolve: it has practically no resources left of its own and is dependent upon external
support.
1.1.2 Organization and Operation of the Present System
9.     The National Endemic Disease Service is one of three national services operated by the
Directorate of Hygiene and Public Health [Direction de l'Hygiene et de la Sante Publique -
DHSP]. It comprises a central unit, the Service Central des Grandes Endemies, and the nine
regional Secteurs (SGEs). At the regional level, the SGEs come under the administrative



34
Annex 2
Page 3 of 10
authority of the Medical Regions. The DHSP also includes seven Divisions, including the
Statistical Division, which is responsible for the health information system -- Systeme
d'Information a des fins de Gestion (SIG).
10.    SNGE's operating budget is extremely tight and does not cover its recurrent
expenditures. Its activities are virtually restricted to those financed by the donors within the
framework of the National Disease Control Programs, targeting specific diseases such as
malaria, leprosy, tuberculosis, dracunculosis, onchocerciasis, and diseases covered by the
Expanded Program of Immunization [Programme Elargi de Vaccination - PEV]. Each program
is managed independently, with its own logistical and material resources.
II.   SNGE's central unit has few employees. In addition to the unit's director [Directeur du
Service], there are five physicians and three senior health technicians, with each responsible for
one of the national programs. Although they all belong to the same service, each member of the
team works completely independently of the others. Compounding this isolation is the fact that,
for lack of space at the DHSP, the programs are all housed in different locations scattered
throughout the city of Dakar.
12.   At the regional level, only four of the ten existing SGEs are headed by a physician
(Kaolack, Thies, St. Louis and Ziguinchor). The staff of the SGEs chiefly comprises health
"agents," or technicians, who are attached to one of the national programs. The number of
agents attached to a program depends on the extent of that program's funding. In practice,
staffers are attached either to leprosy control programs, onchocerciasis control programs, or the
PEV. The total number of agents in the SGEs varies from two in the Diourbel region to twenty-
one in the Tambacounda region, where the onchocerciasis program alone has a staff of ten.
13.   Although administratively dependent on the Medical Regions, the offices of the SGEs,
except for those of Fatick and Diourbel, are not located at the headquarters of the Medical
Regions but scattered among different cities, making it all the more difficult for their staffs to
communicate or exchange information.
1.2    Evolution of Demand
14.   Three key elements have influenced the general state of health of the Senegalese
population: (i) an overburdened and highly varied epidemiological picture; (ii) the high fertility
levels, which represent a serious threat to maternal and child health; and (iii) the persistently
dubious conditions of public hygiene and pervasive malnutrition.
1.2.1 An Over-burdened Epidemiological Picture
15.   An analysis of the epidemiological situation demonstrates the persistence, or even the
recrudescence, of the major tropical endemic diseases, sexually transmissible diseases,
tuberculosis, and childhood diseases. This picture is compounded by recent threats of epidemics
of diseases such as cholera or cerebro-spinal meningitis, and the appearance of new endemic
diseases such as AIDS.
16.   Overall, mortality rates have declined substantially over the past 30 years, falling from
26 per million to 18 per million in 1995. Nevertheless, child and maternal mortality rates are
still too high, respectively 68 per million and 5 10 per 100,000 live births.



35
Annex 2
Page 4 of 10
17.   In Senegal, the chief causes of death in children of 0-5 years are diarrheal diseases,
respiratory diseases, and malaria. These three pathologies are also the chief causes of morbidity,
malaria being the principal motivation for a medical consultation.
1.2.2 High Fertility Levels
18.    The overall fertility level is high, with a gross birth rate of 47 per million, and a synthetic
measure of fertility of 6.0 per woman. This high fertility level, remaining more or less stable
over the period 1978-1995, has resulted a very young population: over 45% of the country's
population is under 15 years of age.
1.2.3 Inadequate Hygiene and Malnutrition
19.    Rapid urban development, as well as inadequately monitored flight from the land, has
led to the establishment of housing settlements where there is little respect for the basic rules of
public and domestic hygiene. The shantytowns and squatter settlements that have sprung up
both on the urban peripheries and in the inner cities are all foci of epidemic diseases. The lower
income level of their occupants is yet another factor contributing to the often appalling health
conditions found in these areas, resulting in veritable breeding grounds for all types of socio-
health scourges, such as childhood diseases, malaria, schistosomiasis, cholera, sexually
transmissible diseases, malnutrition, etc.
II.    THE KEY ISSUES IN THE CONTROL OF ENDEMIC AND EPIDEMIC DISEASES
20.    The epidemiological situation continues to be dominated by infectious diseases and
represents a major challenge for any health policy. Despite this, national capacities for
combating these diseases have gradually diminished over the past twenty years as SNGE's
organization and operation have deteriorated.
2.1    Organizational Dysfunctions
21.    The serious dysfunctions affecting the system's organization cannot fail to have an
adverse impact on its results and performance.
2.1.1  Dysfunctions on theActivities Side
22.    For lack of the necessary resources, a large number of endemic and epidemic diseases
are subject to virtually no surveillance or control. SNGE's activities in the area of endemic
disease control are restricted to diseases targeted by the national programs and financed by a
development partner.
23.    The epidemiological surveillance system is extremely rudimentary and consists mainly
of passive surveillance based on the activities reports submitted by the health services. There is
no epidemic alert system, and, with a few exceptions, no active epidemiological surveillance.
24.    There is no systematic feedback for the health workers.



36
Annex 2
Page 5 of 10
25.   In the area of control, specific activities have been defined for a few diseases such as
tuberculosis, malaria, dracunculosis, and leprosy. However, these activities are rarely linked to a
monitoring indicator. There are no specific control programs for any of the potentially epidemic
diseases.
26.   In the case of the SGEs, regular activities, apart from those connected with the PEV,
commonly take the form of general medical consultations. With the substantial decline in the
leprosy prevalence rate, the activities of the national leprosy control program have been scaled
down. The few activities relating to the surveillance and control of other endemic and
potentially epidemic diseases still occur only very sporadically, and without any form of
planning.
2.1.2 Staffing Dysfunctions
27.   Administratively speaking, SNGE's employees all belong to the same government
department. In practice, however, they belong first and foremost to the national disease control
programs. Their training and retraining, and sometimes their career path itself, are covered
exclusively by the national program to which they belong. Their benefits and pay are linked to
those programs.
28.    The fact that there are practically no inter-program staff transfers adds to the lack of
rationalization in staff utilization. For example, although the activities of the leprosy control
program have been scaled down in view of the program's success, members of the program's
team have not received other assignments and are substantially under-employed. At the same
time, the tuberculosis control program has no staff specifically assigned to it in the SGEs, and
can thus perform only a limited range of activities.
29.    The disparities in health service delivery are heightened by the uneven distribution of
personnel among the SGEs, Diourbel, for instance, having two workers and Tambacounda
twenty-two.
2.1.3 Dysfunctions in Terms of Workspace
30.    The DHSP is located in a tumble-down building that cannot house all of its Services and
Divisions. What little equipment it has is often out of service. The SGEs operate in extremely
old, if not virtually uninhabitable, premises and suffer from a lack of equipment and logistic
facilities. In most cases, their premises are a long way away from the Medical Regions,
compounding the lack of rationalization in the use of equipment, communications equipment in
particular, and of logistic facilities.
2.2    Operational Disorders
31.    The decision to subdivide SNGE's organization and operations into different programs has
considerably weakened the potential for strengthening institutional capacities in the field of control
of endemic and potentially epidemic diseases. This negative impact has been particularly
detrimental to the control of "old" endemic diseases such as malaria. For example, the expertise
and practical skills acquired by SNGE in the areas of entomology and epidemiology during the
malaria eradication campaigns of the sixties have virtually disappeared.



37
Annex 2
Page 6 of 10
m      THE OBJECTIVES IN THE SUB-SECTOR
32.    To address all the constraints and issues identified in the area of endemic and epidemic
diseases, the Govemment intends to focus on national capacity building in the area of infectious
disease control, with the aim of seeking a better quantitative and qualitative balance between
service delivery and the essential needs of the communities. Its strategy will be based on a
cohesive set of actions geared to redefinition of SNGE's mission, reorganization and
decentralization of MSPAS, and efforts to improve demand and supply.
3.1    SNGE's Mission
33.    SNGE's mission is to organize and coordinate the surveillance, prevention, as well as the
control of endemic and potentially epidemic diseases and of infectious diseases detrimental to
public health.
34.    This mission falls within the framework of the decentralization of health services and the
redefinition of the role of MSPAS' central services, and is restricted to the design of policies and
strategies, and the contracting-out of the actual implementation of those same strategies.
3.2    SNGE's Organizational Chart
35.    To enable SNGE to accomplish its objectives, a reform will be initiated within the
general framework of the MSPAS reorganization. The pertinent legislation should receive final
approval during 1997.
36.    The philosophy of SNGE's reorganization falls within the framework of decentralization
of the health services and is geared to greater rationalization in the utilization of human,
logistical, physical, and financial resources, as well as to the provision of better quality and more
evenly distributed services.
37.    At the central level, SNGE will be expected to concentrate on the design of surveillance
and control strategies to combat endemic and potentially epidemic diseases, definition of
objectives and monitoring indicators, and supervision of the SGEs' performance in implementing
the Regional Health Plans. The central unit will also enter into all necessary contracts for
disease control activities, either with the regions, within the framework of the Regional Health
Plans, or with other govemment, parastatal, or private agencies, both for profit and non-profit.
38.    The work of the central unit will be carried out by a multi-disciplinary team headed by a
Chef de Service. Task allocation within the unit will be based on team spirit and flexibility.
39.    At the regional level, the SGEs will conform to the guiding principles and policies laid
down at the central level. Within this framework, the SGEs will be responsible for adapting the
endemic and epidemic disease control strategies to local constraints, and for implementing those
strategies, which they will incorporate into activity plans specifying objectives, activities, costs,
and sources of financing.
40.    The SGEs will submit annual performance reports, and while it is on these reports that
their evaluation will primarily depend, account will also be taken of the degree of satisfaction
expressed by the regional medical teams and district teams they support.



38
Annex 2
Page 7 of 10
41.   As at the central level, the dominant characteristics required of SGE personnel will be
flexibility and demonstration of team spirit.
3.3    Actions in the Areas of Demand and Supply
42.   In the area of demand, the focus will be on actions to inform and educate the different
population cohorts, in particular mothers, pregnant women, and school children. Steps will also
be taken to obtain a better knowledge of their demand for services, so that this information may
rapidly be used to guide, if not actually drive, supply.
43.    On the health service supply side, actions in the area of surveillance and control of
endemic and epidemic diseases will focus on making better use of existing resources by
improving the distribution of personnel and the allocation of available resources, and by
enhancing the services' cost-efficiency ratios (internal efficiency). New linkages will be forged
with non-governmental entities so as to increase the participation of civil society, and establish a
cohesive nationwide health system based on both the public and private supply of health
services.
44.   The specific goals the Government aims to achieve over the medium term in order to
accomplish this general objective are:
(a)    a reduction of morbidity and mortality rates linked to malaria, schistosomiasis,
and onchocerciasis;
(b)    a greater efficiency of health system performance in the control of endemic and
epidemic diseases;
(c)    improvements in health care utilization; and
(d)    an improved quality of health services.
45.    The strategies for achieving this overall package of objectives are:
(a)    an improvement and rationalization of activities to control malaria,
schistosomiasis, and onchocerciasis, thereby paving the way for those activities
to be extended to other endemic and epidemic diseases;
(b)    a development of the review and computerization of the SIG to make this into a
flexible and efficient system of communication which can provide rapid
feedback to the health workers; and
(c)    a capacity building at SNGE and the SGEs.
IV.   CONCLUSION
46.    I take this opportunity to reiterate the Government of Senegal's commitment to the
program described in the present health policy letter. It is the Government's firm conviction that
this program will help to bring about a substantial improvement in the development of Senegal's
health and social sectors.



39
Annex 2
Page 8 of 10
47.   Based on the reforms already undertaken, and in light of the above mentioned program,
the Government urges you to give favorable consideration to the grant of a credit to develop our
national capacities in the field of endemic and potentially epidemic disease control.
Dakar, April 1, 1997
His Excellency Ousman NGOM
Minister of Public Health and Social Action
Annex: Monitoring Indicators



40
Annex 2
Page 9 of 10
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
1.    Project Purpose. Regarding the overall project objective to support endemic and
epidemic diseases control, the following monitoring indicators are accepted:
(a)    Reduction of infant mortality attributable to malaria by 10 percent by the Project
Year 3 (PY3), by 15 percent by PY4, and by 25 percent by the end of the project.
(b)    Reduction  of  school-age  children  morbidity  attributable  to  urinary
schistosomiasis, by 20 percent by PY2, by 40 percent by PY3, by 70 percent by
PY4 and by 90 percent by the end of the project.
(c)    No new case of riverblindness in the Program area.
2.    These indicators will be measured on the basis of the Health management Information
System (SIG), the two Burden of Disease Analysis conducted in PY3 and PY5, and
schistosomiasis prevalence studies conducted every two years.
3.    Outcomes. Regarding the project outcomes, the following four indicators are accepted:
(a)    Number of suspected cases of malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis which
received good quality care at the health facility and household levels. The
benchmarks are: 20 percent by PY2, 50 percent by PY3, 50 percent by PY4, and
60 percent by the end of the project. This indicator will be measured on the
basis of supervision reports from districts and medical regions, of UNICEF
reports and KAP surveys.
(b)    Number of health facilities with on-time complete SIG monthly mortality and
morbidity reports and feedback. The benchmarks are: 30 percent by PY3, 50
percent by PY4 and by 60 percent by the end of the project. This indicator will
be measured on the basis of the DSTAT reports.
(c)    Number of communications exchanged over the electronic message system
included in the network. This indicator will be measured on the basis of the
DSTAT reports.
(d)    Effectiveness of the SNGE in its effort to develop team work and resource
rationalization in implementing its activities at central and regional levels. This
indicator will assessed on the basis of external evaluations undertaken at PY3,
and at the end of the project.
4.    Inputs. Regarding the project inputs, the following indicators are accepted:
(a)    Progress made in civil works implementation, according to time schedule. This
indicator will me assessed on the basis of AGETIP reports.



41
Annex 2
Page 10 of 10
(b)    Progress made in the implementation of the computerized Health Information
System, according to a time schedule. This indicator will be assessed on the
basis of the MSPAS reports.
(c)    Number of training sessions organized for health staff, and number of IEC
sessions for household caretakers in the context of malaria, schisotosomiasis and
onchocerciasis.
(d)    Number of health staff who have received training on malaria, schisotosomiasis
and onchocerciasis control.



42
Annex 3
Page 1 of 18
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
MALARIA
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Both the study and control of malaria has a long history in Senegal, at least since the mid-
19th century but, as in all other countries of tropical Africa, the disproportion between the meager
resources available and the magnitude of the problem, has not permitted important and durable
impact on the epidemiological situation. Malaria continues to be the main cause of morbidity and
mortality, representing between 40 and 50% of all consultations.
A. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
2.    The use of quinine for individual prophylaxis was introduced in Senegal by the mid-19th
century, and limited efforts of environmental sanitation and larviciding were undertaken in Saint
Louis and Dakar during the first half of the XX century. The introduction of DDT, after World
War II, led to the establishment of a national anti-malaria service (Service de Lutte
Antipaludique, SLAP) in 1952, with the collaboration of WHO and UNICEF, starting a Malaria
Control Pilot Project in the Thies region. The failure to interrupt malaria transmission with only
insecticide spraying, led te the introduction of mass chemoprophylaxis in 1957, on a pilot project
scale comparing chloroqu,ne and pyrimethamine.
3.    In 1961, the recognition by WHO that malaria eradication could not be sustained in the
absence of solid general health services resulted in the progressive transformation of malaria
control programs into so-called Pre-eradication Programs aimed at the development of basic
health services and, therefore, to the abandonment of specific malaria control activities
throughout tropical Africa.
4.    Malaria chemoprophylaxis for the protection of children under 5 years of age continued
to be promoted, but coverage was always irregular and never achieved the level required to
control malaria morbidity, although it undoubtedly contributed to the general availability of
chloroquine and, therefore, to the decline of malaria mortality. Since the mid-1980's, mass
chemoprophylaxis of children has been discouraged by WHO because of its selection pressure
for drug resistant parasites.
5.    Vector control activities, no longer demanded as a basic component of the malaria
control strategy, and in 1981 became the responsibility of a newly-created militarized Hygiene
Service, which attempted to undertake and coordinate larviciding and spraying activities, limited
in most cases to point actions based on empirical considerations, such as complaints of mosquito
nuisance or stagnant water. An evaluation of their activities, carried out in April 1996, indicated
severe insufficiencies in material and human resources, leading to a lack of technical guidance in
the field, and a failure to evaluate activities and results.



43
Annex 3
Page 2 of 18
B. RATIONALE FOR INTERVENTION
6.    The successive failure in Senegal, as in most tropical countries, of the different attempts
to achieve sustainable interruption of transmission, and the final elimination of the disease,
created a feeling of disappointment about malaria, and did not allow the focusing of attention on
the possibilities to alleviate the burden of the disease. Meanwhile, malaria continued claiming
lives throughout the tropics, its toll of death and incapacity remaining a major obstacle to
socioeconomic development, and demanding ever more costly treatment, as parasite resistance
continued to spread.
7.    Between 1990 and 1992, WHO, with the assistance of most international development
agencies, coordinated the development of regional malaria control strategies, culminating with
the adoption of a global strategy at the Ministerial Conference on Malaria Control in
Amsterdam in October 1992. This strategy gives the highest priority to the prevention of death
and the reduction of incapacity by making appropriate case management accessible where ever
necessary, through the development of primary health care and health information, through the
education of the population, and concentrating vector control wherever it can achieve sustainable
results. The strategy also gives a high priority to the development of an epidemiological
information system, to early detection and control, and, if possible, to the prevention of
epidemics.
8.    Conscious of the importance of the malaria problem, the Government of Senegal, in its
Declaration of National Health Policy of June 1989, had made malaria control one of the highest
priorities of its health policy. Senegal was an active participant in the Ministerial Conference
and co-signatory of the declaration of Amsterdam in October 1992. The political will to pursue
this goal, according to the global malaria control strategy, has been shown by the formulation of
a National Program for Malaria Control (1996-2000), issued in Dakar in August 1995.
II.    SITUATION ANALYSIS
A. VECTOR DISTRIBUTION AND ECOLOGY
9.    Within the last twenty years, twelve Anopheles species have been found in Senegal,
either biting man or resting in human dwellings; by far the most important vectors are the two
main members of the A. gambiae complex, A. gambiae s.s. and A. arabiensis; A. funestus is
mainly limited to the South; A. melas, a third member of the A. gambiae complex, is limited to
the coastal areas, and A. pharoensis may play a very limited role in transmission in the Senegal
delta.
B. EPIDEMIOLOGY
10.   Epidemiological Patterns. The great ecological diversity in Senegal is reflected in a
similar diversity in malaria epidemiology. A general stratification has been made into two main
epidemiological patterns (facies epidemiologiques):
(a)    sahelian malaria with a short transmission season, generally less than 4 months.
The main vector is A. arabiensis with A. gambiae and/or A. funestus, as occasional



44
Annex 3
Page 3 of 18
vectors in some places. It corresponds to the Saloumian, Ferlian, and Capvertian
geographical regions;
(b)   tropical malaria, with a long period of transmission, during the 4-6 months of the
rains and the beginning of the dry season. It corresponds to the region of Boundou
and the Basse Casamance, inland from the mangrove. The main vector is A.
gambiae s.s. with the addition, in some places, of A. arabiensis and/or A. funestus,
giving a high inoculation rate (>100 infectious bites/man/year).
11.   Malaria transmission shows important seasonal fluctuations and generally increases from
North to South and from West to East, both in intensity and in the duration of the transmission
season. The two main patterns are modified by ecological variations and human activities, the
two most important being the general drought, which has affected most of the country since the
1970's, and urbanization which continues to increase. Irrigation projects in Sahelian areas have,
so far, not resulted in important changes in the pattern of malaria transmission, perhaps due to
their relatively small scale. There is, nevertheless, some anecdotal evidence that the
revitalization of the Ferlo valley and the Guiers lake are extending the transmission season in
this northern area.
12.    Therefore, thus far, only two focal patterns are important enough to deserve attention:
(a)    urban malaria, corresponding to the main urban areas, particularly the Dakar area;
in general, the intensity of transmission decreases from the periphery towards the
center of town, although, within the perimeter of the city, there are water collections
and even agricultural areas which may represent important foci of transmission, and
(b)    mangrove malaria, corresponding to the mangrove swamps on the deltas of the
main rivers Senegal, Saloum, and Casamance.
13.   Malaria Parasites. P. falciparum is by far the predominant species, representing over
97% of the infections detected throughout the country, mainly found alone, although, in between
one to four percent of the cases it has been found associated with P. malariae and P. ovale.
Parasite rates, found in general population surveys, varied from 3% in 1991 in the Senegal river
valley (Dagana & Podor), to 28% (1979) in Diourbel region, 28-31% (1992 & 1995) in
Tambacounda region, and over 60% (1986) in the Ziguinchor region, confirming the North South
gradient in the intensity of transmission.
14.   Morbidity and Mortality. As mentioned above, all health statistics place malaria as the
main cause of morbidity and mortality in the country. The statistical compilation made in 1995
for the preparation of the National Program of Malaria Control gave a proportional morbidity for
the whole country for 1993 of 35.3%, followed by diarrheal diseases with 12.2%, and intestinal
parasitoses with 10.9%. In urban areas, surveys carried out in October-November 1992, showed
that malaria represented 13.7% of all fevers in Dakar and 12.4% in Pikine; infections in adults
were as frequent (55.6%) as in children (44.1 %) in these areas.
15.   Mortality has been traditionally under-evaluated, particularly in rural areas. Data
collected in 1993 from health centers and health posts, gave a national case fatality rate of 0.1%,
and a rate of only 5.7% for neuropaludisme, which indicates obvious under-reporting .



45
Annex 3
Page 4 of 18
16.   In the Dakar area, hospital statistics show great variability in the epidemiological
indicators, with proportional morbidity in the range 1-3% for general services and 11% in the
department of infectious diseases. Case fatality is rather indicative of case selection, being in the
range of 4-8% in general services, 10.8% in the department of infectious diseases, and 32.9% in
the intensive care service of the Principal Hospital of Dakar.
17.   In spite of the paucity of available information, as well as the lack of continuity of
existing data, regional hospital statistics reflect the endemicity of the different areas.
Proportional morbidity, which in Thies remains similar to the Dakar area, reaches 5-12% in
Louga and well over 30% in Fatick, Kaolack and Tambacounda. The 1996 survey also showed
in hospital statistics the general intensification of malaria transmission in 1994-1995.
18.    Parasite Susceptibility to Anti-malarial Drugs. The first cases of resistance reported
from Senegal were infections with P. falciparum resistant to pyrimethamine, discovered in Thies
in 1961. Chloroquine resistance was found in vitro in 1985 in Kaolack. The first cases of P.
falciparum resistant in vivo were reported in Dakar and its suburbs in 1988. Since 1988, a
system of surveillance has been established in selected areas, with the collaboration of the
Faculty of Medicine and O.R.S.T.O.M.
III.   ISSUES
19.    As in other endemic countries, malaria control in Senegal suffers from the fact that the
realistic strategy now being adopted has much less spectacular objectives than the eradication
proposed in the past, and does not match the expectations of the general population. During the
past decade, efforts to change these perceptions have succeeded in convincing the authorities, but
have not penetrated to the educated general public who often view the new strategy as a
disappointing surrogate. There is therefore a need for intensifying the information and education
efforts on the perception of the malaria problem and the strategy of control. In the past, the
absence of a National Control Program and a coordinating mechanism for the different agencies
involved in malaria control also created some confusion about basic elements such as case
definitions and treatment, and laboratory practices.
20.    There are specific problems in each of the main areas of possible intervention: diagnosis
and treatment, chemoprophylaxis, selective vector control, epidemiological information system
and epidemic prevention or control.
A. DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT
21.   It has traditionally been considered a purely medical problem, outside the scope of
public health. Nevertheless, inadequate case management of a disease as prevalent as malaria is
a major health problem, and making proper diagnosis and treatment accessible to the whole
population, both physically and socio-culturally, is one of the most useful and sustainable public
health activities, particularly when backed-up by an epidemiological information system capable
of guiding necessary adjustments. The development of a health infrastructure was the main
factor which contributed to the elimination of malaria from southern Europe and the U.S.A. and
was recognized, as early as 1961, as a prerequisite for the effectiveness of control programs
based on transmission control. In Senegal, current treatment practices are rather anarchic and, to
a certain degree, contribute to the deterioration of the malaria problem.



46
Annex 3
Page 5 of 18
22.    Case Containment at the Community Level. Self-medication of fever is the normal
practice in rural areas, where it could be expected, as in other countries of West Africa, to be the
only therapeutic resource in around 80% of the cases. Even in Dakar, self-medication has been
recognized in 20% of the cases. Chloroquine is the drug most used and may be the only one
available in many rural markets. In Dakar, in 1992, quinine, amodiaquine and sulfadoxin/
pyrimethamine were also widely used in self-treatment, often several drugs at a time.
23.    Dosage, as in other countries, is generally inadequate, as knowledge about doses and
duration of treatment is almost always lacking, possible sources of information are unclear and
often contradictory, and tablets with different drug content are widely available without
guidance.
24.   Delayed and inadequate treatment are among the main causes of severity and death; a
study of hospitalized patients in the Infectious Diseases Department of Fann Hospital in Dakar in
1990, indicated that 51% of severe cases had received inadequate treatment before attending the
hospital; mortality in health posts serving areas with poor communications and scattered villages
seems to be much more frequent than in those serving more compact areas.
25.    There is an urgent need to improve early treatment, and particularly to enable mothers to
recognize signs of severity, requiring immediate referral to health services, while improving the
quality of care in the latter.
26.    Case Containment at the Health Facilities. At health facilities, the increasing deficit
of health personnel, the lack of motivation of health workers, the absence of supervision, and the
breaks in stock of antimalarials and other essential drugs, contribute to the poor quality of
peripheral care. These factors are compounded by: a) almost complete disregard of microscopy
as a diagnostic aid, even for severe and complicated cases, in hospitals with well equipped
laboratories and trained technicians; b) inadequate management of severe cases, which do not
benefit from a parasitological monitoring of treatment; c) excessive prestige of injections, which
is often encouraged by health staff, leading to an abuse of parenteral quinine; d) tendency to use
the latest drugs without consideration to relative effectiveness, side effects or cost; and e)
ignorance of appropriate dosages.
27.    Confusing Sources of Information. Many media messages to the general public and
the number of circulating guidelines for health professionals are contradictory in recommending
different drugs and dosages.
28.    Confusing Tablet Formulations. Adding to the confusion, there is in circulation within
the health services, tablets with 100 and 150 mg of chloroquine base, some even with 250 mg.
Similarly, chloroquine syrup may be dosed at 25 or 50 mg per coffee spoon. This may be very
confusing, particularly for lay treatment providers for whom doses will continue to be expressed
in numbers of tablets in lieu of mg/kg. These problems are further complicated by the existence
of an illicit parallel market where all sorts of drugs, including counterfeits, are available.
29.    No Active Participation in Monitoring Drug Resistance. Health services neither
record nor report treatment failures.
30.    Excessive Use of Anti-malarial Drugs. It is due not only to excessive prescriptions for
the treatment of malaria, but also because an anti-malarial treatment, particularly the use of



47
Annex 3
Page 6 of 18
chloroquine, is included in the recommended treatment of all fever episodes, even if a clear
cause of the fever can be identified. The excessive use of anti-malarials is not only wasteful but,
more importantly, contributes to the selection of drug resistance. An April 1996 inquiry into the
consumption of anti-malarials, gave figures, for chloroquine only, of 2 to 5 times higher than
necessary to treat the malaria cases reported.
B. CHEMOPROPHYLAXIS
31.    As mentioned above, it continues to be used, with the intention of protecting young
children, in many areas, despite contrary recommendations from the center. It should be
reserved for the protection of pregnant women, particularly primigravidae, as it is the best way of
preventing low birth weight, and they do not constitute such an important parasite reservoir as
young children.
C. SELECTIVE VECTOR CONTROL
32.    Endemic malaria represents a certain equilibrium between the human, vector and
parasite populations. High endemicity is equivalent to very stable epidemiological equilibrium,
both vector and parasite populations are many times higher than required for species survival.
Very important reductions in the parasite reservoir or in the vector population, by mass treatment
or by vector control, are rapidly compensated and the population returns to their original levels,
once the control activity is interrupted. Malaria parasites are well tolerated by people surviving
early childhood, most people becoming asymptomatic carriers thereafter. The higher the
endemicity, the lower the age of immunity development. This solid herd immunity is achieved
at a cost of high childhood mortality. In areas of low endemicity, such as the Dakar area, severe
malaria and mortality is relatively frequent in older children and young adults, as mentioned
above.
33.    By contrast, in areas of very low malaria endemicity, under normal conditions,
transmission does not occur, generally because vectors cannot survive the sufficient time for
parasite development, either because of low relative humidity or low temperatures.
Nevertheless, most of these areas are periodically subject to abnormal rains or floods, which not
only provide extensive vector breeding, but also relatively long periods of humidity/temperature
conditions favorable to malaria transmission with epidemic outbreaks. Observations in Congo,
Tanzania, Kenya and Senegal indicate that merely reducing transmission in endemic areas, may
reduce severe morbidity and mortality in young children but place them at higher risk at older
ages, without a net cohort benefit.
34.   These observations support the abandonment of vector control as the main element of
malaria control, in accordance with the global strategy adopted in Amsterdam in 1992. Vector
control has, nevertheless, a place in malaria control as a complement of a strategy based on the
development of health services, particularly if it concentrates on interventions which do not
require the repeated implementation of strictly organized activities and a high level of coverage
to be effective. This is the reason why large scale campaigns of indoor insecticide spraying are
hardly ever recommended. In contrast, the followings may be very useful:
(a)   the promotion and support of the use of bednets in areas where their use is
considered desirable, or the introduction of insecticide impregnation, in areas where



48
Annex 3
Page 7 of 18
bednets are in use; such actions could be sustainable complements of the general
improvement of case management. Individuals using bednets are protected, even if
coverage is very low, and coverage may progressively spread as bednets become
more widely accessible.
(b)    a point intervention, with re-impregnation of existing bednets, with indoor
insecticide spraying, or with well timed space spraying, when an information system
has detected the occurrence of an epidemic risk.
(c)   the organization of timed interventions, like the re-impregnation of bednets, to
decrease the peak of seasonal epidemics in areas subject to short intense
transmission periods.
D. EPIDEMIOLOGICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM AND EPIDEMIC
PREVENTION OR CONTROL
.3 S    It should be the backbone of any disease control activity, but it cannot be limited to a
isingie disease even as important as malaria. It should be incorporated in the functioning of the
gerneral health services and not viewed as an external imposition. Regional epidemiologists,
particularly in areas subject to periodic increases of epidemic risk, should be provided with the
e~apacity of analysis to monitor the epidemiological situation of malaria, and to investigate local
abnoormalities, organize local response and/or request assistance from the center. In order to
drovelop such capacity, it will be necessary: a) to determine the major determinants of epidemic
sk which should be monitored regularly, e.g. rainfall, floods or humidity/temperature, to
dtter7mine levels indicative of epidemic risk, and to identify the sources of information and
.&, ganize monitoring mechanisms; b) to organize the immediate reporting by telephone, fax or e-
nMaii of suspected epidemiological emergencies; and c) to prepare emergency plans to be
imnplemented in response to risk situations or detected emergencies.
-3 V. OPERATIONAL TOOLS FOR MALARIA CONTROL ACTIVITIES
A. ORGANIZATION OF DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT FACILITIES
36.    The provision of prompt diagnosis and opportune treatment to the sick constitutes the
mnost elementary intervention in the Global Malaria Control Strategy, being considered as a basic
human right. The number and type of services required for the adequate management of malaria
disease will vary in relation to the prevalence of the disease and the risk of severity and death.
The feasibility of providing the required services will depend on the stage of development of the
;gent-eral health services and their use by the population, the human and material resources, and
the degree of community collaboration.
*i1    First Line Care: Health Posts. Because it normally responds to a simple, safe and
cheap treatment, malaria has been traditionally managed by the most peripheral health services
aid their projections into communities, using rather loose diagnostic criteria with very low
specificity. On the other hand, treatment of severe and complicated malaria is a medical
emergency requiring intensive care and presenting a high risk of death. It is therefore essential
chneit peripheral services should be able to recognize signs of severity, and be backed by adequate
refeiTal services.



49
Anneo 'M
Page 8 of it
38.     The preparation of diagnosis, and treatment guidelines for the training and use of
peripheral health workers, is indispensable for the recognition of conditions which could be
handled by the first line care services and those that would require referral. Such guidelines
should include the steps to be taken in initiating treatment of severe cases in their way to referral,
and would be prepared in consultation with local health authorities, clinicians and consultants,
and be adapted to the local pathology, the competencies and the resources available or
potentially available.
39.     Both the prevalence of resistant P. falciparum and the risk of severity should guide the
development of laboratory facilities for microscopical diagnosis. In areas of high resistance,
microscopic diagnosis in health centers of severe fevers would permit the differential diagnosis
of severe P. falciparum malaria which should be immediately referred to hospital, and negatives
which will require further search for diagnostic clues or be referred. Similarly, the differential
diagnosis of peripheral treatment failures could permit the detection of drug resistant infections.
40.     Maternal and child care may be provided in organized MCH clinics. Any such sern icc-
should be used to educate mothers on the risk of delaying diagnosis and treatment of fevers in
young children. If there is any form of prenatal care, it should be used to provide
chemoprophylaxis, or intermittent preventive treatments to primigravidae.
41.     Referral Services. They would normally be provided by ensuring a working liaison
between peripheral health posts and health centers and hospitals in the area for the referral of
severe fever cases and treatment failures. In any case, it should be ensured that diagnostic and
treatment practices at all levels are adequate to the local problems.
B. TRANSMISSION CONTROL MEASURES
42.     The selection and use of preventive measures should be guided by considerations of
feasibility, effectiveness and sustainability, as defined in the Global Malaria Control Strategy. i n
principle, all malarial interventions could be considered for possible application, if suited to tht
local problem and human material resources. A classification of these measures is presented in
table 2.
Table 2.         Transmission control Measures
Expected efect              For individual and family protection      For community protection  
Reduction of man-mosquito contact  Bednets, repellents, protective clothing  Site selection, zooprophylaxis
screening of houses
Destruction of adult mosquitoes  Use of domestic space spraying (aerosols)   Residual indoor insecticides, space spTaying
ultra-low volume sprays
Destruction of mosquito larvae  Peridomestic sanitation, intermittent drying of  Larviciding of water surfaces, intermixtenm
water containers                irrigation, biological control
Source reduction         Peridomestic sanitation, small scale drainage  Environmental sanitation, provision of pined
water, water management
Social participation      Motivation for personal and family protection   Health education. community pat.;cisatlon m



50
Annex 3
Page 9 of 18
Peridomestic sanitation would not be effective unless it forms part of a participatory collective action of the whole
community (Bruce-Chwatt., 1985.)
Reduction of Man-mosquito Contact
43.    The use of bednets, particularly pyrethroid impregnated bednets, is a very effective
method of personal protection when vector activity occurs at the time when people have retired
under the net. In most circumstances, the effect of bednets is more evident in the protection of
infants and young children who are put to bed while adults remain exposed in the early hours of
the night. Nevertheless, many of the most serious malaria vectors have their peak activity in the
central hours of the night, and bednets therefore can considerably reduce man vector contact and
cause great mortality among mosquitoes attracted to man, when bednets are used by a large
proportion of the population.
Measures Against Adult Vectors
44.    Indoor insecticide spraying has been the traditional transmission control measure for
mass application, and its implementation has been thoroughly standardized. In Senegal, only
very small scale application was ever made, and the basic material and human resources to begin
or expand its application in a cost-effective manner are very limited.
45.    Indoor spraying of residual insecticides, even if it does not have the predominant role
given in the past, is one of the most effective ways of reducing malaria transmission, and still has
an important role in malaria control, particularly in the prevention and control of epidemic
outbreaks. It should be indicated in situations where its use could be clearly targeted, and
limited in time and place where the effectiveness and quality of the spraying could be
maintained, even if periodic applications may be required. Insecticide toxicity and the hazard
they may represent for spraymen and the inhabitants of sprayed houses, as well as for the
environment, should be major concerns when contemplating their use.
46.    Traditionally, DDT has been considered the insecticide of first choice, because of its low
toxicity to man, its relatively long residual effect, the slow development of resistance, as well as
the fact that the most common mechanism of DDT resistance does not confer a cross resistance
to other insecticides. Its long persistence in the environment proscribes its use outdoors,
particularly as larvicide. Nevertheless, its use as an indoor spray has been maintained due to the
low probability that spayed surfaces, even of demolished houses, will become agricultural land
or otherwise enter the environmental food chain. New synthetic pyrethroids with long residual
effect, such as deltamethrin and lambda-cyalothrin which are effective at very low doses (25-50
mg/m2) with a very low toxicity, are also relatively competitive with DDT regarding the cost of
applications for malaria control.
47.    Space spraying of insecticides was the first adulticiding method used to control malaria
transmission, based on the attack of adult mosquitoes resting indoors with pyrethrum extracts
dissolved in kerosene (Park Ross, 1936). In general, it is considered that space spraying has very
few indications for malaria control.



51
Annex 3
Page 10 of 18
Measures Aiming at the Destruction of Mosquitoe Larvae
48.   Domestic and peridomestic sanitation has a general value in improving the quality of
life. The impact on malaria transmission of destroying mosquito breeding places depends on the
bionomics of the particular vector species. The elimination of peridomestic mosquito breeding
places, including the protection of domestic water containers, and the maintenance of clean
surroundings would have a general health interest but the specific measure, which may affect
malaria transmission, would vary from area to area. It should be considered that, as an
antimalarial measure, peridomestic sanitation requires a high coverage in order to be effective; a
single remaining active breeding place may suffice to maintain an important focus of
transmission.
49.   Larviciding, as an antimalarial measure, has limited applicability as it affects only
vector density and requires a very high coverage for effectiveness, without the advantages of
sustainability and socioeconomic benefits that sanitation may have.
50.   Biological control includes the use of mosquito pathogens and predators. Although
there are a number of known mosquito pathogens (viruses, bacteria, protozoa, fungi and
nematodes), few have been for mosquito control, and none have reached operational use for
malaria control.
Source Reduction
51.   Environmental sanitation constitutes the most effective and sustainable measure for the
protection of dense human settlements and urban areas. The effectiveness of environmental
sanitation on malaria transmission was recognized for a long time before its biological basis was
understood. Implementation of community-wide environmental sanitation requires the
mobilization and commitment of important community resources, not only for promoting,
supporting and coordinating individual action, but, in most situations, for the undertaking of
engineering works. It is therefore essential that such actions would be carefully planned, based
on the appropriate knowledge of local epidemiology and the bionomics of the vectors it is
intended to control. It is necessary to ensure the continuous availability of professional
entomological and engineering competence for the planning and execution of sanitation projects,
the evaluation of which has to be determined not only for malaria control but from the point of
view of their general health and socioeconomic impact.
52.   Environmental sanitation would consist of the selection of appropriate measures among
the followings.
(a)    Drainage, filling and prevention of unnecessary surface water collection which are
among the most traditional antimosquito measures, although they have been mainly
undertaken in response to economic incentives.  Unfortunately, drainage of
unwanted water seldom has the economic interest of the introduction of water for
irrigation, so that a large proportion of major irrigation projects have not completed
the construction of appropriate drainage systems, or, if constructed, are seldom
properly maintained. Similarly, leakage of irrigation canals, overflows and misuse
of irrigation water often produces extensive breeding places ,and, eventually, water
logging, which is not only a major cause of malaria but also of land degradation,
leading to salinization and eventual desertification.



52
Annex 3
Page 11 of 18
(b)    Artificial shading or clearing of river or canal banks, changes in plant-water-air
interface, changes in salinity, desalinization of coastal swamps, increase of the
organic content of breeding places have very limited local applicability.
Community Participation
53.    The global malaria control strategy places the greatest emphasis on the building of local
capabilities to understand and solve problems in the hope of reaching every home or every
patient, more than in the massive use of drugs or insecticides. The strategy promotes the
establishment of all possible intersectoral linkages, as well as community involvement. The
main aim of public information and education should be: to improve peripheral management of
fevers, particularly in young children in highly endemic areas, to improve the utilization of
health care facilities, and to obtain the actual participation of individuals and communities
instead of the passive acceptance of antimalarial drugs or spraying. School should play a key
role as an instrument of education, not only for children, but also using all forms of adult
education, as well as making all efforts to engage the collaboration of existing community
organizations.
54.    This participatory antimalaria strategy gives a prominent role to the development of
malaria safe habits, including the use of personal protection measures and chemoprophylaxis
during pregnancy. It appears obvious that the development of such habits cannot only be a
function of the school. Women could be essential partners, if their social status would permit
their incorporation into the education process.
Early Detection and Containment, or Prevention of Epidemics
55.   Ideally, malaria epidemics should be forecast and prevented rather than detected and
controlled. Such forecasting may be possible if based on a dynamic information system capable
of identifying high risk periods, areas and populations, and of designing and implementing
appropriate measures of control. As the most relevant information for such identification is of an
ecological, meteorological, social or economic nature, it is necessary to establish linkages and
obtain information on these variables, as well as on plans and status of implementation of
economic development projects.
56.    nevertheless, epidemics are most frequently recognized only when well advanced in their
evolution and, many times, either the epidemic is subsiding or it has resulted in a well
established higher level of endemicity. Under these circumstances, not much benefit may be
expected from the mobilization of extraordinary control measures, particularly if they are not
ready for immediate implementation.
57.   In general, the most urgently needed control measures, in the face of a detected
epidemic, consist in strengthening disease management. If the epidemic has been detected at the
beginning of a potentially long transmission season, residual insecticide spraying should be
considered, particularly if it has been included in emergency preparedness plans, and it is
possible to have the required resources immediately available. Unfortunately, in most cases,
spraying is recommended as the main response without having the capacity to do so in time, so
that spraying is done after transmission has occurred, and thus totally wasted. If preventive
measures cannot be mobilized in time, consideration should be given to mass fever treatment or



53
Annex 3
Page 12 of 18
even mass drug administration. Residual insecticide spraying should be supplemented with the
strengthening of the epidemiological information system and the diagnostic and treatment
facilities, public information and education, the promotion and support of personal protection
measures, and the mobilization of intersectoral collaboration.
V.    MALARIA CONTROL STRATEGY
A. GENERAL OBJECTIVES
58.   The national malaria control strategy has established the reduction of malaria mortality
and morbidity in the general population, particularly in children and pregnant women, as a
general objective of the program. It has set the following targets for the first five years:
(a)    Reduce by 50% the malaria specific mortality in the general population, and
particularly in children less than 5 years old;
(b)    Reduce by 20% malaria morbidity in the general population; and
(c)    Reduce by 50% the incidence of severe malaria among pregnant women.
B. APPROACHES
First Objective
59.   The technical approach to achieve a sustainable reduction of malaria specific mortality,
according to the WHO global malaria control strategy, is to improve case management
throughout the country by making adequate diagnosis and prompt treatment accessible to
everybody, and by improving the utilization of this facility by the population. As shown in the
situation analysis, a number of serious problems hamper the quality of case management,
ranging from poor accessibility of health facilities, negative population attitudes, and cultural
barriers, to poor quality of care due to a lack of appropriate training for health staff, or
insufficient supplies of medicaments and materials. It is obvious that the solutions to these
problems will require action addressed at the communities, as well as at several levels of the
health services. The following approaches are therefore considered essential.
60.   To standardize first line antimalarial treatment. It will be necessary to support and
strengthen the normative function of the central level in order to ensure that it:
(a)    develops national guidelines for diagnosis and treatment of uncomplicated malaria,
within the concept of managing common fevers in a peripheral setting; its main
purpose is to guide health posts and health committees, these guidelines should
include a clear statement of the first line drug, which remains oral chloroquine at a
dose of 25 mg of cloroquine base per kg of body weight, divided in three days,
taking at least 10 mg/kg the first day;
(b)    establishes a clinical definition of cases requiring an antimalarial treatment;



54
Annex 3
Page 13 of 18
(c)    translates the dosages of first line drugs from milligrams per kg of body weight into
number of tablets per age group, according to local conditions; and
(d)    defines signs of severity, which demand immediate referral to a health center or
hospital; the recognition of these signs should be a major component of the program
of health education of the population. The development of these national guidelines
will require the set up of an expert group with the participation of the University,
health professional associations, selected regional and district medical officers and
health post staff, WHO, ORSTOM and Institut Pasteur. This group should review
all existing recommendations, particularly the WHO guidelines for management of a
sick child, in order to adapt them to local conditions.
61.   It will be also necessary to: (i) reproduce and distribute to all treatment providers,
distribution should be reinforced with introductory and subsequent supervisory visits by health
personnel; (ii) review the National Clinical Guidelines to remove recommendations for excessive
use of antimalarials, and to incorporate into these guidelines the clinical criteria established; and
(iii) review all information, as it is generated, on drug susceptibility in order to consider whether
a change of first line treatment is needed.
62.    To standardize anti-malarial drugs, particularly those used at the periphery. It will
be necessary to: a) select a single tablet formulation of chloroquine for all government
purchases; this is particularly important to permit adequate dosage by lay treatment providers,
for whom doses will continue to be expressed in numbers of tablets, in lieu of mg/kg (the current
common availability of chloroquine tablets of 100 and of 150 mg may be a cause of serious
under-dosage); b) ensure that all drugs donated to the country conform to that requirement; and
c) require the same restrictions for all drug imports.
63.    To improve public awareness on opportunity of treatment, and home management.
Although it is recognized that home treatment is seldom adequate, it is also realized that it will
continue to be the most frequent form of management of common diseases such as malaria. The
strategy should therefore concentrate in strengthening the positive aspects of case management at
home, whilst continuing efforts to prevent the more serious negative ones. Public information
and education will be one of the most important lines of action to reduce malaria mortality, and
will concentrate on:
(a)    stressing the importance of immediately initiating treatment with chloroquine of any
fever with chills, particularly in children; children unable to swallow or to retain the
tablets, and those not responding to the treatment should be referred to the health
posts;
(b)    enabling mothers to recognize signs of severity (e.g. loss of conscience, abnormal
behavior, convulsions, intense pallor, little or no urine, jaundice), requiring
immediate referral to a health center or hospital, and to convince them that they
constitute a severe evolution of the disease, and not due to an independent spiritual
cause;
(c)    convincing mothers of the dangers of delaying treatment of severe fever cases, and
the effectiveness of timely medical treatment.



55
Annex 3
Page 14 of 18
64.    A subgroup of the expert group with a broad representation of peripheral health workers
and local health committees should develop the technical messages to be included in the public
information and education program to achieve these objectives. All forms of illustrated and
written materials should be developed, but emphasis should be placed on persistent verbal
communication to obtain full understanding.
65.    To improve accessibility to diagnosis and treatment facilities. Particularly in large
areas with poor communications and small and rather scattered villages. It should be noted that
deaths due to malaria have been recorded in health posts serving such areas, and not in smaller
districts with denser distribution of villages. It will be necessary to: a) promote the
establishment of new health posts and local health committees in malaria-infested areas still too
far from existing ones; and b) support the establishment of antimalarial drug depots, during the
rainy season, in villages which may become isolated from the nearest health post during the peak
of the transmission season, or where the distances to the health post are too great.
66.    To improve malaria case management at the health services. Besides accessibility
and acceptance, health services need to improve the quality of care provided, particularly
regarding diagnostic and treatment practices. The strategy, therefore, calls for the followings.
(a)    The improvement of the competence of health staff by: (i) developing the malaria
component of training courses of all categories of health staff and of general
refresher training activities; (ii) organizing, when necessary, specific refresher
training; (iii) stressing the importance of microscopical diagnosis, particularly for
differential diagnosis of severe fever cases and treatment failures, as well as the
uncertainty of clinical diagnosis, particularly of P. falciparum infections, hardly ever
better than 40%, under the best conditions; and (iv) organizing, in collaboration with
University, ORSTOM, Pasteur Institute and WHO, national and regional seminars;
(b)    The improvement of laboratory diagnosis and its actual use by: (i) contributing to the
strengthening of laboratory services, prioritizing the development of appropriate
malaria microscopy in all regional hospitals; for the diagnosis of severe fever cases
and the follow-up of treatment of severe malaria, and in health centers located in
areas where parasite resistance is prevalent; for the differential diagnosis of
treatment failures of clinically diagnosed cases; and (ii) training and retraining
laboratory technicians in malaria microscopy;
(c)    The improvement in the management of severe malaria, by: (i) including the WHO
Guidelines on the Management of Severe and Complicated Malaria in all training
and retraining activities for medical staff, (ii) acquiring and distributing to all health
centers and hospital services the WHO manual and the computer self-training
program on the management of severe malaria;
(d)    The strengthening in the monitoring of drug sensitivity, by: (i) supporting the
existing capabilities for conducting surveys by ensuring the continued collaboration
of the health services with the University, ORSTOM and Pasteur Institute; (ii)
reporting treatment failures from the periphery; and (iii) developing, in health
centers with performing laboratory services, the capacity for conducting simplified
sensitivity tests, and eventually developing a network of sentinel posts for
monitoring drug resistance with the collaboration of currently involved institutions;



56
Annex 3
Page 15 of 18
(e)    The incorporation of malaria requirements into the development of a national drug
policy incorporating: (i) a clear definition of first and second line drugs, and the
procedures for their updating; and (ii) the inclusion of second line drugs, currently
sulfadoxin-pyrimethamine, in the national list of essential drugs;
(f)    The development and support of a formative supervision system at district, regional
and national levels, stressing reinforcement of local capabilities, retraining and
strengthening support over the mere policing of activities. Such a system should be
based on the full utilization of the epidemiological information system, by: (i)
strengthening the capacity of analysis of the epidemiological situation at the regional
level to monitor trends, identify lacunae, recognize and delimit problems and initiate
epidemiological investigation, request central support if necessary and, eventually,
organize emergency control; (ii) avoiding the consolidation of heterogeneous data,
such as malaria cases diagnosed by medical and non-medical treatment providers, or
clinical and microscopically diagnosed cases; (iii) ensuring the immediate reporting
by telephone, FAX or e-mail of any suspected epidemiological emergency situation;
and (iv) maintaining, through the epidemiological information system, an updated
analysis of the epidemiological situation, including the results of drug sensitivity
testing, and communicating directly to any district medical officer, any
epidemiological information of particular interest to their district.
Second Objective
67.    The main effect of improved case management will be a reduction of malaria mortality,
severity and duration of incapacity; it may therefore include a reduction of prevalence of
symptomatic malaria, but it should not be expected to result in a reduction of incidence. The full
achievement of the second objective will require the implementation of some form of
transmission control. There exist a number of well known methods to reduce malaria
transmission which fall into the following categories:
(a)    source reduction, including all forms of larval control, only useful when breeding
places are few in relation to the population; they are therefore inapplicable to the
conditions of rural tropical Africa. These methods require a high level of coverage
to have any effect, being, therefore, not suitable for individual protection;
(b)    chemoprophylaxis, which is basically a method of individual protection; when used
as a public health control method, it shows rapidly a marked effect when first
introduced, but it is very difficult to maintain for long periods and often results in
local epidemics when interrupted; its continuous use is recognized as one of the
main factors in selecting resistant parasite strains;
(c)    indoor insecticide spraying requires a high coverage to be effective and, therefore,
requires organized disciplined spray teams; its continued use is likely to select vector
resistance and has resulted in local epidemics when discontinued; it is not suitable
for individual protection;
(d)    bednets, particularly insecticide impregnated bednets; a method of individual
protection, which can extend into widespread use and be very effective particularly



57
Annex 3
Page 16 of 18
for vectors biting predominantly in the middle of the night; generally most effective
for the protection of young children and infants.
68.   It is recognized that in areas of high stable endemicity, any form of vector control is
likely to result only in a relatively small delay in the age of occurrence of morbidity and
mortality.
69.   The only control methods suitable for large scale implementation are, therefore, the use
of impregnated bednets and, on very focal applications, indoor residual spraying for the
prevention of malaria epidemics of short expected duration, when they can act as a fore-caster
with reasonable accuracy.
70.   Impregnated bednets. As mentioned above this method is fully additive, i.e. it does not
require a high coverage threshold to be effective, it can begin by being used by a small
proportion of the population, who will be protected, and progressively spread into large scale
use. It nevertheless requires, in order to be effective, that vector biting habits and people
activities after dusk do not coincide to produce important disease transmission before retiring
under the net. A. gambiae and A. arabiensis, the main vectors in Senegal, bite predominantly in
the central hours of the night so that the method is potentially effective and, experience in The
Gambia has shown that it can produce an important reduction in childhood mortality and
morbidity, when the use of bednets is accepted by the population (much greater impact in the
western and central districts than the East of the country, in relation to people's acceptability of
bednets).
71.   It therefore requires a basic acceptability by the population; this is commonly assured in
areas with high density of nuisance mosquitoes, particularly early biters which interfere with
people's sleep. Many people object to using bednets in areas of high humidity and little air
circulation. There are also many cultural factors which may or may not favor the acceptability of
bednets.
72.   Another essential factor to take into consideration is the problem of affordability;
bednets, and their impregnation, are generally too expensive for most people. In The Gambia, a
very successful project, when impregnation was provided free of charge, failed when a charge of
about US$0.50 was claimed for bednet impregnation.
73.   In Senegal, non-impregnated bednets are in wide use in the North, along the river
Senegal (the St. Louis Region), and in similar areas of Louga and part of Tambacounda; these
are also areas with very unstable malaria transmission, with great variation of rainfall from year
to year and, in some areas, periodic risk of floods. Under these conditions, they appear as
suitable areas for the implementation of an impregnated bednet program, based on the promotion
and support of bednet production and impregnation. Production and sale could be based on local
cooperatives or women associations, who could also undertake the impregnation and re-
impregnation under the supervision of the health post
74.   The project strategy, therefore, will consist of:
(a)    during the first year: study the opportunities and modalities for local production and
commercialization of bednets, the organization of impregnation and possible system
of cost recovery;



58
Annex 3
Page 17 of 18
(b)    during the second year: test one or two alternatives of organization and functioning
of the system and their articulation with the health services;
(c)   last three years: full incorporation into the health services and health information
system.
75.    Forecasting and prevention of epidemic outbreaks. Malaria endemicity in Senegal
decreases, in general from south to north and from east to west and, although the country does
not suffer the classical devastating regional epidemics of malaria of densely populated
subtropical dry areas, it has large areas affected by periodic local outbreaks, which may produce
serious increases of mortality and incapacity; these areas of unstable malaria transmission
coincide with the Sahelian eco-epidemiological zone described in the situation analysis; the most
densely populated part of this area lays along the Senegal river valley, and it is constituted by the
St. Louis Region and the Bakel district of the Tambacounda Region.
76.   Epidemic outbreaks appear to be triggered by particular combinations of extensive
floods and high local rainfall, which will produce massive anopheline breeding and the necessary
humidity/temperature to allow sufficient vector survival for the development of the parasite.
Historical data indicates that these situations may last one or two years and be repeated with a
periodicity of approximately five years, which may relate to the paraquinquenial cycle described
elsewhere. It also seems that the main determinant, at least in the lower half of the river may be
the floods, which could be predicted by receiving information of the level of river raising
upstream.
77.   increased vector breeding due to high rainfall will produce a malaria outbreak about a
month later, while the effect of floods will be seen a month after the floods have subsided and
left pools of stagnant water. These periods give the time necessary for the implementation of
preventive measures. Historical records also indicate that the peak of rainfall occurs in August-
September, while the river swelling occurs in September-October. If the area were protected by
bednet impregnation, which normally would have been done before the rainy season in June, the
detection of an epidemic risk would require the emergency re-impregnation of bednets in the
areas at risk.
78.    The prediction of an incoming flood, and the knowledge of how villages might be
affected will, therefore, permit the implementation of certain preventive measures, such as: a)
restocking of health posts, and high risk villages, with anti-malarial drugs for the emergency
period; b) re-impregnation of bednets, and c) eventually, emergency indoor insecticide spraying.
79.   The implementation of the Health Information System will permit the analysis of the
local significance of the factors mentioned above, as well as, in certain areas, more detailed
analysis of the influence of temperature and humidity, in the production of local epidemic
outbreaks. Such studies will permit the definition of indicators of epidemic risk which could be
incorporated into the epidemiological information system.
80.   The project strategy consists of:
(a)    studying, during the first year, potential determinants of epidemic risk in areas of
unstable malaria transmission; mapping of the areas affected by each major



59
Annex 3
Page 18 of 18
determinant and identification of localities at risk; defining indicators with predictive
value, and negotiation for the acquisition of timely information on their variation;
(b)    during the second year, incorporating of indicators into the health information
system at the level of regional epidemiological analysis; organization of alarm
mechanisms, emergency preparedness and response capabilities; evaluation.
(c)    during the last three years, operationalizing the system.
Third Objective
81.   The current technical recommendation for preventing severe malaria in pregnant women,
as well as for preventing low birth weight in areas of high endemicity, is the implementation of a
program of chemoprophylaxis for pregnant women, particularly during their first pregnancy.
This strategy has confronted, practically everywhere, serious problems of compliance and
coverage and different evaluations have suggested, as a possible alternative, periodic treatment
courses (e.g. once a month, or at each attendance at a prenatal consultation) and immediate
treatment of any clinical manifestation.
82.   The project strategy will be: (i) the continued promotion and support of
chemoprophylaxis during pregnancy; (ii) the continued evaluation of severe manifestations
during pregnancy; (iii) the follow-up of field research on possible alternatives for the protection
of pregnant women, and consideration of their possible adoption.



60
Annex 4
Page I of 17
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE LES MALADIES ENDEMIQUES
LES BILHARZIOSES
I.    INTRODUCTION
Historique
1.    DejA citee dans le papyrus d'Eber (1,500 avant J.-C.), l'existence de bilharzioses A S.
haematobium a e etablie par la d6couverte d'oeufs calcifies dans la vessie d'une momie
egyptienne de la XXeme dynastie (plus de 1,000 ans avant J.-C.). Au Moyen-Age, les medecins
arabes parlent de "pissements de sang" des caravaniers revenant de Tombouctou. En 1852,
Theodor Bilharz d6couvre et decrit S. haematobium. En 1904, Manson decrit les oeufs de S.
mansoni.
Definition
2.    Les bilharzioses sont des affections parasitaires dues A des vers plats, les bilharzies ou
schistosomes, hematophages vivant dans le systeme circulatoire. Cinq especes sont pathogenes
pour l'homme, mais deux seulement sont presentes au Senegal. Shistosoma haematobium est
I'agent de la bilharziose uro-genitale; Shistosoma mansoni est responsable de la bilharziose
intestinale.
3.    S'il a toujours exist6 des foyers diss6mines de bilharzioses a S. haematobium au Senegal,
la bilharziose A S. mansoni est un phenomene recent qui est lid aux modifications ecologiques
dues aux projets d'irrigation et a la construction de barrages sur le fleuve Senegal et en
Casamance. En particulier dans la region de St Louis, la construction du barrage de Diama en
1986 a ete A l'origine d'une epidemie foudroyante de bilharziose a S mansoni qui est toujours en
phase d'expansion.
Cycle parasitaire
4.    Les oeufs de S. haematobium ou de S mansoni excretes par l'homme dans les canaux ou
les mares d'eau douce liberent des miracidiums qui infestent l'h6te intermediaire, qui est un
mollusque d'eau douce. Le developpement de ces miracidiums dans l'h6te intermediaire aboutit
A la formation de larves qui s'echappent pour passer dans 1'eau avant de penetrer chez l'h6te
definitif, I'homme. L'infestation de I'homme s'effectue lors des bains dans des eaux douces,
contamin6es par les mollusques.
5.    Les bilharzioses humaines sont liees A la presence des mollusques h6tes intermediaires
dont 1'existence est conditionnee a des facteurs 6co-bio-climatiques bien definis. L'etude de ces
facteurs permet d'evaluer les risques d'apparition de la maladie bilharzienne. Enfin, il existe une
dynamique dans la distribution geographique des mollusques et une evolution dans leur r6le



61
Annex 4
Page 2 of 17
epidemiologique. C'est pourquoi une surveillance malacologique constante et reguliere est
necessaire surtout dans les zones oui les conditions ecologiques changent.
6.     Les h6tes intermrdiaires des bilharzioses sont des petits mollusques d'eau douce. L'hote
intennediaire de la bilharziose humaine a S. mansoni au Senegal est Biomphalariapfeifferi. Les
h6tes intermrdiaires de la bilharziose humaine A S. haematobium sont au Senegal B. globosus,
B. senegalensis et B. umbilicatus. B. truncatus a toujours e  le bulin le plus frequent dans la
region de St Louis, probablement en raison de sa tolerance de la salinite, mais il n'intervient pas
actuellement dans la transmission de la bilharziose humaine dans cette region.
7.     Les gites de ces mollusques se trouvent toujours dans des eaux peu profondes, stagnantes
ou faiblement courantes, riches en matieres organiques et comportant une vegetation aquatique
qui sert de support et de nourriture aux mollusques. La temperature de l'eau doit etre comprise
entre 25 et 30 degres Celsius; par contre le pH et la salinite peuvent varier dans de larges
proportions; les mollusques preferent les zones ombragees, ils vivent en general a 20 ou 30 cm
de profondeur sur les tiges des plantes, les feuilles mortes ou la boue du fond. Enfin, il a b
remarque que ces mollusques etaient plus abondant dans la periode allant de mai A aouit, oil les
temperatures sont plus elevees (23 A 30 degres Celsius).
8.    B. pfeifferi est tres sensible A la dessiccation et ne vit que dans des gi^tes A eau
perrnanente et souillee. II n'est tolerant ni A la salinite de 1'eau ni au pH acide. Les bulins, tres
resistants A la secheresse a l'exception de B. globosus, peuvent vivre dans des mares temporaires
et etre transportes A grande distance par des boues sechees, les sabots des animaux, les oiseaux.
En saison seche, les densites de mollusques sont elevees dans les gites permanents.
H.    SYMPTOMATOLOGIE DES INFECTIONS A SCHISTOSOMES
Phase de penetration et phase d'invasion
9.     La symptomatologie est commune aux deux bilharzioses A S. haematobium et A S.
mansoni lors de la phase de penetration et de la phase d'invasion. La phase de penetration
correspond A la penetration transcutanee des furcocercaires et se traduit par une dermatite tres
discrete voire inapparente. La phase d'invasion correspond aux reactions de l'organisme mis en
contact avec les substances antigeniques et toxiques des vers et se traduit par des phenomenes
allergiques avec de la fievre, des sueurs et des cephalees. Cette phase n'est marquee que lors des
primo-infections; elle est discrete lors des reinfestations successives. Enfin, cette phase est plus
fr6quente et plus grave pour S. mansoni.
Phase d'etat
10.   C'est souvent la periode oui le patient decouvre sa maladie. Dans le cas de la bilharziose
a S. haematobium, cette periode correspond A la ponte de nombreux oeufs dans la vessie et
l'uretere. Les principaux sympt6mes sont l'hematurie, pratiquement toujours presentes, et des
troubles de la miction urinaire. Des complications apparaissent chez un faible pourcentage de
personnes infect6es, telles que des infections de la vessie et des st6noses ureterales qui peuvent
conduire A des atteintes graves des reins. Enfin, des signes cutanes (papules non prurigineuses)
peuvent etre observes sur les zones peri-ombilicales ou thoraciques.



62
Annex 4
Page 3 of 17
11.    Dans le cas de la bilharziose a S. mansoni, cette periode apparait trois mois environ
apres le bain infestant et se traduit par une diarrhee et des douleurs abdominales. L'evolution de
cette atteinte intestinale est gen6ralement favorable, meme sans traitement. Le risque majeur de
cette maladie est la complication au niveau du foie qui peut entrainer la mort (emboles ovulaires
dans le foie--thrombose des veinules du foie--hepato-splenomegalie--hypertension
portale->h6morragies digestives-*ruptures de varices oesophagiennes-*mort). D'autres
complications peuvent &re observees avec S. mansoni dues A des migrations des oeufs dans le
systeme cardio-pulmonaire et dans le systeme nerveux.
A l'echelle communautaire
12.   Il semble exister: (i) une correlation entre l'intensite de l'infection et le developpement
de complications graves ; (ii) une correlation entre la prevalence de la maladie et l'intensite de
l'infection; et (iii) une correlation entre la prevalence et le developpement de complications
graves.
III.   CARACTERISTIQuEs DES DIFFERENTES ZONES D'ENDEMIE
La Region de St Louis
13.    Ecologiquement, la region peut etre divisee en deux parties: le Walo qui correspond a la
plaine alluviale s'etendant sur une vingtaine de kms de part et d'autre du lit principal du fleuve et
dans laquelle on pratique des cultures de decrues, et le Dieri, zone semi-aride situee en bordure
du Walo ou se pratiquent les cultures pluviales; il inclut les vallees fossiles, en particulier, la
vallee du Ferlo.
14.    La vallee du fleuve Senegal est divisee en trois parties: la haute vallee qui se situe
presque entierement en territoire malien, la moyenne vallee qui s'etend sur pres de 500 km et qui
va de Matam A Richard-Toll, et le Delta qui s'6tend sur 170 km et qui va de Richard-Toll A St
Louis.
15.    Le Delta est lui-meme subdivise en cinq zones: le bas Delta du fleuve S6negal, le moyen
Delta du fleuve Senegal oiu se trouve la riviere Lampsar, le haut Delta du fleuve Senegal, le lac
de Guiers, et le Dieri situe au sud de la route principale St Louis- Matam.
(a)    Le bas Delta (Walo). Cette region est situee entre St Louis et Debi et entre le fleuve
Senegal et la riviere Djeuss. Avant la construction du barrage, il y avait peu
d'agriculture dans la zone A cause de l'intrusion de l'eau salke. Apres la
construction du barrage de Diama (1986), des projets d'irrigation furent developpes.
(b)    Le moyen Delta (Walo). Cette region a et depuis longtemps protegee de
l'intrusion de l'eau salee par de petits barrages pour fournir de l'eau douce A St
Louis.
(c)    Le haut Delta (Walo). Cette region etait envahie par les eaux salkes avant la
construction du barrage Diama; elle est maintenant une zone importante pour la
culture du riz et de la canne A sucre. Cette zone est situee entre le fleuve Senegal et



63
Annex 4
Page 4 of 17
la route principale, entre Debi et Dagana. Elle inclut les villes de Ross-Bethio et
Richard-Toll.
(d)    Le lac de Guiers. Un canal relie le fleuve Sen6gal et le lac de Guiers qui est la
principale source d'eau de Dakar. Les activites agricoles sont importantes et
comprennent les cultures du riz et de la canne a sucre.
(e)    Le Dieri. Le Dieri s'etend des deux bords du lac de Guiers et est limite au nord par
la route principale St Louis- Matam et au sud par la region de Louga. La population
est principalement nomade, Peul et Maure.
16.    La moyenne vallee s'etend dans une plaine alluviale de 20 km de large et peut etre
divisee en deux zones: le Walo ou est pratiquee la culture irriguee de riz, et le Di&ri, sec, au sud
de la route principale. Dans la moyenne vallee, le Dieri inclut les vallees fossiles, en particulier
la vallee fossile du Ferlo. Les vallees fossiles font l'objet d'un projet de revitalisation grace a un
projet d'irrigation a partir des crues du fleuve Senegal. Au sud de Matam, la vallee se retrecit et
se creusejusqu'a la haute vallee.
Les autres regions
17.    Suite a l'enquete de prevalence effectuee dans le cadre de la preparation du projet en
avril 96, les zones touchees par les bilharzioses se distinguent en deux groupes. Le premier
groupe correspond aux zones endemiques riveraines du fleuve Faleme, et de la riviere Anambe,
qui font l'objet de programmes d'irrigation et de developpement agricole; le deuxieme groupe
correspond aux zones endemiques qui ne peuvent etre rattachees a des bassins fluviaux, telles
que celles situees dans les regions de Diourbel, Kaolack, Fatick, Tambacounda et Thies et qui
sont liees a des mares temporaires.
18.    Dans le bassin de la Faleme, la region endemique se situe autour de Bakel ou les
perimetres irrigues sont tres nombreux. Le bassin compte environ 150 villages pour une
population approximative de 25,000 habitants. Dans cette region, l'emigration est tres
importante. Dans le bassin de l'Anambe, la zone endemique est liee au programmme de
developpement de riziculture irriguee. Le bassin compte environ 200 villages peuplds par pres
de 30,000 habitants dont la majorite est impliquee dans le projet rizicole.
19.    Dans les regions endemiques qui ne peuvent etre rattachees a des bassins fluviaux, la
bilharziose urinaire se developpe en foyers a proximite de mares temporaires infestees par des
mollusques-vecteurs. Ces mares temporaires sont assechees de mars ajuillet. Pendant cette
periode les mollusques s'enfoncent dans la terre pour ressortir a la saison des pluies lors de la
reconstitution des mares. II est estimd qu'au moins 200 villages (population approximative de
100,000 habitants) sont endemiques a cause de la proximite de mares temporaires infestees, dont
au minimum 1 00 villages dans la region de Tambacounda.
20.    La rdgion de Ziguinchor, qui n'a pas ete incluse dans l'enquete, comprend des zones
endemiques liees aux barrages anti-sel d'Affiniam (departement de Bignona) et de Guidel
(ddpartement de Ziguinchor) et des foyers endemiques liNs a des mares temporaires. II est estime
qu'environ une centaine de villages sont endemiques pour une population approximative 50,000
habitants.



64
Annex 4
Page 5 of 17
IV.   LA SITUATION EPIDEMIQUE ACTUELLE DES BILHARZIOSES HUMAINES
La region de St Louis
21.    Bilharziose a S. haematobium. Le detail des resultats par village montre des
differences importantes dans la prevalence et l'intensite de la bilharziose A S. haematobium et
reflete des niveaux variables de transmission dans les differentes zones du bassin du fleuve
Senegal. Le plus grand nombre de villages infectes et les villages ayant les plus fortes
prevalences et les plus fortes infestations ont ete observes dans le bas Delta dans l'aire de la
riviere Lampsar, et a un niveau moindre dans la zone Walo de la moyenne vallee. Dans la zone
du Dieri, seulement 6 villages sont infectes bien que les conditions de vie soient les memes. Ces
resultats soulignent la nature extremement localisee de la transmission de la bilharziose.
22.    Bilharziose a S. mansoni. Les prevalences sont les plus hautes dans le haut Delta avec
une prevalence moyenne de 95.6% et dans tous les villages autour du Lac de Guiers ou l'on
trouve une prevalence moyenne de 71.8%. Les prevalence sont moyennes dans la zone du Bas
Delta / riviere de Lampsar avec une prevalence moyenne de 22.8%. Par contre les prevalences
sont encore basses dans le bas Delta du fleuve Senegal.
Les autres regions
23.    Les resultats d'une enquete de prevalence realisee en avril 1996 dans le cadre de la
preparation de ce projet montre les resultats suivants.
(a)    a) II n'a pas et trouve de cas de bilharziose intestinale (S. mansoni) en dehors de la
region de St Louis, A part quelques cas importes dans la region de Kolda.
(b)    b) II existe des foyers de bilharzioses urinaires dans pratiquement toutes les regions
du Senegal, A l'exception de celle de Dakar. Les details de l'enquete sont donnees plus
loin sous forme de carte.
Les tendances 6pid6miotogiques recentes dans la region de St Louis
24.    Depuis la construction du barrage de Diama, en 1986, les bilharzioses humaines A S.
haematobium et S. mansoni sont en expansion dans la region de St Louis. Avant la
construction du barrage, it n'existait pas de bilharzioses A S. mansoni. Seule la bilharziose A S.
haematobium etait presente A des taux de prevalence faible et dans des foyers tres localises.
25.    L'evolution de l'epidemie de bilharziose a S. mansoni est liee A l'evolution de l'h6te
intermediaire Biomphalaria pfeifferi. Avant la construction du barrage, Biomphalaria pfeifferi
n'etait present que dans la partie la plus douce du Lac de Guiers, et il n'y avait pas de cas de
bilharziose A S. mansoni. Depuis la construction du barrage, sa multiplication a e  foudroyante
aussi bien vers l'ouest qu'a l'est. Grace aux nouvelles conditions ecologiques, en particulier la
diminution de la salinite et l'alcalinisation de l'eau, Biomphalariapfeifferi a envahi de proche en
proche le Lac de Guiers, puis le Canal principal, les canaux d'irrigation, A Mbodienne et A Podor,
le canal et le marigot de Taouey, la riviere Lampsar et le fleuve Senegal.



IBRD 2863A
IB-                          I7'              -                                           15 I                          14                           13 13'I                                                                         S tN 4GA L
KA  A  n  I 1'  I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MWn" fy oP P6bI H.oith ..d Sooi. Aoti..SNEA
M       A   U   R  I TI       I A                              MW',OI. r.d.IS-t Pobliqo..t.6I'Aoli- S-io.                                 SNEA
SENEGAL RIVER,M                                        I  A N  I A                                                                                          PREVALENCE OF SCHISTOSOMIASIS
-    -                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .doI-.1 -omy-dg.. Uo 6yooUADo 19       PREVALENCE DE LA  BILHARZIOSE
34,,                            23~~~~~~~~~~ ESPOIR Proqon
-                                                                 Mo,' --LLEYm  ,,< 5;> = 3 o,           2IE5zdOIalplOglOtmrmocoJow[Um_dDo4 (UC<il              -" MAJOR RIVERS
;;Ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d                                                          l=                           - 1fit-cu*PeU^Dd - - MINOR TRIBUTARIES
IRREGULAR STREAMS
-                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUISSEAUX INTERMITTENTS
'                                                                                                       So3 A~ IN-T                                 SENEGAL  RIVER                                     1                          ECO-GEQAP50C EONE LMITS
_     ~        Louis    MpoI         _--                                   -                                                 VALLEY                                                                SCHISTOSOMIASIS ENDEMICITY
Ndan o                                                     Logb\               L                                                                                                       ENDEMICITE DE LA .ILnARZIOSE
C4    M bUS@                                                                                                                                                e -t-bu6B  0-9%
qJ   LITTC)RAL)v--                                                                   SOROTa)~- SSOgoto                                                                               10- D3opu Ginq*r-~  _F    E  Rt   1.O  > iontrou    - *     >79%
' 20-49%
o'                                   RAMnon -                                 -4 R                                                   . IQ  n  A                                                                             507 9 IL  .   %
Q)              ~~LITTORAL              /   ~ORf                LO0U GA                                                  A,
-1-U
0---~~ ~~~                                                           ~             ~~~~~~ - -< - -A VAIn9ro  PD;M RooM                                                            ,,,,j-
0  Ndindi  0T,AI                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10-19%
C  CAP-        - -~ .           oQ      o0                                                                                                                                                                 A      20h49
DAKAR -              -SA -6ko Cloon.  r lou6~ O\ R8>,   L~ -                                                                                                                                                                    50. -79%............... _   K   O  r   eW  .....  >U  \  X  a    iwrw \ri 1   -    09
o ~    ~       ~       __ -E9Ngc-iM AIE  Sr AO~               T        M   A X                                     =t                    \_                                          SO-                                                             EI
700                       -                                                                                                                                                                                 A,,    79._
--  7'ZFATICK.BELT/A   A                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - ISOHYETS
Ft,                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Nd,ob66.                                                                                                                     ISOHETE
/ _             _0                                                                                                                                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-- -----e--,'~~~~~~---  - Aoc~~~~~ock~~  -'  RAULA3O<N    Luo,'E,ool.                                                                                  JMITES DE REGIONS~LIMTES E REION
Jool-Podi..,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o' --  ""'A                                                'o.,                                                0      REGION CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D REIO   CPIAL
I AG                                               400 U  I14'                                                                                                                 CHEP-1IEUX DE REGION
A'~~'"  do     -       ~ ~          J OKp~ni~oo    -    ---~~~  -Nqood4 -p-                                                                          *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     AC  I .
-------------                        0dop0            A                            AoL               AMALI                                                                                              RAIAEGINATIOUNDARIES
/           ____                        Oom~~~~~~~MBTa6COUvn a                  Roo                                                 NERNAIONA BOUNDARIES
----- --~                                                                                                  TA,A -G Z \-                       _LIMITES GE REGIONS
'7 - - - - - - - -                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
t6i~ .op oo, prodo. 6~, I. .op O.,  (Too o TI,. Wrod go-
BANJUL~~~~~N   T HE            IoR          ,)r""(                                                                                                                               . Io-oo.".' oo(-rod.o-oo,,M. -4oyd .o,oOohoo
,~~-Ak4DIA1..A~~~~~~             -               ~~4.~~flAo,oIIR,IIo4                                                                        00 4*~~~~~~~OO0-9doo--pOiO,  lbO. oOoilf.((wooId 8.4 G-op.o
K  0           VEli    oro   34M30                     M4 
/                 ~~~~~~~~~A                          A: --'Fomer   --
ZlGUlN\kCHO'k'4  C   A   S  A   M   A   N                                           L-- A..>                     -       --- - -p-oo-s- ->-.                                                                       ALGERIA
Rioooo  0Moo ..o     A                    ' A              -- -*                                                                                                     Sio' 
>_-ZigmincI,orS   . S~.2                                                                                                          T       A Kdoo                                           MAURITAI
GUINEA -BISSAU                                                                                                                            k ~ 
12'                                                              "                                                                         "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ThE~~~~~~~~~~~'-,o.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"1  ~~~~~NIGER
0            50           3100                                                          )- "                                                                    U    N      A3'                                 A    BM.~/UEN"
L     _ _   _ _   _ _   _                                                            --G                                                                                                                            IN A-         F'  ASO                       N   z
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                IAUO GUNA(                      T        "
17'                           16-                           15-                           1'                           13                                                                    " 12OND\VO-PHAN
MAORCH 1997






65
Annex 4
Page 6 of 17
26.    En 1988, les premiers cas de bilharzioses a S. mansoni sont decouverts A Richard-Toll;
en 1990, une etude montre que 60% des personnes examinees sont infectees. Les dernieres
enquetes montrent des prevalences moyennes de 44% dans le Walo et de 72% dans le lac de
Guiers. Elles montrent aussi des charges parasitaires tres importantes, mesurees par le decompte
des oeufs dans les selles. Un taux de 200 oeufs/lOml est considere comme une charge parasitaire
elevee; dans les villages endemiques de la region de St Louis, les charges parasitaires peuvent
atteindre plusieurs milliers d'oeufs/lOml, ce qui laisse supposer la presence de plusieurs
centaines de vers dans l'organisme.
27.    L'extreme rapidite et l'intensite de l'evolution de l'epidemie est non seulement due A la
grande multiplication de son h6te intermediaire mais aussi A la tres grande compatibilite de
celui-ci avec le parasite, ce qui est une particularite de l'epidemie de la region de St Louis. Les
taux d'infestation des Biomphalaria Pfeifferi sont extremement eleves et peuvent souvent
atteindre 100%. Enfin, la transmission A l'homme se fait toute l'annee et la reinfestation est tres
rapide. Il existe une tres grande dependance des populations aux eaux des canaux pour leurs
activites aussi bien economiques, domestiques que recreationnelles. Cette dependance presque
entiere des populations aux eaux des canaux est suffisante pour expliquer la reinfestation rapide
apres traitement. Elle met en cause l'int&& d'une strategie de traitement de masse sans d'autres
mesures d'accompagnement.
28.    Dans la region de St Louis, les etudes sur la prevalence et sur l'intensite de l'infestation
semblent demontrer les conclusions suivantes: (i) la prevalence est la plus importante chez les
sujets ages entre 10 et 20 ans, avec un pic vers 15 ans; (ii) la prevalence chez les sujets de plus
de 20 ans est plus importante dans les populations sans immunite ou avec une immunite
partielle; (iii) l'intensite de l'infection est plus importante dans les populations n'ayant pas
acquis d'immunite ou ayant une immunite partielle; (iv) l'intensite de l'infection est plus
importante chez les enfants entre 5 et 15 ans que chez les adultes; et (v) enfin, la reinfection est
plus rapide dans les populations n'ayant pas d'immunite ou ayant une immunite partielle, et chez
les enfants de moins de 5 A 15 ans.
29.    L'epidemie de bilharziose a S. haematobium est moins intense que celle de la
bilharziose A S. mansoni. Sa transmission est saisonnire (saison des pluies); les taux
d'infestation des mollusques toument autour de 40 A 50%; les taux de prevalence dans les
villages sont rarement superieurs A 50%; enfin, l'intensite des infestations est nettement moindre
que dans le cas de la bilharziose intestinale (<500 oeufs/lOml). Les foyers d'extension se
trouvent surtout dans le departement de Podor, en particulier au niveau de l'Ile A Morphile, et
dans le departement de Dagana, surtout dans les foyers du bas-fleuve, Lampsar et Mbodienne.
30.    L'augmentation de la prevalence de la bilharziose A S. haematobium est la consequence
directe des programmes de developpement et d'irrigation fournissant les habitats qui facilitent la
multiplication des bulins B. senegalensis et B. globosus. La surface rizicole est passee de 12,000
hectares en 1983 A 67,788 ha en 1994. Est associee A la culture du riz la creation de canaux
d'irrigation et de mares temporaires qui sont les habitats privilegies de Bulinus senegalensis.
Enfin, la construction des barrages de Manantali et de Diama ont permis une plus grande stabilite
des niveaux des eaux, el6ment favorable A la multiplication des bulins, en particulier B. globosus.



66
Annex 4
Page 7 of 17
Les tendances epidemiologiques recentes dans les autres regions
31.    Dans les autres regions, I'endemie ne concerne que la bilharziose urinaire. Dans les
bassins de la Faleme et de l'Anambe et dans la zone des barrages anti-sel de la region de
Ziguinchor, l'endemie est stable sur les dix demieres annees. Mais le developpement des
programmes agricoles et d'irrigation font craindre une expansion rapide de l'endemie. Dans les
villages endemiques lies aux mares temporaires, 1'endemie est stable et s'etend peu aux villages
voisins. L'endemie est et reste tres localisee.
Les bilharzioses chez les animaux
32.    Les bilharzioses A S. haematobium et A S. mansoni ne sont pas des zoonoses. Les
animaux ne sont pas des h6tes definitifs pour les bilharzioses humaines au Senegal. Chez le
betail du Senegal, on ne rencontre que deux especes de schistosomes: Schistosoma bovis
principalement chez les bovins et S. curassoni qui parasite surtout les petits ruminants. L'etude
de I'infestation naturelle des h6tes definitifs et des mollusques h6tes intermediaires permet de
localiser ces schistosomes dans deux grandes zones: au Nord dans la Region de St Louis, et A
l'est et au sud-est dans les Regions de Tambacounda et de Kolda.
V.    MOYENS OPERATIONNELS POUR LA LUTTE CONTRE LEs BILHARZIOSES
Les examens diagnostiques
33.    La mise en evidence des oeufs dans les urines (S. haematobium) et dans les selles (S.
mcansoni) apporte la preuve diagnostique. Elle peut se faire, d'une part par un examen direct soit
de selles soit d'urine, d'autre part par un examen de Kato-Katz pour les selles ou par filtration
apres coloration pour les urines. A noter que l'observation d'oeufs ne peut se faire que dans la
sixieme semaine apres le contact infestant et que, par consequent, aucun diagnostic
parasitologique direct n'est possible en periode d' invasion. Un diagnostic presomptif de
bilharziose A S haematobium peut etre apporte par l'examen d'urine avec hemastix.
Les medicaments antibilharziens
34.    Les bilharzioses ont toujours ete difficiles A traiter car les premiers medicaments utilises
ont souvent e  tres toxiques et peu efficaces. Le niridazole ou Ambilhar a represente en son
temps un indeniable progres. II est maintenant largement supplante par le praziquantel,
l'oxamniquine et le metrifonate qui figurent tous sur la liste modele des mddicaments essentiels
de l'OMS.
Surveillance et contr61e des h6tes intermediaires
35.   II importe de rechercher les mollusques pour determiner les zones d'endemie, ainsi que
la densit6 et le taux d'infection par les cercaires, en vue de mettre en oeuvre un programme de
lutte et d'en assurer le suivi. Les prospections malacogiques englobent divers e1lments : le
nombre de mollusques et leur taux d'infestation, oeufs de mollusques, mollusques caches sous
terre ou dans lteau. Cet effort permettra d'etablir un plan d'action. Les principales methodes
d'6limination sont l'application d'un molluscicide et l'amenagement de l'environnement.



67
Annex 4
Page 8 of 17
36.    Amenagement de l'Environnement. II est essentiel de modifier 1'environnement pour
eliminer les mollusques. Une telle entreprise est generalement couteuse et ne peut donc etre
r6alisee que sur des superficies limitees, conjointement a des investissements dans la production
agricole et la conservation de 1'eau. Les moyens de modification de l'environnement pour
contr6ler l'h6te intermediaire sont les suivants:
(a)    a) Le desherbage des bords d'eau. Son cout est faible si l'on considere la main
d'oeuvre de la population comme gratuite. Si son efficacite theorique est bonne, son
efficacite pratique depend d'une bonne organisation de la population et de la rigueur (les
herbes repoussent vite!).
(b)    b) La gestion des cours d'eau. Plusieurs moyens ont ete proposes mais ils sont
cofiteux ou bien ils demandent une grande organisation et une connaissance des
parametres malacologiques: (i) un changement brutal du niveau de l'eau etlou un
assechement temporaire qui entraine une dessication que ne supporte pas Biomphalaria
pfeifferi; (ii) la creation d'un courant fort qui detache les mollusques de leur point
d'ancrage ; (iii) couvrir les eaux ; et (iv) cimenter ou paver les bords et les parois des
canaux aux alentours des points de contact homme-eau (on pourrait penser a 200 ou 300
m).
37.    La lutte Chimique a la Niclosamide. Le coat du niclosamide pour le traitement d'un
m3 d'eau stagnante est egal a environ 19 FCFA (< US$ 0.05) a la concentration de 0.5/1 million.
L'efficacite theorique est bonne, mais l'efficacite pratique depend: (i) de l'identification
correcte des sites de transmission; (ii) de l'identification correcte du cycle de reproduction de
l'h6te intermediaire (saisonalite); (iii) du respect des conditions d'application ; (iv) de la
coordination avec le traitement de la population ; et (v) des autres mesures de lutte contre l'hote
intermediaire. L'effet secondaire est que le traitement tue les poissons. En conclusion, cette
technique sera envisagee dans le cas de mares temporaires en vue d'une eradication ou bien dans
des sites de transmission intense bien delimites.
Les autres moyens de lutte
38.    Les mesures d'hygiene. L'objectif est de diminuer la contamination du milieu
aquatique. L'approvisionnement en eau salubre, I'assainissement et la protection des individus
revetent egalement une grande importance dans la lutte contre la bilharziose, car elles peuvent
bloquer une etape du cycle de vie du schistosome. Cependant, ces methodes ne sont pas faciles a
appliquer par suite du manque de ressources economiques pour les deux premieres, tandis que la
derniere pose des problemes de technologie, d'organisation et de gestion.
(a)    La latrinisation. L'efficacite theorique est bonne mais beaucoup plus faible en
pratique. Un programme de construction de latrines doit etre base sur une demande
de la population, etre precede d'une etude sur les coutumes et accompagne d'un
vaste programme de promotion.
(b)    L'adduction en eau potable. L'efficacite theorique et pratique est faible.
(c)    La creation d'espaces de contact (homme-eau) non contaminants. La strategie
est de diminuer le contact avec les eaux infestees par la creation au bord des canaux



68
Annex 4
Page 9 of 17
d'espaces ou on peut d6contaminer l'eau en la laissant reposer durant 24 heures.
Phase experimentale.
39.    L'IEC. L'objectif des campagnes d'IEC est d'informer les populations des risques de la
maladie, des signes de reconnaissances de la maladie, des changements de comportement pour
eviter l'infection et des moyens de prevention. Les populations cibles sont surtout les enfants et
les meres de famille.
Table 1:       Caracteristiques des methodes de lutte
Strat6gie    Coot    Coot  EfficacitM   Efficacite  Apport  Implicatio   Degre       Effets
Initial  Entretien Imm6diate Long Terme  SSP     Population Autofinancemen   Positifs
Secondaires
D16pistage    +++    +++     ++++       ...         ....        +          +            /
actif__ _                                                       _ _
Depistage    ++       +       ++        ++                     ++++       ++++
passif          I_ _ _ __ _ __I_ _ _
Latrines    ++++     +        +         ++          ++        ...         ++.
Eau potable  ++++     ++       +         ++          ..+       ++++         ++         ....
D6sherbage    +        +       +         ++           /        ++++        ++++         ++
des bords                                    _
Lutte     +.+      +++      +++       +++          ++                                (-)
chimique                                       I
IEC      ++++                        +++                    ++++       ++++        ++.+
*      Si la promotion de l'hygiene y est associ6e
(-)    Effet n6gatif sur la faune aquatique
VI.    ORGANISATION DE LA LUTTE CONTRE LES BILHARZIOSES
Service National des Grandes Endemies
40.    C'est au SNGE qu'appartient la responsabilite de la redaction et de l'operationalisation
du Programme National de Lutte contre les bilharzioses humaines. Le Service est decentralise et
est represente au niveau regional par les Secteurs des Grandes Endemies dont le personnel est
partie integrante de 1'6quipe medicale regionale, sous la direction du MCR. Le personnel affecte
au Secteur des Grandes Endemies est variable en fonction des besoins de la Region Medicale; il
comprend en general un medecin epidemiologiste qui seconde le MCR.
Les services de Sante Peripheriques
41.    Les activites de surveillance et de lutte relevant de la responsabilite du MSPAS sont
effectuees par les personnels de sante des districts et des Regions Medicales. Ces activites sont
planifiees dans le cadre des Plans de Developpement des Regions Medicales et des Districts.
Les Centres de Recherche
42.    Ils peuvent etre soit nationaux, telles que la Faculte des Sciences et Techniques et la
Faculte de Medecine et de Pharmacie de l'Universite Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar ou le
Laboratoire National de Recherche Veterinaire, soit etrangers telles que l'ORSTOM, l'Institut
Pasteur, les universites d'Anvers et de Leyden. Ils sont, pour le SNGE des p6les d'excellence
qui peuvent le conseiller sur les modifications des strategies de lutte. Ces Centres menent des



69
Annex 4
Page 10 of 17
etudes soit dans le cadre de leur programme propre de recherche, soit A la demande du MSPAS.
Des protocoles de partenariat sont souhaitables.
Cas de la Region de St Louis
43.    L'epidemie recente de bilharziose dfie A la construction du barrage de Diama a focalise
l'attention du monde scientifique et des bailleurs de fonds sur la region de St Louis. Un projet de
recherche, le projet ESPOIR, a ete cree en 1991 et a demarre ses activites en 1992. Un
laboratoire de recherche, le Centre d'Investigations Biologiques, et un laboratoire
d'immunologie cellulaire ont ete crees A la meme epoque, respectivement A Richard-Toll et A
Sor. Une reflexion a et entamee pour preciser les r6les respectifs de chacun des organismes et
des differents services de sante dans la lutte contre les maladies endemiques, en particulier dans
le cadre du Programme National de Lutte contre les Bilharzioses Humaines.
44.    Le programme ESPOIR est un programme de recherche et de lutte integree sur les
bilharzioses dans la region de St Louis. Sa Direction est assuree par le MCR, la direction
technique dtant assuree par le medecin-chef du Secteur des Grandes Endemies assiste d'un
medecin epidemiologiste.
45.    Le Centre d'Investigation Biologique (CIB) se confond avec le laboratoire du Centre
de Sante de Richard-Toll et est sous la responsabilite du medecin-chef de district. Le laboratoire
d'immunologie cellulaire de Sor depend du Secteur des Grandes Endemies et releve de l'autorite
du medecin-chef du Secteur des Grandes Endemies.
VII. STRATEGIE DE LA LUTTE CONTRE LA BILHARZIOSE URINAIRE DANS LE CADRE DU
PROJET
Objectif General
46.    Le projet, a pour but de reduire la morbidite et la prevalence de la bilharziose urinaire
dans toutes les regions du Senegal A l'exception des regions de Dakar (oui il n'y a pas de cas de
bilharziose) et de St Louis (ofu la lutte fait l'objet du programme ESPOIR), et, dans certaines
zones, d'en interrompre la transmission. Ses objectifs specifiques sont les suivants:
(a)    reduire globalement de 40 % la prevalence de la bilharziose urinaire au sein de la
population;
(b)    eliminer les mollusques infectes dans les mares temporaires.
Approche
47.    Les strategies techniques retenues pour realiser ces objectifs ont ete elaborees par le
SNGE du MSPAS, avec I'aide du Comite consultatif d'experts pour la lutte contre la bilharziose.
Elles varient selon le niveau d'endemicite de la zone ou elles doivent etre appliquees. Trois
niveaux d'endemicite ont ete definis en fonction du taux d'infestation des villageois, et des
mesures techniques differentes sont prevues pour chacun de ces niveaux. Les activites
specifiques entreprises dans chaque zone doivent etre en conformite avec les strategies
techniques correspondant au niveau d'endemicite de cette zone.



70
Annex 4
Page 11 of 17
48.     Les principales m6thodes seront la chimiotherapie pour la lutte contre la morbidite, et
l'application dans les mares temporaires infestees de molluscicide pour l'e1imination des
mollusques. Afin de minimiser la pollution de l'environnement, le programme de lutte contre la
bilharziose urinaire fera exclusivement usage de la niclosamide, qui est un molluscicide
ecologiquement acceptable. Au cas ou l'Organisation Mondiale de la Sante (OMS) approuverait
l'usage a grande echelle d'autres molluscicides, il pourra etre envisage d'autoriser leur utilisation
dans le cadre du programme national de lutte contre la bilharziose. Sous les conseils du SNGE,
dans le cadre de leurs projets propres, d'autres organismes publics pourront entreprendre la
construction de latrines, I'amenagement des berges des canaux d'irrigation, I'adduction d'eau qui
beneficieront en partie au programme de lutte contre la bilharziose. Les aspects de ces projets de
construction relatifs a la lutte contre la bilharziose devront etre pris en compte par chaque
organisme public concerne et ils devront faire l'objet d'une etroite coordination avec le SNGE et
le Secteur des Grandes Endemies de la region.
Schema Plan de la Lutte contre les Bilharzioses
Strat6gies                            Activit6s                                R6alisation
Depistage passif et prise         Formation des ICP: clinique et trt               Equipe de district
en charge des cas               Formation des ICP et ASC en                     Equipe de district
technique de labo
Consultations curatives au PS                        ICP
Approvisionnement en PZQ                      Equipe de district
RO sur outils diagnostic                Secteur des Gdes Endem.
Depistage actif des                     Recensement                             Equipe de district
enfants en age scolaire               Formation instituteurs                      Equipe de district
Diagnostic-trt (en RO)                   ICP et Equipe de district
IEC                              Enquete CAP                            Sect. Gd. End./EPS
Conception supports
Tester supports
Production et diffusion supports
Formation relais
Seance d'IEC                      ICP/Equip. dist./Sect. Gd. End.
Am6nagement des                     Identification des sites              Sect. Gd. End./SH/Popul./ONG
abords                   Formation des SH en malacologie                 SH/Bailleurs de fonds
des cours d'eau     Espaces non contaminants (lavoirs, bords cimentes ...)        Population
Desherbage des sites
Definition des normes de construction des canaux          SAED/CCS
Lutte anti-vectorielle          Identifier sites de transmission                Equip. de dist./SH
Formation agents a l'utilisation des molluscicdes  Equip. distr./SH/Sect. Gd.Endem.
Traitement des sites                        SH/Equip. distr.
Evaluation des resultats                      SH/Equip distr.
Etude et promotion pour       Seminaire sur les activites de latrinisation               SH
I'utilisation des latrines   RO: faisabilite latrinisation et acceptabilite             SH
IEC pour utilisation latrines                     ICP/SH
Recherche financement et execution                Sect. Gd. Endem.
Approvisionnement en                   Etude de faisabilite                     SH/Hydraulique/ONG
eau potable                    Recherche de financement
Evaluation              Adapter les supports 6pidem. de routine             Sect. Gd. Endem.
Surveillance epidemiolo.                            .
Surveillance malacolog.                    SH/Sect. Gd. Endem.
Dialogue intersectoriel    Contact avec les autres secteurs de developpement    Sect. Gdes Endem.
Comit: de lutte dans les districts concernbs
Suivi des activites du comite de lutte
ICP     Infirmier chef de poste
SH      Service d'hygiene
SAED    Societe d'amenagement et d'exploitation du Delta
CSS     Compagnie sucriere du Senegal



71
Annex 4
Page 12 of 17
Strategie
49.    Les objectifs specifiques de la strategie consistent A:
(a)    reduire la morbidite et la prevalence de la bilharziose urinaire dans les zones de
forte endemicite, c'est-a-dire ou la prevalence est superieure a 50% chez les enfants
de 7 A 14 ans;
(b)    contr6ler la prevalence dans les zones de moyenne endemicite, c'est-A-dire oui la
prevalence est comprise entre 20 et 50 % chez les enfants de 7 a 14 ans;
(c)    arreterer la transmission dans les zones de faible endemicite, c'est-a-dire ou la
prevalence est inferieure A 20% chez les enfants de 7 A 14 ans.
50.    Les zones d'endemicite des 8 regions (toutes les r6gions A l'exception des regions de
Dakar et de St Louis) participant au programme ont et classees en fonction des taux de
prevalence dans la population humaine (enquete nationale de 1995 et 96 sur les bilharzioses)
dans les divers villages. Les strategies adoptees pour chacun des trois niveaux d'endemicite
seront les suivantes.
51.    Zones de forte endemicite. L'objectif consiste A reduire la morbidite et la prevalence de
la bilharziose urinaire. Les methodes suivantes seront employees: i) chimiotherapie de masses
sans depistage par des diagnostics individuels, de toute la population y compris des enfants de 7
A 14 ans (dans les ecoles) en cas de bilharziose A S. haematobium; ii) mesures limitees
d'elimination des mollusques par l'application du molluscicide niclosamide, completees par des
mesures d'amenagement de l'environnement dans les cas appropries qui seront definis par les
Secteurs des Grandes Endemies.
52.    La chimiotherapie de masse se fera comme suit:
(a)    dans les trois premieres annees du programme, les individus ages de 6 A 60 ans (soit
approximativement 80 % de la population totale) recevront chaque anne un
traitement de praziquantel, le taux de couverture prevu etant d'environ 90 %.
(b)    dans les quatrieme et cinquifeme annees du programme, le traitement dependra des
resultats du sondage statistique systematique qui sera effectue A la fin de la troisieme
annee. Dans les endroits ou la prevalence sera encore egale ou superieure a 50 %,
tous les individus seront traites (sans depistage individuel) tandis que les zones oil la
prevalence aura ete ramenee A moins de 50 % seront considerees comme des zones
de moyenne endemicite.
53.    L'elimination des mollusques, responsables de la bilharziose urinaire, sera envisagee
apres que des recensements aient ete effectues chaque annee, au printemps ou A I'automne, dans
les zones out le potentiel de transmission est eleve. Des amenagements limites seront apportes a
1'environnement dans les cas appropries.
54.    Zones de moyenne endemicite. L'objectif consiste A lutter contre la prevalence. Les
methodes suivantes seront employees:



72
Annex 4
Page 13 of 17
(a)    Chimiotherapie de la population humaine. Toute la population entre 6 et 19 ans
sera traitee au praziquantel. La population des enfants de 7 a 14 ans sera examin6e
chaque annee.
(b)    Elimination des mollusques. Dans les premiere, troisieme et cinquieme annees du
programme, toutes les zones autour des villages ayant un potentiel de transmission
eleve et dont le traitement par molluscicide a ete juge approprie feront l'objet d'une
enquete par sondage. Celles ou il s'avere que des mollusques sont infectes (au
broyage) seront traitees par l'application d'un molluscicide. Dans les deuxieme,
troisieme et quatrieme annees du programme, les zones se caract6risant par un
potentiel de transmission eleve feront l'objet d'une enquete par sondage.
55.    Zones de faible endemicite. L'objectif consiste a arreter la transmission dans les cas
appropries. Les methodes suivantes seront employees:
(a)    La chimiotherapie de masse. L'ensemble des enfants de 5 a 19 ans sera examine
tous les deux ans (c'est-a-dire dans les premiere, troisieme et cinquieme ann6es).
Ceux pour lesquels la reaction sera positive recevront un traitement (soit
approximativement 3 % des enfants testes). En outre, des tests serologiques seront
administres aux groupes ci-apres, qui recevront un traitement en cas de besoin
(a) individus soupconnes ou depistes passivement dans les Postes de Sante, les
Centres de Sante et les h6pitaux; et (b) membres de la famille, voisins ou collegues
d'individus infectes.
(b)    Elimination des mollusques. Les zones infestees appropriees seront traitees a I'aide
d'un molluscicide, ou feront l'objet d'amenagements appropries et limites de
1'environnement.
VIII.  LE SYSTEME DE SURVEILLANCE DE LA BILHARZIOSE URINAIRE
56.    La surveillance des changements epiddmiologiques et de l'evolution de la bilharziose
urinaire dans les zones couvertes par le projet durant la mise en oeuvre de la strategie du projet
fournira les elements necessaires pour ajuster et ameliorer les stratdgies de lutte au niveau des
villages administratifs.
57.    Le travail de surveillance sera organise et coordonne par le SNGE et les Regions
Medicales. Le SNGE sera charge de la planification, des directives techniques et de l'analyse des
donnees. Les activites de surveillance sur le terrain seront executees par les equipes de district et
les equipes de la Region Medicale.
Indices et Techniques de Surveillance
58.    Pour la surveillance de la maladie chez les populations humaines, les indices suivants
feront l'objet d'un suivi: (a) la prevalence et l'intensite de l'infestation; (b) l'incidence des cas
aigus et graves de bilharziose; et (c) les donnees sur les infestations chez les populations
migrantes.



73
Annex 4
Page 14 of 17
59.    Les techniques de surveillance seront les suivantes. On se servira des hemastix pour
l'examen des urines humaines. On suivra les methodes standard du manuel de lutte contre la
bilharziose (A publier) du MSPAS pour les examens des mollusques et pour l'examen clinique
des populations humaines. Des donnees sur les cas aigus et avances de bilharziose seront
recueillies A l'aide du systeme standard de notification des cas de maladie.
Methodes de Surveillance
60.    A partir des resultats des enquetes de prevalence de 1995 et de 1996, trois niveaux
d'endemicite ont et definis pour la population de 7 A 14 ans: prevalence >50 %, prevalence
comprise entre 20 et 50 %, et prevalence <20 %. Ces trois niveaux servent de fondement A la
strategie de lutte. L'enquete fournit les donnees de reference pour la surveillance. Sur la base du
nombre total de villages situes dans les trois zones d'endemicite, l'on selectionnera chaque ann6e
pour y effectuer une surveillance 3 % des villages des zones de forte endemicite, I % de ceux
des zones de moyenne endemicite et I % de ceux des zones de faible endemicite.
61.    Dans les zones de forte et moyenne endemicite, I'on examinera, dans des villages
s6lectionnes, les urines de 500 individus ages de 3 A 60 ans en procedant A un sondage par
grappes. (Les donnees sur les enfants de 3 a 5 ans seront analysees separement dans le cadre de
la surveillance de la transmission-voir plus loin.)
62.    Dans les zones de faible endemicite, 1'examen portera sur les enfants de 7 A 14 ans et les
classes scolaires serviront A constituer les grappes.
63.    Selon la population des villages selectionnes, au moins 33 % de la population migrante
seront contr6les.
Surveillance des Mollusques
64.    Les densites de mollusques et leurs taux d'infestation seront evalues comme suit dans les
differentes zones d'endemicite:
(a)   Zones de forte endemicite. Dans chacun des villages faisant l'objet d'une
surveillance, on examinera un minimum de 500 m2 et pas moins de
5 000 mollusques.
(b)   Zones de moyenne endemicite. Dans les sites a fort potentiel de transmission aux
alentours des villages couverts par les operations de surveillance, I'on examinera un
minimum de 300 m2 et de 5 000 mollusques.
(c)   Zones de faible endemicite. Les operations ne seront menees qu'autour des habitats
de gasteropodes connus ou potentiels; l'on examinera un minimum de 200 m2. Si la
densite de mollusques est faible et que l'on collecte moins de 5 000 individus, ceux-
ci seront tous examines.
1/ Des etudes sur la morbidite au niveau communautaire seront egalement effectuees dans le cadre des recherches operationnelles.



74
Annex 4
Page 15 of 17
(d)   Enfants scolarises. Au niveau des villages administratifs des les zones de forte et
moyenne endemicite, des 6chantillons aleatoires d'urines d'enfants de 10 a 12 ans
seront preleves dans les troisieme et cinquieme annees du programme et examines.
(Pour calculer la prevalence de la maladie dans l'ensemble de la population, on
utilisera un facteur de multiplication approprie etabli a partir des resultats de
l'enquete nationale de 1989.) En depit de la petite taille de l'echantillon, cette
approche presente plusieurs avantages: (i) ce groupe d'age se caracterisant par une
forte prevalence, les etudes parasitologiques peuvent donner des resultats probants;
(ii) les enfants cooperent facilement; (iii) les resultats refletent mieux I'end6micit6
d'un village que les donnees obtenues pour des adultes mobiles; (iv) les resultats
obtenus permettront d'operer un recoupement avec les resultats de la strategie de
surveillance aux niveaux national et provincial.
Surveillance de la Transmission
65.    Les donnees resultant des activites ci-dessus de surveillance de la maladie indiqueront
1'effet direct de la chimiotherapie (de masse ou selective) sur la prevalence et le degre
d'infestation de la population humaine, qui influent indirectement sur la morbidite. L'effet
secondaire de la chimiotherapie, a savoir la reduction de la transmission, sera evalue chez le
groupe d'age des enfants de 3 a 5 ans non traites. Dans la premiere annee du programme, ce
groupe aura une faible prevalence et un faible degre d'infestation; a mesure que la chimiotherapie
fera sentir ses effets au niveau de la transmission, ces parametres de l'infestation devraient
diminuer. Si la chimioth6rapie permet d'arreter la transmission dans une zone, la prevalence
chez les enfants de 3 a 5 ans sera nulle dans la cinquieme annee du programme.
IX.   RECHERCHE OPERATIONNELLE
66.    Si une strategie de base a ete definie pour la lutte contre la bilharziose dans les zones de
forte, moyenne et faible endemicite, des problemes surgiront inevitablement dans le cours de la
mise en oeuvre et des recherches seront donc necessaires pour formuler les ajustements et
ameliorations a apporter aux techniques de lutte dans les diverses situations epidemiologiques.
67.    Les recherches menees durant la mise en oeuvre du projet porteront sur les principaux
themes prioritaires suivants:
(a)    Test(s) de diagnostic le(s) plus adequat(s) pour detecter une resurgence de la
transmission lorsque la prevalence est apparemment nulle. Si le test de precipitation
peri-ovulaire, le test d'hemaglutination indirecte et le test ELISA ont une sensibilite
specifique similaire pour les infestations etablies (chroniques), leur utilisation en cas
d'infestation a un stade precoce, legres et eventuellement limitee a un seul sexe a
besoin d'etre clarifie.
(b)    Si les enfants sont generalement consideres comme un groupe ideal pour les
operations de surveillance, une fois que l'on est parvenu a un controle effectif dans
les zones ou l'infestation peut resulter d'un risque professionnel ou domestique, il
peutt tre plus approprie de suivre d'autres groupes d'age (de 25 a 40 ans). Le groupe
optimal peut varier en fonction de la situation epidemiologique et des conditions
socioeconomiques. De meme, il convient de choisir des techniques de diagnostic et



75
Annex 4
Page 16 of 17
des groupes d'age indicateurs appropries dans les autres zones d'endemicite au fur et
A mesure que la prevalence diminue.
(c)    L'application d'un molluscicide complete la chimiotherapie. La niclosamide est
couteuse, des recherches devront etre menees pour s'assurer que l'on utilise la
methode d'application la plus rentable. II convient de comparer l'efficacite des
pulverisateurs mecaniques et manuels pour diffuser le produit A la dose desiree, et
d'etudier les differents types de buse.
(d)    Les formulations de niclosamide a liberation lente et leur durabilite sur la boue
sechee devront etre evaluees. II sera necessaire egalement d'evaluer les nouveaux
molluscicides prometteurs et d'en tester la toxicite.
(e)    La sensibilite actuelle des bulins A la niclosamide doit servir de reference au cas ou
des signes de resistance apparaitraient A l'avenir. Au besoin, des etudes seront
consacrees A la dynamique des populations de mollusques et l'on continuera de
mettre en oeuvre des methodes pour prevenir leur propagation.
(f)    Apres une formation approfondie aux nouvelles methodes de lutte standardisees, il
faudra effectuer des etudes au niveau communautaire afin d'etablir la << norme )>
d'infestation pour les differents groupes d'age, pour la population masculine et pour
la population feminine dans les differentes zones epidemiologiques.
(g)    Des etudes sur la morbidite au niveau communautaire devront etre effectuees dans
les differentes zones epidemiologiques afin de clarifier la relation entre la prevalence
(et le degre) de l'infestation et les sympt6mes et signes de la maladie.
68.    Des recherches operationnelles devront egalement etre consacrees A des themes lies
specifiquement a la mise en oeuvre du projet. Les themes principaux seront les suivants:
(a)    Suivi des elements des trois composantes principales de la strategie de
lutte: chimiotherapie, elimination des mollusques et education sanitaire. Ce suivi
est indispensable pour assurer que chaque composante contribue au maximum au
projet.
(b)    Chimiotherapie. Celle-ci constitue le fondement de toute la strategie de controle de
la morbidite. Le but est d'administrer le traitement approprie (chimiotherapie de
masse ou selective) au plus grand nombre possible d'individus. Les donnees
suivantes devront donc etre enregistrees au niveau des villages : (i) identite des
individus refusant de cooperer (refusant de faire examiner leurs urines ou d'etre
traitds) et des individus non trait6s (pour une raison justifi6e) ; (ii) effet du
programme de chimiotherapie par groupe d'age et par sexe (si possible egalement
par categorie professionnelle) - ces donnees seront utilisees pour cibler les actions
d'education sanitaire sur les individus ou groupes appropries; (iii) nombre de
villages devant etre examines ou traites sur une periode donnee, et couverture
effective.
(c)    Elimination des mollusques. La dimension des habitats de mollusques devant faire
l'objet d'enquetes par sondage et d'applications de molluscicide dans les differentes



76
Annex 4
Page 17of17
zones d'endemicite est indiquee dans la strategie de lutte. A partir des donnees
enregistrees sur le terrain, il sera important d'etudier la couverture effective des
operations et, au cas ou celle-ci serait insuffisante, d'en determiner les raisons.
(d)    Education sanitaire. Les objectifs a court terme de la composante d'education
sanitaire varieront selon les zones d'endemicite. Des objectifs seront definis au
debut de chaque annee et des dossiers seront constitues sur toutes les activites. Au
cas oii les objectifs ne seraient pas atteints, il conviendra d'en determiner les raisons
et de prendre des mesures pour redresser la situation.
(e)    Suivi permanent. Si le programme de surveillance du projet de lutte doit etre
organise et coordonne par le SNGE et les Secteurs des Grandes Endemies, les
equipes d'enqueteurs sur le terrain devraient examiner les dossiers des examens
d'urines dans le cas de la bilharziose a S. haematobium afin de detecter rapidement
les zones localisees ou la lutte ne serait pas aussi efficace que prevu. II est possible
qu'il ne soit pas possible de detecter ces zones lorsque l'on combine les resultats de
plusieurs villages; il importe donc d'examiner les resultats de petites unit6s locales
de population. II faudra proceder a une analyse des resultats par sexe, par groupe
d1'ge et, le cas echeant, par emploi. Les equipes d'enqueteurs devront etre
encouragees A analyser eux-memes la prevalence et le degre d'infestation et a suivre
l'6volution annuelle de la situation.
(f)    Contr6le de qualite. Surtout dans les zones de moyenne endemicite oui les urines
doivent etre examinees avant l'administration d'un traitement (chimiotherapie
selective), le contr6le de qualite des examens microscopiques revet un caractere
essentiel. Le travail des techniciens doit etre v6rifie.



77
Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE LES MALADIES ENDEMIQUES
L'ONCHOCERCOSE
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Le Senegal fait partie de l'extension Ouest du programme de lute contre l'onchocercose
en Afrique de l'Ouest (OCP) depuis 1986. Les enquetes effectuees avant le demarrage des
activites du programme ont permis de delimiter la partie Senegalaise de l'extension Ouest du
programme. Au total sept (7) arrondissements sont concernes dont six (6) dans la region de
Tambacounda et un (1) dans la region de Kolda. Cette partie orientale du Senegal oui sevit
l'endemie onchocerquienne, couvre une superficie d'environ 40,000 km2. La population totale
exposee etait estimee au debut du programme A 198,000 habitants, repartie dans les vallees de la
Faleme et de la Gambie. La population vivant en zone hyperendemique est estimee A 23,000
habitants, soit 11,61% de la population exposee.
II.    HISTORIQUE Du PROGRAMME OCP Au SENEGAL
2.    Au Senegal, seule la morbidite liee A la maladie onchocerquienne est contr6lee; il n'y a
pas de contr6le de la transmission de la maladie comme c'est le cas dans les autres zones du
programme. Le contr6le de la morbidite est base sur la distribution annuelle de l'ivermectine.
En l'absence d'un impact sur la transmission (dans l'etat de nos connaissances actuelles), cette
distribution devrait donc se poursuivre sur au moins les vingt (20) prochaines annees. Etant
donnee la duree prevue de ce traitement, la perennite et la rentabilite de la distribution sont les
objectifs principaux de la strategie de distribution adoptee.
3.    Le processus de devolution, dejA entame au Senegal, a pour objectif de transferer la
responsabilite de cette distribution aux nationaux. La recherche d'une perennite et d'une
rationalisation des ressources humaines, materielles et financieres a conduit le programme OCP
A conseiller une "distribution communautaire" par les agents de sante communautaires, au lieu
d'une "distribution A grande echelle" par une equipe nationale mobile. L'experience de
distribution communautaire en cours dans 4 districts au Senegal souleve une question qui n'a pas
e  encore resolue, la prime de motivation des agents de sante communautaire.
4.    La distribution A grande echelle de l'ivermectine commencee par l'OCP depuis 1988
dans la zone hyperendemique du departement de Kedougou couvre environ 157 villages du
district de Kedougou repartis entre les bassins fluviaux de la Faleme (37 villages) et de la
Gambie (120 villages). Elle est assuree par l'equipe nationale (coordinateur national, assistant
administratif, operateur radio, 8 techniciens, 3 chauffeurs et un gardien - personnel appartenant
au Secteur des Grandes Endemies de Tambacounda A l'exception du Coordinateur national)
basee A Tambacounda avec le soutien logistique (voitures, carburant) et financier (sur-salaires du
coordinateur, de I'assistant administratif et de l'operateur radio, salaires de trois chauffeurs et
d'un gardien, perdiems pendant les campagnes de distribution) de l'OCP.



78
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
5.     En 1994, grace a l'appui financier (carburant et maintenance des vehicules et motos) de
l'OMS dans le cadre du programme AFROPOC et au soutien financier (perdiems pour
supervision au medecins-chefs des region de Kolda et Tambacounda, pour les deux superviseurs
des deux regions, pour le chef epidemiologie/entomologie de l'equipe nationale base A au
Secteur des Grandes Endemies de Tambacounda, pour les 4 medecins-chefs des 4 districts et
pour leur superviseurs, primes pour les infirmiers-chefs de postes des 4 districts concernes,
primes pour les chauffeurs) de l'OPC, le traitement communautaire A l'ivermectine a demarre
dans certains arrondissements des districts de Kedougou, Goudiry, Tambacounda et Velingara.
La population exposee dans la zone ou a demarre le traitement communautaire est estimee en
1995 A 78,281 habitants repartis dans 299 villages et la commune de Kedougou. La distribution
communautaire de l'ivermectine est assuree par les agents de sante communautaire ou
distributeurs, sous la supervision et le contr6le des infirmiers chefs de poste. Au cours de
l'annee 1995, le traitement communautaire a pu couvrir 58,881 habitants.
6.     En 1996, dans le cadre de la devolution du programme de lutte contre l'onchocercose, il
etait prevu que les cent cinquante sept (157) villages des bassins fluviaux de la Faleme et de la
Gambie, qui sont encore sous traitement a grande echelle, seraient couverts par le traitement
communautaire. En fait, 14 villages du bassin de la Faleme feront de la distribution
communautaire; les autres villages manquant d'agents de sante communautaire alphabetises.
Dans le bassin de la Gambie, la campagne de novembre 96 permettra d'identifier et de former les
agents de sante communautaire alphabetises qui seront responsables de la distribution
communautaire.
7.     Calendrier annuel des activites. La distribution a grande echelle se fait lors de deux
campagnes, une en avril qui dure 25 jours et qui couvre les deux bassins de la Faleme et de la
Gambie, et une en novembre qui dure 15 jours et qui n'interesse que le bassin de la Gambie.
Dans le bassin de la Gambie la distribution d'ivernectine est faite deux fois par an en raison
d'une forte endemicite. Le dossier de demande d'ivermectine au producteur Merck est assur6e
par l'OCP. Les m6dicaments sont recuperes par l'assistant administratif du Secteur des Grandes
Endemies de Tambacounda A Bamako au Mali.
III.   PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE L'ONCHOCERCOSE
8.     Objectifs general et specifiques. L'objectif general est d'eliminer le risque de cecite
due A l'onchocercose dans la zone du programme pendant les 20 A venir. Les objectifs
specifiques sont les suivants: (i) etendre sur l'ensemble de la zone la distribution de
l'ivermectine par les agents de sante communautaires; (ii) traiter 90% de la population eligible
dans les bassins de la Faleme et de la Gambie ; et (iii) mettre en place un systeme de surveillance
epidemiologique active afin de mesurer tous les 3 ans, le taux d'incidence de l'onchocercose
dans les 24 villages sentinelles dans les vallees de la Faleme et de la Gambie (8 villages par an).
9.     La distribution de l'ivermectine. L'ivermectine est offerte gratuitement par le
fabricant Merck Sharp & Dome sur presentation d'un dossier technique. L'elaboration de ce
dossier releve de la responsabilite du SNGE. La reception de l'ivermectine et son acheminement
jusqu'aux Secteurs des Grandes Endemies de Tambacounda et de Kolda - loges dans les Regions
M6dicales - sont sous la responsabilite du SNGE (possibilite d'acheminement par la PNA
moyennant finances). Les equipes de district vont chercher a la a la Pharmacie Regionale ou a Ia
Region Medicale (RM) les quantites d'ivermectine commandees. Les infirmiers chefs de poste
vont chercher l'ivermectine au niveau du district et distribuent aux agents de sante



79
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
communautaire les quantit6s necessaires A la distribution dans chaque village. Les agents de
sante communautaire distribuent l'ivermectine une fois par an A la population eligible du village.
10.    La "chaine" du monitoring de cette distribution est la suivante: (i) les agents de sante
communautaire font un rapport apres chaque distribution d'ivermectine ; (ii) les rapports sont
regroupes par l'infirmier chef de poste qui les transmet A l'equipe medicale du district ; (iii) au
niveau du district, les informations sont entrees dans le SIG informatise ; (iv) 1'equipe medicale
du district et l'equipe du Secteur des Grandes Endemies analysent les donnees et les indicateurs;
et (v) le niveau central du SNGE est tenu informe, en temps reel, des activites et des indicateurs
de suivi par l'intermediaire du reseau informatique du SIG.
11.    Surveillance epidemiologique active. La surveillance epidemiologique des vingt
quatre (24) villages sentinelles tous les 3 ans, ce qui veut dire la surveillance de 8 villages par an,
relevera de la responsabilite du Secteur des Grandes Endemies de la RM de Tambacounda. Le
temps consacre A cette tache par le Secteur ne devrait pas exceder 4 semaines. Les resultats sont
entres dans le SIG informatise soit au niveau du district le plus proche soit au niveau de la RM.
Les personnels necessaires A cette surveillance epidemiologique active devrait comporter un
m6decin-6pid6miologiste forme A l'entree informatique de donnees qui sera le m6decin du
Secteur des Grandes Endemies, trois techniciens en parasitologie charges des prelevements et
des analyses, et un chauffeur. Cette equipe appartient au Secteur des Grandes Endemies. Les
ressources materielles et logistiques sont un vehicule 404, et le matdriel technique de
prelevement.
12.    Surveillance passive. Elle est faites par les PS et les CS qui reportent leurs resultats
dans le systeme d'information SIG.
13.    L'equipe de district fait une premiere analyse des resultats traites par le SIG soit au
niveau de la surveillance epidemiologique passive, soit au niveau de la surveillance
epidemiologique active. Les possibles attitudes de reponse sont discutees avec le Secteur et le
niveau central si besoin.
14.    Responsabilites du niveau central du SNGE. Dans le cadre du programme de lutte
contre l'onchocercose, elles sont: (i) le suivi des activites et le dialogue avec les differents
intervenants par l'intermediaire du SIG informatise ; (ii) la conception et l'organisation des
campagnes d'IEC ; (iii) la conception et l'organisation des modules de "formation continue"
dans le souci extr8me d'integration avec les "formations continues" concernant les autres
programmes de lutte ; (iv) la conception et l'organisation des enquetes jugees necessaires A la
poursuite du programme ; et (v) les relations avec les partenaires internationaux.
15.    Les ressources humaines. Les ressources humaines des Secteurs des Grandes
Endemies, ainsi que les besoins en formation, sont etudiees globalement, et non pas programme
par programme, dans l'annexe sur le renforcement institutionnel du SNGE.



80
Annex 6
Page I of 10
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    For several years, MSPAS has had the objective of developing a management information
system. The user-friendliness and affordability of new technologies would make it possible to install a
real-time computerized information system linking the medical districts and regions and MSPAS's
central units.
II.    BACKGROUND
2.    Historical Background. Changes in the health information system were undertaken in 1986,
and have focused on the management of health services, the title used being Systeme d'information ai des
fins de gestion (SIG: "Management Information System). This system includes information relating to
the following areas: (i) demographics; (ii) financial management; (iii) implementation of health services
and programs; (iv) morbidity; (v) mortality. From 1986 to 1993, efforts were concentrated on the
standardization of the various media (i.e. modules, records, and reports) and health indicators, and on
testing the system in 10 districts. In 1994 and 1995, the system was installed in the remaining districts,
with support from UNICEF, USAID, and the Italian Cooperation Agency.
3.    At the beginning of 1994, while the system was being established in all districts, MSPAS
launched a computerization process, to include: (i) use of the GESIB software program for processing
monitoring data relating to Bamako Initiative activities, with technical support from UNICEF; (ii) use of
the SANTE software program for processing some of the information system data relating to health posts
and health centers, with technical support from the Italian Cooperation Agency; (iii) the digital
cartographic representation of certain indicators for the establishment of a geographic information
system (GIS) in the river region, with technical support from WHO; (iv) indicators for monitoring
implementation of the family planning policy, with technical support from USAID; (v) preparation of a
hospital information system, with technical support from the French Cooperation Agency. In addition,
MSPAS has developed a maintenance information system.
4.    Evaluation of the Existing Information Systems. The various health information systems are
based on different media (i.e. paper, particular software programs, or computer packages). They do not
all have the same purposes, but the functionalities of the various software programs, and the data they are
designed to manage, often contain redundancies. These information systems are not truly interactive,
because they were not designed for a network environment that provides for data exchange,
consolidation, and distribution functions. A detailed evaluation of each of the software programs can be
found in the Implementation Manual for the project.
5.    Evaluation of Available Hardware. Because of the diversity of projects and donors involved in
the Senegalese health sector, the hardware now available in the regions and districts is very mixed, and



81
Annex 6
Page 2 of 10
this is reflected in the variety of makes, operating systems, and configurations. There are five different
makes (Dell, Compaq, Apple, NEC, and Olivetti). two operating systems (Mac and DOS), and many
different configurations. The configurations of most of the PCs would allow them to be networked, but
the mixture of makes and operating systems present problems not only of communications and
compatibility, but also of maintenance.
6.    Evaluation of the Telecommunications Infrastructure. Societe Nationale des
Tel6communications du Senegal provides the following three types of service that would support
implementation of a computer network covering the medical districts and regions and MSPAS: the
SENPAC network, dedicated data transmission lines (lignes specialisees de transmission des donn&es -
LSTD), and the switched telephone network (Reseau Telephonique Commute - RTC).
III.   DESCRIPTION OF THE REQUIRED INFORMATION SYSTEM
Technical Architecture Selected
7.    Figure 1 shows the MSPAS architecture. For a telecommunications network, the RTC seems the
best choice from a technical and (more particularly) economic viewpoint. The ability to establish a link
between any two computers at any given time, with pricing based on connect time, offers major
advantages for the project. The only constraints arise from the quality of telephone lines in some rural
areas; nevertheless, the application of appropriate hardware and software solutions should serve to make
communications and data transfer more reliable until a totally digital national telecommunications
network can be established.
Organization of Data Exchange
8.    The proposed solution would achieve the following objectives: (a) interconnectability of
computers in the medical districts and regions and MSPAS, as required; (b) the possibility of automatic
remote file collection (such files consisting of health data from the various information systems, such as
SIG, GESIB, etc.), transmission of files to remote terminals (i.e. feedback data from the Ministry or
the region, versions of software programs, parameter tables, etc.), remote maintenance of network
terminals (i.e. the provision of remote technical assistance), and electronic messaging among the
various participants in the health information system; (c) a system that is technically robust and cost-
effective in terms of operating costs.
Remote Collection
9.    The purpose of remote collection is the automatic collection of the data generated by the health
information system(s) installed in district computers, in order to consolidate them at regional level and
then at national level. The computers in the districts and medical regions and in the Ministry are left
switched on from 8.00 PM to 8.00 AM (a period when reduced rates are charged for telephone use).
10.   Stage 1: Districts. Every evening from 8.00 PM, the "district-controlled program" (programme
de "pilotage District") installed in district computers checks whether there are any data files to be
transmitted to regional level. If there are in fact any such files, the control prograrn compresses them,
places them in an "envelope" file, calls the regional computer, and transmits the envelope to it. This
operation takes place (every evening, if necessary) between 8.00 PM and 9.00 PM.



82
Annex 6
Page 3 of 10
11.    Stage 2: Regions. Every evening from 8.00 PM, the "region-controlled program" (programme
de "pilotage Region") installed in regional computers goes on standby to receive "envelope" files from
the districts. From 9.00 PM, the region-controlled program checks whether such files have been
received. If there are any, it decompresses them and automatically activates the information system(s) so
that the data from the districts will be processed and consolidated. This operation takes place (every
evening, if necessary) between 9.00 PM and 10.00 PM.
12.    From 10.00 PM, the region-controlled program checks whether there are any data files to be
transmitted to national level. If there are in fact any such files, the control program compresses them,
places them in an "envelope" file, calls the ministry computer, and transmits the envelope to it. This
operation takes place (every evening, if necessary) between 10.00 PM and 1 1.00 PM.
13.    Stage 3: The Ministry. At Ministry level, remote data collection is automatic. Before logging
out in the evening, the operator will perform the same procedure as is applied at regional and district
level, resetting the server ("PC Anywhere") by using the Alt+Ctrl+Del keys. The remote data collection
program will be launched automatically according to the schedules imposed by the "Ministry-controlled
program (programme "Pilote Ministere"). Every evening from 10.00 PM, the "Ministry-controlled
program" installed in the ministry computer goes on standby to receive "envelope" files from the
regions. From 11.00 PM, the Ministry-controlled program checks whether such files have been received.
If there are any, it decompresses them and automatically activates the information system(s) so that the
data from the regions will be processed and consolidated. This operation takes place (every night, if
necessary) between 11.00 PM and midnight. On the following morning, the administrator will find on
the LAN printer the results of the previous night's data collection, in the form of a synoptic table
(tableau de bord). The Ministry's administrator will begin the morning work session by rebooting the
PC Anywhere server, using the Alt+Ctrl+Del keys. This displays the access control screen. The
administrator then enters the appropriate user ID and password and can thus log on normally and use the
standard applications. After analyzing the synoptic table, the administrator can perform any necessary
reruns of connections to the regions or districts, so as to ensure that the health data can be properly
entered into the information system(s).
Remote Distribution
14.    The purpose of this is the automatic distribution of files (i.e. feedback resulting from the
consolidation of data from the health information system(s), versions of software, parameter tables,
messages, etc.) from national level to the regions, and then to the districts. The district, regional, and
ministry computers are left switched on overnight from 8.00 PM to 8.00 AM.
15.    Stage 1: The Ministry. At Ministry level, remote data distribution is automatic, and is launched
according to the schedules imposed by the Ministry-controlled program. Every night, beginning at
midnight, the Ministry-controlled program installed on the ministry computer checks whether there are
any data files to be transmitted to regional level. If there are in fact any such files, the control program
compresses them, places them in an "envelope" file, calls the regional computer, and transmits the
envelope to it. This operation takes place (every night, if necessary) between midnight and 1.00 AM.
The following morning, the administrator will find on the LAN printer the results of the previous night's
data distribution, in the form of a synoptic table (tableau de bord). After analyzing the synoptic table, the
administrator can perform any necessary reruns of connections to the regions and districts, so as to reach
a diagnosis with them regarding any incidents that may have affected distribution (e.g. the switching-off
of a computer, any incomplete transfers, etc.), and adopt the necessary corrective measures.



83
Annex 6
Page 4 of 10
16.    Stage 2: Regions. Every night, from midnight, the "region-controlled program" installed on
regional computers goes on standby to receive "envelope" files from the Ministry. From 1.00 AM, the
region-controlled program checks whether any such files have been received. If there are any, it
decompresses them and automatically activates the information system(s) so that it/they can perform the
feedback processing of the data from the Ministry. This operation takes place (every night, if necessary)
between 1.00 AM and 2.00 AM.
17.    From 2.00 AM, the region-controlled program checks whether there are any data files to be
transmitted to the districts. If there are in fact any such files, the control program compresses them,
places them in an "envelope" file, calls the district computers, and transmits the envelope to them. This
operation takes place (every night, if necessary) between 2.00 AM and 3.00 AM.
18.    Stage 3: Districts. Every night from 10.00 PM, the "district-controlled program" installed on
district computers goes on standby to receive "envelope" files from the regions. From 3.00 AM, the
district-controlled program checks whether such files have been received from the regions. If there are
any, it decompresses them and automatically activates the information system(s) so that it/they can
perform the feedback processing of the data from the regions. This operation takes place (every night, if
necessary) between 3.00 AM and 4.00 AM.
Remote Maintenance
19.    The purpose of remote maintenance is to enable the system administrator in the Ministry to
establish a remote link with any one of the regional or district computers in order to carry out
administrative operations (e.g. remote application of software, parameterization, diagnosis of software
problems, etc.), together with file transfers (whether Ministry-to-remote terminal or remote terminal-to-
Ministry).
20.    Principle. The administrator at the Ministry receives a telephone call from a district or region
requesting help with a software program. The administrator uses the Ministry-control program to
establish a connection with the district or regional computer. Once it is established, he can perform all
necessary administrative operations or file transfers, just as if he were on site. On screen is the same
display as at the remote terminal, and it responds directly to keystrokes and mouse-clicks. Remote
maintenance operations are also completely "transparent" from the viewpoint of the remote user.
Electronic Messaging
21.    The purpose is to enable the various operators in the health information system to exchange
messages, memos, and files with their colleagues, with or without delivery receipts.
22.    Principle. The Director of SNGE (the National Endemic Disease Service) wants a specific piece
of information (for example, the number of meningitis cases recorded over the past month in the various
health posts). He writes a message using the EM system's text processor, and can then use a single
command to send it to all districts, with copies to the regions. The following morning, as soon as the
district computers are logged on, the doctors can read the SNGE message that has arrived at the
electronic in-box. After collecting the data requested, the district doctors write messages using the EM
system's text processor and send them to SNGE. Electronic messaging will also enable the various
members of the health staff to communicate with their colleagues outside the system, because the
messaging server will be connected to external EM systems (through the Internet, etc.).



84
Annex 6
Page 5 of 10
Data Retrieval
23.    The purpose is to enable MSPAS's various agencies (i.e. the Office of the Minister, DAGE,
DAS, DHSP, etc.), and possibly other parties involved in the health sector, to consult the data in the
information system.
24.    Principle. The various directorates can connect to the MSPAS central network and use the
existing information system(s) solely in read-only mode.
Security
25.    Automatic encryption will be used to ensure the security of file transfers among districts,
regions, and the Ministry. The electronic messaging system will be name-linked and entirely
confidential. As regards the feedback and distribution of aggregated and consolidated data at regional
level, and subsequently at national level, the Ministry will define the level of confidentiality to apply to
indicators during the preparation of the specifications (cahier des charges) for the health application. All
PCs on the network (whether in districts or regions, or at the Ministry) will be equipped with an access
control system requiring the input of a user ID and password before access is granted to the various
applications (e.g. the health application, Word, Excel, electronic messaging, etc.).
26.    All PCs on the network will be equipped with a virus detection and elimination system. Use of
the diskette drive will be controlled by the access system, and PC users will not be able to install new
programs unless they have administrators' rights. All applications will be installed remotely, and
installation will be under the control of the administrators of the central network at MSPAS.
27.   In the case of power outages, PCs will be powered by a UPS. Prolonged outages, particularly at
night, will make it impossible for the remote data collection and distribution systems to operate. When
power is restored, the backlog of files in the districts and regions will be automatically collected and
distributed, in chronological order.
Organizational and Human Resource Aspects
28.   Installation of a network interconnecting all computers in the medical districts and regions and
the Ministry of Health will impose considerable changes on the procedures currently employed at sites
possessing computers.
At District Level
29.    Logging On. In the morning, operators will log on by rebooting their computer by means of the
Alt+Ctrl+Del keys, as a result of which the access control screen will be displayed. Operators will then
input their user IDs and passwords, after which they will be able to work in the normal way and use the
standard applications (the health information system, the WORD text-processing system, the EXCEL
spreadsheet, etc.). Before beginning their work, they will remove the backup cassettes from the
streamers and file them with the rest of the week's backups.
30.    Logging Off. In the evening, before logging off, operators will insert backup cassettes in their
streamers, and will then reset their computers by using the Alt+Ctrl+Del keys.



85
Annex 6
Page 6 of 10
31.    Results of Remote Data Collection and Distribution. The health information system(s)
available at work stations should be provided with features enabling operators to follow the progress of
data input, and of the various stages in the confirmation of the processes of data collection and
distribution at regional level.
At Regional Level
32.    Logging On. In the morning, operators will log on by rebooting their computers by means of the
Alt+Ctrl+Del keys, as a result of which the access control screen will be displayed. Operators will then
input their user IDs and passwords, after which they will be able to work in the normal way and use the
standard applications (the health information system, the WORD text-processing system, the EXCEL
spreadsheet, etc.). Before beginning their work, they will remove the backup cassettes from the
streamers and file them with the rest of the week's backups.
33.    Logging Off. In the evening, before logging off, operators will insert backup cassettes in their
streamers, and will then reset their computers by using the Alt+Ctrl+Del keys.
34.    Results of Remote Data Collection and Distribution. The health information system(s)
available at work stations should be provided with features enabling operators to follow the progress of
data input, and of the various stages in the confirmation of the processes of data collection and
distribution at national level.
Organization of Hardware Maintenance
35.    Hardware maintenance procedures are simplified, and the main objective of choosing to install
absolutely identical equipment throughout the territory is to facilitate hardware and software
maintenance. A standard configuration will be defined and installed at ministry level, then replicated
and tested on each of the computers intended for the regions and districts. Every day, an automatic
procedure will back up all data stored on the hard disks of all the regional and district computers. If a
software problem occurs, the administrator at the Ministry will establish a remote maintenance link in
order to diagnose and solve it. If a hardware problem arises, the regional or district operator will send to
the Ministry the whole of the configuration in question (i.e. the CPU, the monitor, the modem, and the
printer), together with the most recent backup cassette. The systems administrator at the Ministry will
recover all data from the cassette by using standby equipment, send all the data to the region or district,
and then make an initial diagnosis of the hardware problem, if necessary calling on the services of the
specialized company selected to maintain the whole of the Ministry's hardware.
Training
36.    Training will be provided for the following two groups:
(a)    district-level and regional operators, who will be assumed to have no background in
computers;
(b)    administrators at the Ministry; this function requires at least two persons, who will have
advanced training in computers and real experience of PCs.



86
Annex 6
Page 7 of 10
Title        Content                                                        No. of Days
PC 1         Description of the computer and peripherals; principles of installing  One day
and connecting hardware components; hardware maintenance.
PC 2         Logging on; user IDs; passwords; logging out; data backup; use of the   One day
Lotus CC:MAIL electronic messaging system.
SIG (health   Use of the health information system(s).
information
system)
Strengthening of the Statistics Division
37.   The project is under the authority of the Director of DHSP. In addition to the proposed computer
network (see above), it includes the rehabilitation of facilities, and the strengthening of human, physical,
and financial resources.
38.   Facilities. The establishment of a computer network bringing together the various existing
information systems calls for a strengthening of the Statistics Division. The latter is located in the DHSP
building, point E, which is not publicly owned and to which an eviction order has now been applied. The
Division is to be removed and relocated in the new DHSP headquarters (see Annex relating to the
institutional strengthening of SNGE).
39.   Human Resources. The staff of the Division should include the Chief, two computer engineers
to be responsible for network administration, and a person to be in charge of the health application and
the technical links between the Division and the Ministry's other units. The two engineers will play a
key role in establishing and monitoring the network. The risk is that, after a certain period, they may
leave these positions and go into the private sector. One possible solution would be to enter into a
contract under which a local private company would second two of its staff to the Division.
40.   Physical Resources. The necessary physical resources for the network have been identified in
the proposal for the technical network. However, attention should be given to the preparation of the
information-carrying medium to be used between the health posts and the districts where the data are
input into the system. These paper record forms should be designed to match the spreadsheets in the
system, thus facilitating data input. Over the coming months, consideration will be given to this issue,
and a draft form will be designed. It will be finalized once the planning of the information system is
complete.
41.   Training. Training in the use of the network is provided for in the contract to be signed with the
company installing the network. Training in the use of the health application will be provided by the
company developping the health software.
42.   Training in indicators for the health application is provided for under the project, except for
regional level, responsibility for which lies with the various donors (UNICEF, USAID, the World Bank,
etc.). The training could be modular, with an initial six-day module for the transfer of know-how,
followed -- after a period of work in the field -- by a second module, lasting four days, so that the
knowledge gained could be confirmed and consolidated.



87
Annex 6
Page 8 of 10
43.   Training Modules. The users of the information system will be taught the indicators for each of
its components by means of training modules, which the relevant ministry units, assisted by the partners,
would be responsible for preparing.
44.   Technical Assistance. USAID has offered MSPAS two years of technical assistance, which the
Ministry has accepted in principle.
Implementation Schedule for the Health Information System (Estimated)
Time         Health Application                        Network
Approval;
Month 1      Specifications (cahier des
charges)
Month 2      Supervision/development
Month 3      Supervision/development
Month 4      Supervision/development
Month 5      Supervision/development    (Hardware and software delivered to Dakar)
Month 6      Supervision/development    Supervision/training/test site deployment
Month 7      Supervision/training       Supervision/training/test site deployment
Month 8      Supervision/training       Supervision/training/test site deployment
Month 9      Supervision/training       Supervision/training/general installation
Month 10     Supervision/transfer of    Supervision/training/general installation
responsibility
Month 11     Supervision/assessment     Supervision/training/general installation
Month 12     Supervision/assessment     Supervision/assessment
Stages in the Health Application
45.   Preparation of Specifications (Cahier des Charges; Month 1). An information system design
method will have to be used in preparing the application specifications. Merise is a well-tried design
method that could be applied to preparing metamodels for the future health information system. Merise
uses two complementary axes for structuring information systems: data, and the processes applied to
them.
46.   The specifications will define the services and supplies to be provided, in line with the needs
identified. The document will be contractually binding and indicate general, operating, and technical



88
Annex 6
Page 9 of 10
speciflcations: (i) main objectives; (ii) constraints resulting from the physical environment; (iii)
identification of data and procedures.
The specifications will identify particular features of the Health Software (Logiciel Sante)
e-eating to the security of data exchanges among sites. They will also indicate links with the cartographic
application. This document, which will be binding upon the selected suppliers of these services, will
also define how the application is to be delivered. In order to check that the application is user-friendly
and that the MSPAS requirements have been met, arrangements should be made so that the
concatenation of the various steps in data processing can be checked in successive stages.
48.    Supervision (months 2 through 12). Supervision of the design, implementation, and
installation of the health application will be ongoing. It will consist of the permanent monitoring of the
area in question. The relevant supervisory reference points will be defined before each of the various
sta,s, is launched, the purpose being to enable progress in the project to be evaluated, and adjustments
made  for any slippage. The project architect will be in charge of supervision, and will be responsible for
coordination and consistency between the application and network components.
-4R-, . Development (months 2 through 6). Development consists of the following elements: (i)
deualied specifications; (ii) prototyping; (iii) programming of the application in accordance with the
contractual specifications; (iv) individual tests; (v) integration tests; (vi) delivery to users.
5!0,    Training (months 7 through 9). Both theoretical and practical training in the health software
ovb provided, for the following persons: (i) those using the application in the Statistics Division; (ii)
ninIistry users; (iii) users in the districts and regions.
Tl.ransfer of responsibility (month 10). MSPAS is the owner of the source programs for the
1ueafth application. The transfer of responsibility involves training the computer engineers attached to
.'ISPAS so that they can take over all maintenance operations and the development of the application.
;5tog;es in the Computer Network
52.   lHardware (month 5). This includes procurement of all the hardware necessary for the
or c-ation of the computer network in the regions and districts (PCs, modems, streamers, servers,
r'nters, and UPSs), together with the installation of the facilities and the computers (wiring) at MSPAS,
D1akar.
.33.    Software (month 5). This consists of the procurement of software, including antivirus,
comamunications, access control, monitoring, restarting, driver, and compression programs.
Jil.    Training (months 6 through 11). This is provided when the hardware is installed in the regions
and districts. It focuses on computer use and network interfacing during maintenance.
Deployment (months 6 through 11). This consists of the installation of all work stations and
se.vers in the various agencies, both at the pilot site and during the phase of general installation.
56.    Supplies (month 9). Supplies include the consumables necessary for operating the network for
one year, cartridges for laser printers, streamers, diskettes, and paper.



89
Annex 6
Page 10 of 10
57.    Supervision (months 6 through 12). Supervision of the information system consists of defining
telecommunications specifications for operating the software, and ensuring that the various programs
match and are coordinated so that the system as a whole will operate automatically.



90
Annex 7
Page I of 11
REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
PROJET DE LUTTE CONTRE LES MALADIES ENDEMIQUES
LE SERVICE NATIONAL DES GRANDES ENDEMIES
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    Le Service National des Grandes Endemies, qui depend de la Direction de l'Hygiene et
de la Sante Publique (DHSP) au Ministere de la Sante Publique et des Affaires Sociales
(MSPAS), s'est progressivement affaibli durant les vingt dernieres annees. A ce jour, le Service
n'est pas en mesure de faire face aux defis que posent, au Ministere de la Sante, la resurgence
des maladies endemiques telles que le paludisme ou les bilharzioses, le retour de grandes
epidemies telles que le cholera ou la meningite, et l'apparition des nouvelles epidemies virales.
2.     Au niveau central, le concept et l'esprit d'equipe du "Service National des Grandes
Endemies" ont disparu. Les locaux et le personnel sont disperses; les ressources materielles et
financieres proviennent principalement des bailleurs de fonds qui les allouent a des programmes
specifiques. Le Ministere de la Sante, en consequence, a peu de contr6le sur la planification et la
conduite des activites de surveillance et de contr6le des maladies endemiques et des maladies a
risque epidemique eleve. Au niveau peripherique, certains "Secteurs des Grandes Endemies" ont
disparu, d'autres secteurs sont extremement reduits en personnel et en moyens; quelques uns ont
une plethore de personnel inactif et demotive.
3.     Afin de repondre aux defis que posent la persistance des anciens fleaux et l'apparition de
nouvelles epidemies, le MSPAS engage une reforme du Service National des Grandes Endemies
dans le contexte du processus de decentralisation des services de sante. La Republique du
Senegal a demande l'appui financier de ses partenaires dans le developpement pour mener a bien
cette reforme. Ce document decrit dans un premier temps la situation du Service National des
Grandes End6mies, et dans un deuxieme temps un projet de renforcement des capacites de ce
Service.
II.    SITUATION ACTUELLE
Mission
4.     A cejour, le Service National des Grandes Endemies est un service de medecine
collective, curative et preventive, specialise dans la lutte contre les endemies majeures. Les
endemies se presentent sous trois aspects: (i) les maladies endemiques a transmission
relativement lente, presentes en permanence avec un taux de morbidit6 sensiblement constant,
telles que le paludisme, les bilharzioses, la dracunculose, la lpre, la tuberculose, la
trypanosomiase humaine africaine, I'onchocercose ; (ii) les maladies epidemiques a transmission
rapide et extensive, telles que le cholera, la meningite cer6bro-spinale, la fievre jaune et les
maladies ciblees par le PEV ; et (iii) les maladies entrainant une cecit6. L'objectif vise est



91
Annex 7
Page 2 of 11
d'eradiquer ou A defaut de reduire la morbidite et la mortalite dues aux endemies, grace au
depistage et au traitement des malades, A la protection des sujets sains, et A l'intervention rapide
au niveau des foyers en cas d'epidemie.
Structure Organisationnelle
5.     Conformement aux textes de reference, le Service National des Grandes Endemies
comprend un bureau de Gestion, la division des Programmes, et la division de Coordination.
(a)    Le bureau de Gestion prepare le budget, veille A son execution, suit le personnel et la
tenue de la comptabilite des deniers et des matieres.
(b)    La division des Programmes organise et coordonne la prevention. Elle
comprend: (i) le bureau de la Tuberculose ; (ii) le bureau des Maladies
Sexuellement Transmissibles ; (iii) le bureau des Maladies Bacteriennes et
Virales ; (iv) le bureau du PEV ; (v) le bureau de la Lepre ; et (vi) le service de Lutte
Antiparasitaire.
(c)    La division de la Coordination est chargee du suivi des Grandes Endemies.
6.     Administrativement, le Service National des Grandes Endemies comprend des services
centraux incluant la direction du Service et le SLAP, et des services peripheriques dans chaque
region, appeles "Secteurs des grandes Endemies".
Les Services Centraux
Locau.x
7.     La direction du SNGE est logee A la Direction de l'Hygiene et de la Sante Publique,
immeuble Vend6me - Point - BP 5899 Dakar Fann (221 - 24 36 28 / 24 74 34).
8.     Le SNGE est eparpilIl dans plusieurs bftiments eloignes les uns des autres dans Dakar.
Le local principal est situe au I er etage du batiment de la DHSP et occupe une surface
approximative de I 00m2. II regroupe un bureau pour le chef de service, un bureau pour le
programme d'eradication de la dracunculose, un bureau pour le programme elargi de vaccination
(PEV) et un bureau pour le secretariat. Les autres locaux alloues aux responsables des
programmes de lutte sont situes: (i) A l'h6pital Fann pour la tuberculose ; (ii) dans les bureaux
de la DAHW aux Almadies pour la 1epre; (iii) au 2eme etage de la DHSP, au Service National
de I'Hygiene, pour le paludisme et l'onchocercose.
9.     Le Service de la Lutte Antiparasitaire (SLAP) a 6te cr6e en 1952 A 1'epoque du
Programme d'Eradication du paludisme et s'appelait alors "Service de Lutte Antipaludique". II
est base A Thies dans les vastes locaux d'une ancienne caseme. Lors de ]'abandon du
programme d'eradication, le service a change de nom pour prendre celui d'aujourd'hui. Ses
activites sont essentiellement : (i) la recherche entomologique dans le cadre de la lutte contre le
paludisme en association avec l'ORSTOM et l'Universite ; (ii) des activites curatives a l'image
de ceux d'un CS sans activites chirurgicales ; et (iii) des activites de laboratoire medicale
centrees sur la recherche parasitaire.



92
Annex 7
Page 3 of 11
Ressources Materielles, Logistiques et Financieres.
10.   Le SNGE possede au niveau central 3 ordinateurs. Le Chef de Service a lajouissance
d'un vehicule de fonction. Un vehicule est mis a la disposition du Programme de Lutte contre la
Tuberculose. Le budget annuel de fonctionnement alloue A la direction du SNGE est de
3,000,000 FCFA (US$6,000). Ses frais d'eau, d'electricite, de telephone et de carburant (51/j)
sont pris en charge par la DAGE. Le SLAP possede une voiture Toyota 404 agee de plus de 1 0
ans, un ordinateur, une imprimante et une ligne telephonique.
Ressources Humaines
11.   Le personnel attache au SNGE comporte 5 medecins, le Chef du Service, les
superviseurs des programmes de lutte contre le paludisme, la tuberculose, la lepre et
l'onchcocercose, et 3 techniciens superieurs de sante responsables des programmes d'eradication
de la dracunculose et du PEV. Le Chef de Service a une secretaire, non fonctionnaire, qui est
remuneree par le Chef de Service.
12.   Le personnel du SLAP comprend: (i) un medecin-capitaine, chef de service ; (ii) une
6quipe de parasitologie avec deux infirmiers d'etat (2 IDE) et 4 agents sanitaires (4 AS), parmi
lesquels un part a la retraite en 1997 ; (iii) une equipe entomologique avec un agent de sante (1
AS) et deux techniciens du service d'hygiene (2 TSH) ; (iv) un agent de sante
ophtalmologique ; et (v) un agent de sante comptable et une secretaire.
Laboratoires Nationaux
13.   Le Service National des Grandes Endemies comprend un laboratoire national qui est
situe dans 1'enceinte de l'h6pital Fann. Ce laboratoire est le laboratoire de contr6le de qualite
pour les examens Uies A la tuberculose; il est aussi le laboratoire de reference pour deux CS
proches. II est dirige par une pharmacienne biologiste, non fonctionnaire, qui est remuneree par
le Programme National de Lutte contre la Tuberculose, finance par la Cooperation Norvegienne.
Elle est aidee par un technicien fonctionnaire dependant du SNGE et un technicien non
fonctionnaire qui est remunere par le Programme National de Lutte contre la Tuberculose.
Les Secteurs des Grandes Endemies
Les locaux
14.   Les Secteurs des Grandes Endemies dispose dans les Regions medicales, A 1'exception
de celles de Fatick et de Dakar, de larges batiments situes sur de vastes parcelles de terrain. A
Fatick et A Dakar, le Secteur des Grandes Endemies est heberge dans un bureau de la Region
Medicale. Les batiments des Secteurs des Grandes Endemies sont en general eloignes des
batiments des Regions Medicales, sauf dans les Regions de Tambacounda et de Kolda. Dans les
Regions de Louga, de Diourbel et de Kaolack, le Secteur des Grandes Endemies est situe dans la
meme ville que la R6gion Medicale mais reste excentre par rapport A celle-ci. Dans les Regions
de Thies, de Ziguinchor, et de St Louis, le Secteur des Grandes Endemies est localise dans une
autre ville que la Region Medicale, respectivement A Mbour a 72 km de Thies, a Bignona a 30
km de Ziguinchor et A Podor A 250km de St Louis. La Region Medicale de St Louis pourrait



93
Annex 7
Page 4 of 11
accueillir le Secteur des Grandes Endemies A condition de rehabiliter des batiments; par contre la
RM de Ziguinchor ne peut pas accueillir le Secteur des Grandes Endemies.
Ressources Matirielles, Logistiques et Financieres
15.    A 1'exception du Secteur des Grandes Endemies de la region de Fatick qui n'a aucune
ressource materielle ou logistique, les Secteurs des autres Regions ont en gendral: (i) 2 vehicules
en mauvais etat, sinon A l'etat d'epave ; (ii) I ou 2 motos (sauf A Tambacounda, A Ziguinchor et A
St Louis) ; (iii) 2 congelateurs ; et (iv) une ligne telephonique. Aucun Secteur ne dispose d'un
ordinateur, d'une photocopieuse ou d'un fax. Les ressources financieres sont detaillees dans le
tableau 1.
Ressources Humaines
16.    II faut se rappeler que le Secteur de Diourbel n'existe plus. Quatre secteurs des Grandes
Endemies ont un medecin-chef, St Louis, Ziguinchor, Thies, et Kaolack. L'ensemble des
secteurs a une personne en charge du PEV, A l'exception du secteur de Thies qui en a 3. Le
programme de lutte contre la lepre a dans chaque secteur un personnel qui varie: I dans les
secteurs de Fatick et de Kaolack, 2 A Diourbel et a Louga, 4 A St Louis, 5 A Tambacounda, 7 A
Thies, Ziguinchor et Kolda. Le programme de lutte contre l'onchocercose a 10 personnes dans
le secteur de Tambacounda. Quatre secteurs ont I personne en charge des examens de
laboratoire. Enfin, sont comptes dans le personnel des secteurs des Grandes Endemies les
personnels travaillant dans les services ophtalmologiques dans les h6pitaux regionaux. Voir le
tableau ci-contre.
RM     M6decin  Comptable           L-pre              PEV          Oncho        Ophtalmo      Labo    Sans Fonct
Fatick                              1 AS (03)         1 AH (99)
1 IDE (04)
Kaolack    1 (05)   1 AS (00)       1 AS (03)         1 IDE (06)                   2 AS (02)    1 TM (99)
Diourbel                        1 AH (15) et 1 Al (03)   L     _
1 IDE (06)
1 AS (96)        1 IDE (12)
Thies    1 (07)   1 IDE (14)     2 S/OH (18/03     2 S/OH (08/12)                 1 AS (03)    1 AS (08)  1 AA (17)
2 Al (98/99)
1 ASS (08)
1 AS (98)        1 AS (09)         1 TGS (11)   7 AS (97/98/99/    1 IDE (08)    1 TM (97)
00/01/12/14)
Tamba                           4 AH (07/11/13/14)                  2 AS (02)     2 AS (00/01)
1 TM (01)
Ziguinchor   1 (25)   1 AS (02)   4 AS (96/00/04/15)    1 AS (08)
3 Al (2.99/09)
Kolda             1 AS (98)   7 AS (2.97/99/01/03/13/14)   1 AS (04)              1 AS (00)    1 AS (02) _
St Louis    1 (13)                 2 AS (96/13)        1 AS (04)                  1 AS (invali)
1 TGS (13)
1 Al (96)
Louga             1 TM (00)         1 AS (08)                                                            1 IDE (10)
1   A l  (09)   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Dakar             1 IDE (12)    3 AS (invalid/96/?)     1 Al                                             1 IDE (09)
I TM
()annAe de depart A la retraite



94
Annex 7
Page 5 of 11
Ressourcesfinanckres des Secteurs
RM      Fonctmt       Eau      Electncite   Tel6phone  Carburant
Fatick        1,200,000    200,000     400,000    250,000    96,200
Kaoloack       3,000,000    300,000     500,000    200,000   962,000
Diourbel       3,030,000    200,000     400,000    300,000   480,000
Mbour         3,000,000    400,000     700,000    300,000   1,202,000
Tambacounda      2,280,000    200,000     400,000    250,000   891,000
Kolda         3,260,000    124,000     250,000    174,000  Gouverneur
Louga         1,200,000    200,000     400,000    250,000    96,200
Ziguinchor      3,280,000    100,000     200,000    200,000   982,000
St Louis       2,110,000    150,000     400,000    250,000   982,000
Dakar                                                ?         ?
Tab. 2: Ressources Humaines dans les Secteurs des Grandes Endemies,
(Mars 1996).
Les Activites du Service National des Grandes Endemies
Niveau Central
17.    Le niveau central du Service National des Grandes Endemies mene des activites de
supervision de quelques programmes de lutte dont la majorite des activit6s sont menees par les
personnels des services de soins de sante primaire.
Les Secteurs
18.    Concemant la lutte contre les endemies, seules les activites des programmes de lutte
contre la lepre, de lutte contre l'onchocercose et du PEV sont menees regulierement par les
personnels des Secteurs. Les Secteurs ont souvent de fait des activites de consultation generale
et de laboratoire d'un CS, sans les activites de chirurgie.
Le Service de Lutte Anti-Parasitaire (SLAP)
19.    Le SLAP mene plusieurs activites mais peu en liaison avec les bureaux du Service
National des Grandes Endemies. II mene d'une part des activites de recherche avec l'Universite
et l'ORSTOM et d'autre part des activites de consultation generales et des consultations de
laboratoire.
III.    PROBLEMES
20.    Le Service National des Grandes Endemies n'a pas ete inclu dans les reflexions
accompagnant le processus de decentralisation des services de sante. Sa mission et son
organisation n'ont pas ete redefinies dans le cadre de la nouvelle Politique de Sante. Le Service,
tel qu'il existe actuellement, est un vestige d'une Politique de Sante ancienne qui remonte a la
periode coloniale. Cette absence d'evolution a conduit le SNGE a une diminution de ses



95
Annex 7
Page 6 of 11
ressources humaines, materielles et financieres et A une perte de son identite.
Institutionnellement faible, le SNGE a ete de fait destructure par les differents programmes de
lutte "verticaux" contr6les financierement par les bailleurs de fonds; il a aussi perdu ses
capacites d'analyse et de reponse globale aux maladies infectieuses qui restent les premieres
causes de mortalite au Sen6gal.
21.    Cette destructuration se traduit par la perte de l'esprit et du travail d'equipe, aussi bien
au niveau central qu'au niveau peripherique. Ce manque d'esprit d'equipe est aggrave au niveau
central par l'eparpillement du personnel. Aussi bien au niveau central qu'au niveau des
Secteurs, aucun agent, etant donnee la gestion tres "verticale" des Programmes, n'est informe, ou
n'a des activites dans un Programme different de celui dans lequel il a ete assigne. Par exemple
au niveau des Secteurs, la diminution des activites dans les programmes de contr6le de la lepre et
de l'onchocercose font qu'un grand nombre du personnel est sous-employe, sans que l'on puisse
les affecter A d'autres activites.
22.    Au niveau des Secteurs, l'utilisation des ressources humaines, materielles et financieres
ne peut que tres difficilement proceder d'une approche globale dans la programmation des
activites des personnels de sante regionaux. La premiere raison est la repercussion de la
situation de destructuration observee au niveau central. Une autre raison est l'eloignement des
Secteurs par rapport aux RM.
23.    Le SNGE a peu d'activites de surveillance epidemiologique au sens propre du terme.
Toutes les maladies endemiques et les maladies epidemiques ne font pas l'objet d'un programme
de surveillance et de contr6le. En general, les programmes existants ont des objectifs non
chiffres; les strategies ne s'accompagnent ni d'une evaluation des ressources disponibles, ni de
leur faisabilite et de leur acceptabilite. En ce qui conceme la definition d'indicateurs
epidemiologiques pertinents pour guider les activites des programmes et pour evaluer leurs
progres, seuls quelques indicateurs de morbidite et de mortalite sont disponibles. Enfin, la
collecte des donnees et leur transmission, le calcul des indicateurs et leur transmission aux
responsables peuvent prendre des mois, voire plus d'une annee, rendant leur utilisation
pratiquement inutile dans la gestion des programmes et dans la prise rapide de decision.
24.   II n'existe pas de systeme d'alerte en cas d'epidemie. Les recentes epidemies de cholera,
de meningite et les menaces d'eclosion de la fievre jaune rendent indispensable la mise en place
d'un systeme d'alerte precoce.
25.    Le SLAP n'est pas, a travers ses activites, integre dans les differents programmes de
lutte des maladies endemiques, et son maintien dans la nouvelle politique de sante devrait etre
remis en question. Le laboratoire de parasitologie fait double emploi avec celui de l'h6pital
regional de Thies. Les activites entomologiques etant peu nombreuses et liees principalement A
la recherche, il serait plus rationnel de devoluer, sous forme de contrat, les activites du
laboratoire d'entomologie A la faculte des sciences.
26.    Le SNGE, par l'intermediaire des Secteurs, mene des activites de consultations curatives
et de laboratoires qui "doublent" soit celles des CS, soit celles des h6pitaux regionaux selon la
localisation des Secteurs. En resulte une utilisation peu rationnelle des ressources humaines,
materielles et financieres du SNGE. Ces activites curatives detournent les personnels des
Secteurs de leurs activites premieres qui sont la surveillance epidemiologique et le contr6le des
maladies endemiques, dans un contexte de sante publique.



96
Annex 7
Page 7 of 11
27.    Les locaux ou sont loges la DHSP et en particulier le SNGE n'appartiennent pas au
patrimoine national. De plus, la DHSP fait l'objet d'une mesure d'expulsion par les
proprietaires.
IV.   PROJET DE RENFORCEMENT INSTITUTIONNEL
Objectifs
28.    Le MSPAS souhaite renforcer les capacites du SNGE dans l'organisation de la lutte
contre les maladies endemiques et les maladies a risque epidemique eleve qui posent au Senegal
un probleme de sant6 publique. Le MSPAS a emis le souhait: (i) que ce renforcement se fasse
dans le cadre de la decentralisation des services de sante et que les activites du SNGE soient
complementaires de celles des autres services de sante ; (ii) que les nouvelles structures
organisationnelles et administratives du SNGE refletent le souci de rationalisation et de cout-
efficacite dans l'utilisation des ressources humaines, logistiques, materielles et financieres ; et
(iii) que ses partenaires au developpement appuient cette reforme, en particulier en delaissant A
terme l'approche "verticale" dans la lutte contre les maladies endemiques et epidemiques.
29.    Les objectifs specifiques de la reforme sont les suivants: (i) redefinir la mission du
SNGE dans le contexte de la decentralisation des services de sante ; (ii) etablir l'organigramme
et l'organisation du travail au sein du SNGE, au niveau central et au niveau des regions ; (iii)
6tablir au niveau central un groupe d'experts avec un fort esprit et un travail d'equipe ; et (iv)
dvaluer et allouer les ressources necessaires au SNGE pour executer sa mission.
Mission du SNGE
30.    Le SNGE concoit, coordonne et suit la politique du MSPAS dans le domaine de la lutte
contre les maladies endemiques et les maladies A risque epidemique elevd. II concoit des
programmes de lutte contre les maladies d'importance pour la sante publique et propose
plusieurs strategies en incluant des considerations de faisabilite politique, materielle et
economique. Le choix de la strategie appartient au MSPAS et au Gouvemement. Une fois la
strategie choisie, le SNGE a la responsabilite de son operationalisation et, si necessaire, de la
coordination des differents ministeres et/ou partenaires au developpement du MSPAS qui sont
impliques dans l'execution et/ou dans le financement des activites.
31.    Dans ce cadre, le SNGE etablit les plans operationnels de surveillance epidemiologique
et de lutte, dont l'execution est faite par les personnels de sante des districts et des regions. Les
antennes regionales du SNGE participent A l'elaboration de ces plans operationnels en ajustant
ceux-ci aux realites locales.
Abandon des Activites de Consultation
32.    Dans un souci de rationalisation des ressources humaines, materielles, logistiques et
financieres, le SNGE devrait transferer ses activites curatives (consultations generales et
consultations ophtalmologiques) et ses activites de laboratoire au service des Soins de Sante
Primaire et A la Direction des hopitaux. Le laboratoire national de lutte contre la



97
Annex 7
Page 8 of 11
tuberculosedevrait voir son statut revise dans les mois qui viennent dans le cadre de la
reoganisation des services du MSPAS.
Le SLAP
33.    Le SLAP verra dans les prochaines semaines sa mission precisee. De maniere generale,
le SLAP devrait par ses activites fournir au SNGE les informations relatives au suivi des
vecteurs des maladies endemiques et des maladies epidemiques. Le SLAP devrait travailler en
etroite collaboration avec l'Universite et les centres techniques comme l'ORSTOM, etc... La
localisation, le personnel et les moyens necessaires au SLAP devraient etre evalues des la
definition exacte de sa mission.
Organisation
34.    Le concept de "Coordinateur National" disparait. C'est l'equipe du SNGE toute entiere
qui est responsable de l'organisation des programmes de lutte pour chaque maladie. Le chef de
service du SNGE est responsable de la gestion du personnel et de l'attribution des taches.
L'equipe centrale etant restreinte, il est indispensable de travailler en equipe et d'avoir la plus
grande flexibilite. Les ressources humaines, logistiques et financieres ne sont pas allouees A un
programme de lutte particulier mais sont A la disposition du SNGE pour l'execution de sa
mission. Le chef de service du SNGE est responsable de la gestion rationnelle des ressources
disponibles.
35.    Au niveau regional, les personnels des Secteurs des Grandes Endemies font partie A part
entiere de l'equipe de la region medicale. Le "medecin-chef du Secteur" est l'adjoint du
m6decin-chef de region. Dans la repartition des taches entre les deux medecins, les activites
relatives A la lutte contrer les maladies endemiques et les maladies epidemiques sont la
responsabilite du medecin-chef adjoint. Cette distinction, de meme que l'appartenance au
"Secteur" n'est pas basee sur une organisation administrative specifique mais plut6t sur une
reconnaissance de competences particulieres. II en est de meme pour les infirmiers et autres
agents sanitaires. Aucun infirmier ou agent sanitaire n'est rattache A un programme particulier.
L'attribution des responsabilites, et I'appartenance au "Secteur" dans la conduite des activites
relevent seulement de la competence et non d'une nomination administrative.
36.    La gestion des ressources attribuees aux activites de lutte contre les maladies
endemiques et epidemiques se fait dans le cadre de la gestion des ressources de la region
medicale et dans le contexte de l'execution du Plan Regional de Developpement Sanitaire et
Social. Comme au niveau de l'equipe centrale, il sera necessaire, etant donne le nombre de
maladies d'impotance pour la sante publique et le peu de personnel, de mettre l'accent sur la
flexibilite du personnel.
Periode de Transition
37.    Le passage de l'organisation actuelle, dite "verticale" a une organisation "integree"
demandera du temps et des efforts d'explication. Un programme important de formation devrait
permettre une plus grande flexibilite du personnel. De nombreuses visites et supervisions des
responsables du SNGE devrait avoir lieu pendant les deux premieres annees du projet. Les



98
Annex 7
Page 9 of 11
avantages particuliers dont beneficient les agents attaches a des programmes specifiques devront
progressivement disparaitre apres concertation et explication.
Obstacle Principal
38.    La principale contrainte a la mise en place de cette reforme de l'organisation du travail
est sans aucun doute la perte d'avantages financiers et materiels pour les personnels jusque Ia
rattaches a des programmes de lutte disposant de moyens financiers importants. Cet obstacle
devrait etre surmonte par une meilleure equite dans la repartition des benefices qu'apporteraient
temporairement certains programmes de lutte. Cette reponsabilite sera celle du medecin-chef
adjoint et chef de 1'equipe du Secteur des Grandes Endemies.
Developpement d'un Esprit d'Equipe
39.    Le succes de la r6forme et du renforcement du SNGE depend en grande partie du
developpement de l'esprit d'equipe au sein du SNGE et des Secteurs. La nouvelle
organisationdu travail devrait faciliter le developpement de cet esprit. Neanmoins, il sera
necessaire de faciliter ce developpement par des exercices conduits par des professionnels. Le
projet prevoit un appui financier particulier pour developper 1'esprit d'equipe. Enfin, le FAC
finance une assistance technique longue dont les termes de ref6rence comportent une expertise
dans le developpement du travail en equipe.
Ressources Humaines, Materielles et Financieres
Ressources Humaines
40.    Le personnel du niveau central du SNGE comprend: le Chef de Service, 4 medecins
epidemiologistes (les medecins superviseurs actuels), le medecin epidemiologiste entomologiste
actuel chef du SLAP, 2 techniciens superieurs et une secretaire. Au niveau des Secteurs, le
personnel-type d'un Secteur comprend: un medecin epidemiologiste responsable du Secteur qui
seconde le Medecin-Chef de Region (MCR), un administrateur-gestionnaire qui sera le meme
que celui de la RM, 3 ou 4 IDE/AS/TM dont un forme a la saisie informatique des donnees, un
ou deux chauffeurs.
Ressources Mate'rielles et Logistiques
41.   Un ordinateur est fourni au Secteur dans le cadre du systeme d'information. Deux
vehicules sont necessaires a chaque Secteur; un decompte des vehicules en etat a ete fait et sera
pris en compte lors de l'evaluation des besoins. En fonction des situations epidemiologiques
propres a chaque region, il est possible de varier le nombre et la qualite des personnels des
Secteurs si necessaire (e.g. malacologiste dans la region de St Louis)
Ressources Financieres
42.    Les ressources financieres sont variables en fonction des activites specifiques de la
region et doivent etre evaluees dans le contexte du Plan Regional de Developpement Sanitaire et



99
Annex 7
Page 10 of II
Social. Actuellement, chaque Secteur dispose d'environ US$ 10,000 par an pour son
fonctionnement, 1'eau, 1'electricite et le carburant.
Rehabilitation des Locaux
43.   Un batiment du patrimoine national, d'une surface habitable d'environ 6,000 m2, est
attribue au MSPAS, en particulier A la DHSP, et sera rehabifite dans le cadre du projet.
L'ensemble des personnels du SNGE (superviseurs nationaux + le chef du SLAP) est regroupe
au niveau du nouveau batiment de la DHSP. Au niveau de chaque RM, un batiment sera
rehabilite pour heberger les personnels des Secteurs des Grandes Endemies afin de faciliter la
coordination des activites et des personnels des RM et des Secteurs.



REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
MINISTERE DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE ET DE L'ACTION SOCIALE
ORGANIGRAMME DE LA DIRECTION DE L'HYGIENE ET DE LA SANTE PUBLIQUE
(DHSP)
Ditdeur    |
Diredeur.MjOt
Dhop         Servce Natonal   DMon de la Sanle    Serke Natonal  Servce oaimal   amsiool         DMsiool     OMnoo de Afaires   DMon de la    DMsion des Cabrnet
des             de         Matemele e Infaglte  des         de 'Alimenta600  des Sois de       de la       Admiolstraties et   Sante        Mdicaux et des
Staistiques       Te Pe NiOg Familial    Gmodes Eddmies    et de la Nut         Sanir Pimaire   Santi Meotale    FirMan&res      BumDentaire     Cinoques PNiis
Servce    Sevc
Sanhaie   Saritair de
duPol    I_H                                                     I                                            
Centre                      I - H - S                  C-N-A-O                     Centre National
Anti-Diabe tique                                                                    de transfusion Sanguine



101
Annex 8
Page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    This project is designed to strengthen national capabilities in the surveillance and control
of endemic and potential epidemic diseases, and to afford an opportunity to upgrade the public
sector agency vested with these responsibilities. The project is part of the health sector
investment program (SIP) the Government is presently preparing with World Bank and donor
assistance. The SIP will consist of a five year-investment program for the period 1997-2000.
The SIP was initiated following the adoption by the Government of a strategic framework of
health sector development. This report examines the following aspects of the project: (i)
economic and sectoral context; (ii) economic impact and cost-effectiveness; (iii) budgetary
impact of recurrent costs; (iv) analysis of institutional capacity; and (v) poverty alleviation
effects.
11.    ECONOMIC AND SECTORAL CONTEXT
2.    The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal, discussed by the Board on February
16, 1995, supports the Government's 1995-97 economic recovery program-a program intended
to eliminate structural imbalances stemming from the country's poor economic management
record over the last ten years, and to lay the foundations for sustainable economic growth. One
of the program's major strategic axis is that of human resources development. In the case of the
health sector, this means improving the availability of basic health services in both urban and
rural areas, thereby helping to raise the productivity of the working population. With this goal in
mind, the Government's strategy is to reverse the trend toward lower expenditure of maintaining
health services, by increasing budget appropriations and simultaneously improving resource
allocation within the sector.
3.     Since 1993, the Government has conducted several studies designed to give it a better
grasp of the obstacles to, and opportunities for, health sector development existing in the
Senegalese economy. A health sector public expenditure review was also carried out in 1993. A
study on sector financing is currently under way. Also in progress is a study on the promotion of
a shared system to ensure better health care delivery, and a separate study on ways of
diversifying hospital revenue sources. These studies will complement reforms aimed at giving
hospitals greater management autonomy.
4.    In addition, the Government has mapped out programs for the control of malaria,
onchocerciasis and schistosomiasis. The proposed project is a natural extension of these, and of



102
Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
policy changes associated therein. It also fits in with the Government's sectoral investment
strategy, as well as with the health policy the Bank envisages supporting in Senegal.
III.   ECONOMIC IMPACT, COST-EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS AND ALTERNATIVES
5.     The general objective of the project is to strengthen the country's ability to control
endemic, and potentially epidemic diseases. Its specific objectives are: institutional
reinforcement of the National Endemic Diseases Agency (Service national des grandes
endemies), development of a computerized, network-based health information (and
epidemiological surveillance) system, and targeted assistance with implementation of malaria,
onchocerciasis and schistosomiasis control programs. The project is consistent with both the
Bank's assistance strategy for Senegal, and the Government's economic recovery strategy. It
will contribute to greater effectiveness in the health sector and reduce the burden infectious
diseases place on the economy.
6.    The malaria control program, the main component of the project, is expected to have a
significant economic impact. All health statistics in Senegal point to malaria as the leading
cause of disease and death nationwide. For instance, the malaria program itself puts the
morbidity rate of 1993 at 35.3%. At present, however, Senegal has no data to provide a basis for
quantifying its economic losses attributable to malaria and evaluating the extent to which they
impede its development. Some preliminary studies on this subject have recently been conducted
in other countries in the subregion, namely Cameroon, Chad, Congo and Burkina Faso. Malaria
research throughout the African continent as a whole reveals that while the effective economic
cost of malaria at both the individual and household levels is still largely unknown, significant
costs are incurred with respect to time lost, transport to obtain health care, early death, and health
care services. Although some of these factors are measurable, the extent of under-employment
and the seasonal nature of work in rural areas make it difficult to determine the actual impact of
this disease on productivity and development.
7.    The malaria studies conducted in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and in particular Burkina
Faso, assess the direct costs of treating the disease and carrying out control activities, and the
indirect costs associated with work time lost and early death. These results have allowed the
economic impact of malaria to be measured and extrapolations to be made as a basis for
estimates covering sub-Saharan Africa as a whole. The average daily cost of producing goods
and services is estimated at US$0.82. The average case of malaria results in the loss of 11 work
days, or a cost per individual of US$9.84, or around 2% of per capita GNP in Senegal. Given the
country's still high population growth rate of 2.,7 and the low per capita income, currently
equivalent to about US$600 annually, the product lost for illness will be important. The malaria
control measures proposed will help mitigate this loss, or possibly reverse it owing to their
positive effect on total working time.
8.    The findings of cost-effectiveness studies in the fields of basic health care promotion and
infectious diseases control in developing countries justify intervention by the public sector.
Government financing of a range of essential health services is warranted by the large positive
externality it generates, and the fact that it reduces poverty and promotes equity. In Senegal, the
health insurance system remains limited, with many individuals being responsible for their own
Lemox, R.W., Vector Biology and Control Project, Arlington, VA, USA.



103
Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
health costs. A private medical consultation for a common ailment costs approximately US$18,
which uninsured persons pay directly from their pockets; the direct cost of the same consultation
to a poor patient attending a public health facility, in particular in rural area, is around US$2.50.
9.    By putting particular emphasis on prevention as a means of disease control, the proposed
project will provide a notable opportunity to reduce indirect costs, especially for health care
sought during the rainy season, when access to clinics is very difficult and takes longer, thereby
pushing costs higher-or even impossible, as in the case of mothers and children who die before
treatment can be obtained. The prevention strategy will be to educate mothers (the recognized
main providers of basic health care) on how to treat diseases effectively, with more accessible
means, from the earliest possible instance. In addition, medication will be distributed through
health committees at village-level rather than through the few private pharmacies in rural areas, a
method that reduces their cost substantially.
IV.   BUDGETARY IMPACT OF RECURRENT COSTS
10.   During the course of the pre-appraisal mission, recurrent costs stemming from
investment operations associated with each project component were identified so that their
impact on the budget of the Ministry of Public Health and Social Action could be estimated. An
examination was also made of the permanent arrangements for financing.
11.   An analysis of the Health Ministry's operating budget before and during project
implementation is presented below. The effect of recurrent costs in the post-project period is
also presented, an analysis which will form an integral part of the appraisal of recurrent expenses
likely to be generated by the actions and measures planned under the health sector investment
program for the next five years.
TRENDS AND STRUCTURE OF MSPAS BUDGET
CFAF Billions
1993             1994                1995               1996
Item      Budget  % of    Budget   % of        Budget  % of       Budget  % of
approp. total    approp.   total     approp.  total     approp.  total
Personnel   8.0     67.7      8.8       55.9      9.4      56.4     10.0     53.0
Supplies    3.5     30.0      4.2      26.2      4.5      26.7       8.4     45.0
Transfer    0.3      2.3      2.8       17.9      2.8      16.9     0.4       2.0
TOTAL       11.8    100.0    15.8      100.0    16.7    100.0       18.8    100.0
SOURCE: Ministry of Finance
MSPAS SHARE OF GENERAL BUDGET PROJECTED TO 2001
CFAF Billions
1997         1998         1999          2000         2001
State                324.6         334.3        344.0        354.6         365.2
MSPAS                 19.9         25.1          29.3         31.9         32.9
MSPAS/State (%)       6.1           7.5          8.5           9.0          9.0



104
Annex 8
Page 4 of 5
a)    Composition
12.   Examination of the MSPAS's budget structure indicates an improvement in
expenditures' composition. Payroll costs absorbed approximately 68% of the total appropriation
to the agency in 1993, a figure which subsequently began to decline, reaching 53% in 1996,
while expenditures for supplies increased to 45% in 1996. This pattern reflects a concern to
adjust health spending to emphasize maintenance operations and reduce payroll costs to levels
commensurate with budget resources.
b)    Trends
13.   Over the last three years, following the devaluation of the CFAF, the MSPAS budget has
shown an average (15%) growth in current value. The share of the Ministry's operating cost
figures over the same period have been 5.8%, 6.48% and 6.75% of the Government's total
budget. This stabilization of the MSPAS general budget is not in accordance with the stated
intention of raising it to 9% by the year 2000 in order to ensure coverage of basic health care
needs. However, this short coming in budget is mitigated: the formulas worked out for
community participation in health costs have partially covered financing gaps thus far. This
move towards participation will continue, being reinforced on the basis of mutual/health
insurance system formulas now being developed within communities served by existing health
facilities, with donor assistance from France, the European Union, and IDA (as part of its next
health sector project).
14.   The above table on the national budget projections for the next five years, which
assumes an average annual growth of 3% (the Finance Ministry's low hypothesis), shows the
health sector share gradually reaching the level of 9% by the year 2000. That will help as a tool
to increase the sector's effectiveness in delivering primary health care, as well as reducing the
high morbidity rate in the country due to endemic diseases.
RECURRENT PROJECT COSTS AND THEIR BUDGETARY IMPACT
(in thousands of CFAF)
Investment            Annual Recurrent Costs (000)               Total
(000)
1        2        3        4        5
Total   8,500,000     221,000   227,000  234,000  241,000  249,000       1,172,000
15.   Project-related recurrent costs will total CFAF 1.172 million over the project's
implementation period, or an average of CFAF235 million per annum. Their financing, described
below, depends on whether they are the operating costs of project's implementation, or the
supplementary expenses of a permanent nature associated with post-project program
continuation and development.
16.   During project execution, the Government will make counterpart contributions of 10%
of operating expenses and the cost of goods and services-for a total of CFAF200 million.



105
Annex 8
Page 5 of 5
However, once the execution phase is completed, for the continuance of various activities, the
Government will allocate CFAF828.5 million for program supervision costs (operating expenses,
vehicle maintenance, equipment and materials, and computer network maintenance arrangements
with a private contractor). The purchasing of medications will be the responsibility of
beneficiaries.
17.   The CFAFI,172 million additional expenditure during project implementation will
correspond to 13,8% of investment spending, of which the Government will support CFAF200
million, representing 0.6% of the MSPAS budget under the above budget projections up to the
year 2000.
V.    INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
18.   As previously noted, one of the objectives of the proposed project is to strengthen
national capabilities in the surveillance and control of endemic and potentially epidemic
diseases. The project will help in reorganizing and upgrading a nationwide health management
information system. For the most part, elements of the existing system are designed to respond
to specific programs financed by donors with differing objectives. Consequently, redundant
information is being generated by the same health agencies, but none have as yet been able to
develop an instrument to assist in decision-making analyses. The new system will be set up to
fill this gap during project execution.
19.   Supervision of this disease control project will be the responsibility of MSPAS, through
the staff of its Directorate of Hygiene and Public Health, to which SNGE is answerable.
VI.   POVERTY ALLEVIATION ANALYSIS
20.   The economic recession faced by Senegal in recent years has profoundly affected the
health sector, as budget restrictions have led to the deterioration of health infrastructure,
disruptions in supplies of essential pharmaceutical products, and in some places, to shortages of
appropriately qualified medical personnel. The difficulties have been exacerbated by the poor
use of limited sector financial resources. For the most part, it is the poor who have borne the
brunt of the situation, with their contributions to the financing of health care services. Moreover,
maintenance and expansion of health coverage in Senegal has been largely ascribable to donor
activities. IDA, through its just-completed Health and Population Project, has strengthened the
ability of district-level health structures to provide a basic range of health care delivery services,
and has assisted in developing the national essential drugs supply and distribution system.
21.   Poverty studies carried out in Senegal in 1993, revealed that 80% of poor households are
found in rural areas, and that the poor allocate 17% of their monthly spending to health. The
rural poor are the group with the least access to health services, and the diseases targeted by the
proposed project are most prevalent in rural areas. The Government is currently working
towards the improved targeting of poor population groups, and successful completion of the
proposed project's activities will advance this aim.



106
Annex 9
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION PLAN
Project Year            Activity           Expected Skill       Staff Input (Staff
Requirements             weeks)
1997                     Project Launch     Task Manager,                  2
Workshop        Procurement spec.
November 1997          Supervision Mission   Task manager                   4
Procurement Spec.
March 1998             Supervision Mission   Task Manager,                  4
Procurement spec.
Novemberl998           Supervision Mission   Task Manager                   6
Procurement Spec.
. ____________________    Public  Health  spec.
March 1999             Supervision Mission   Task Manager,                 4
Procurement spec.
November 1999           Mid-term Review    Task Manager, Pro-              10
curement spec.,
Health Economist,
IEC specialist, Institu-
tional Capacity Spe-
cialist
March 2000                                  Task Manager                   4
Procurement Spec.
November 2000                               Task Manager                   4
Public Health Spec
March 2001                                  Task Manager                   4
Procurement Spec.
November 2001                               Task manager                   4
Public Health Spec
March 2002                ICR Mission       Task Manager, Proc.            4
spec.,



PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Pre poject                                             Project Year                                           Total        Procu        # of
1997              1998              1999             2000              2001             2002         Payment       rement    Packages
Project Elements\Quarters       JFMAMJJASOND  JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND J FMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND   000 USS                                Method      Contracts
Board       x
SignaturelEffec8veness/Ctsoing       x x                                                                                                x
A. WORKS
1. DHSP Rehabilitation
1.1. DHSP                               dddbbeA   mwww                                                                                        837          ICS           1
1.2. SGEs                               dddbbeA  cmrw                                                                                         703         NCB           10
B. EQUIPMENT
1. Public Health Equipment               dddbbeA
1 1. Nictosamide & Deltamethrine                  cmmnn              crmmw            cmmw             cmmww             cnnmr                710          LIB       1 x 5years
1.2. Oncho Lab Equip.                             cmrA"w                              cmmw                               cr1mm                 68          LIB       1x 3years
1.3. Bednets                                      cmrmw              crnmm                                                                    450          NCB       1 x 2 years
2. Ofnce, Equipt a Supplies
2.1. For DSPH and SGEs                         dd  dAbbeAcmmwww                                                                                                          t
3. Vehicles
3.1. For SNGE and SGEs                         dd dAbbeAcmm  ww                                                                               509                        1
4. Computers Equipement
4 1. Computers/Configuabons               dddAbbe Acrnmmww                                                                                    1,031        ICe           1
C. FURNITURE
1. Office Furniture
1 1. For the SNGE and SGEs                    ddd AbbeAmmww                                                                                   181
1.2. For the PCU                   dcmnw                                                                                                      4.8
D. DRUGS                                  dddbbeA
Praziquantel / Reagent Strips                     cm-                cmw              cnn w            cmw               cmww                375.7         LIB      1 x 5 years                                                             O
E. TRAINING                               =__
1. Local Training
Comp. 1.1.                                                                                                -
Nurses, Midwives & Practners               ww                                                                                               285
BRHs Staff                                       w            w    A    w w w          j ww          wwwwwwwwwwceocWA   WWWWw              179
Comp. 2.1.
Health Staff m SIG Uilization                     _       w                                                                                 226
Comp. 3.1: SNGE Staff                          w         w                 w                 w                w                w              20
Comp. 3.2.
Trainers: SGEs, Hosp, Dist, Lab                                         wwww              w w                                                So 500
2. Overeas Training
Comp.3.1: SNGE                                                   w                w                w                 w                w      90
Comp.3.2:
SGEs, Distr, Lab & Hosp Pract.                         w          w                        ww               www                             289                                                                        d
Heahth Staff in SIG Utlizabon                            b                                                                                  226                                                                       p
Comp. 3.1 SNGE Staff                           w         w                 w                 w                w                w             20                                                                         (D
Comp. 3 2
Trainers: SGEs, Hosp, Dist, Lab                                                          rrww ww          w w                                500
2. Overeas Training                                                                                                                                                                                                          (D
Comp. 3.1: SNGE                                                  w                w                w                 w                w      90                                                                        O
Comp.3.2:.
SGEs, Distr, Lab & Hosp Pract.                                                                                                               8 9 ww  w  289



PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Prm projed                                          Project Year                                         Total       Procu        # of
1997              1998             1999            2000             2001            2002         Payment    merent    Packages
Projet ElementseQuarters      JFMAMJJASOND  JFMAMJJASOND  JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASONLD JFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND   000 USS                          Method    Contracts
Board      x
SignatumlEffectiveness/Closing      x x                           _
G. CONSULTANTS
SERVICESlEC
LOU/TORs/Sh. L. forApproval                 dde                   dde             dde              dde             dde
Award/Contect reiew by IDA                      aac                     aac              aac              e               aac
1. ArctlEngJSupvn
Comp. 3.1/3.2: DAO/Superv. works                       w*ww*w www                                                                       177
2. Audit end Accounting
Set accounting system/Support          w     _          w                w                w               w               w
Annual audit/Project C.UJTSF           WWWWeW WW                  WWW             www              wNw             www
3. Spec. or Local Servies
Coyp. 1.1: Edirte Studies                  wwW           --WWw*w**w                -WWW                                                 110
Conyp. 1.2: 0. R. Studies                                                              a                                                300
Conyp. 2.2: Conput Engine r mi
Comnputer Engineer Firm                wwww          w          w*%VWVwVAw   WW*WWWWWW    WWWWWWWW   w                  _w            22f
Resources Persons                        ww          Ww               ww               ww              ww              WWW             85
Conp. 3.1: Control Prorams                 w*w www                w*w             w*w              w*w             w*w                  96
Conp. 3.3: PCU
PCU Accountant                             w          wW               ww               wW              Ww              ww             9
Audit Services                                       waw ww                            w*w             w*w             w*w
Contukst Services                                    ww                Vw              Ww               wW              ww             6                                                                                       CO
4. SpeocisltiRntemationlt
Conp 1.2: 0. & R. Studies                     w         Ww              Ww               wN              Ww               ww            258
Conyp. 2.1: Netwxk Desvp
Network Development                                                                                                                   669
Server Sotware Progronming           dddAbbe Acmrrwww                                                                                 320
S. IEC
Conyp. 1.1: HH, HP, HC                    w*w              www  wwviw V WW                                                          1.148
Conp. 2.2: Coot. Workshps, KAP                         Ww               Ww              wA               Ww              wA             63
Conyp. 3.1: Net Canp., Workeshpe                             ww               ww              W*                  |            ww      283
Conyp. 3.2: Regional Campsigns                 ww                ww               ww              ww               ww                   23
OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                           Id
IDA                                                            a        wa   (wQ
GOVT                        w       _          a*                 w         *****wwwww*                                                                                                 D2
TOTAL IDA                                                                                                                                  _
NBF                                                                                                                                                                                                    (D
TOTAL COST                                                                                                                                                                                            O1X
r recruitbent of consutant - d: bid docLoi/Tdr - b: bidding period - e: evaluation - a: approval (BankaGovt) -
c contract ignabta - m: mobilzetiot/meonufcturing - w works, supplyfrinstaletion or execution of services                         j                                                                                 O



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Endemic Diseases     Management Info System    Institutional Strengthening
Monitoring              Monitoring   SNGE
Operational     &        System        and       central    SNGE     Project
Activities   Evaluation  Development Evaluation    level    Regions  operation    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               -          -            -          -    1,674.8    1,172.3        -     2,847.1
B. Drugs, Chemicals                      976.2          -            -          -          -         -         -       976.2
C. Equipment, Materials                  688.3          -      1,161.3          -      213.2     208.9       16.0    2,287.6
D. Vehicles                                  -          -            -          -      122.8     442.1      44.7       609.6
E. Furniture                                 -          -            -          -      133.2      48.0       4.8       186.0
F. Consultants services Local          1,351.9      557.7            -      226.3      289.5     135.5      14.1     2,575.1
G. Consultants Services Int.                 -          -      1,308.1      148.1      864.5         -      84.9    2,405.7
H. Training                              891.3          -        226.3       56.6      333.4     789.8         -     2,297.4
I. IEC                                      -           -           -           -      282.9      22.6         -       305.5
J. Operating Costs                       177.8      569.1            -          -       88.9     355.7      47.4      1,238.9
Total InvestmentCosts                    4,085.5     1,126.8     2,695.8      431.0   4,003.2    3,174.9     211.9    15,729.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Consumables                               -          -            -      226.3      113.2     101.8         -       441.3                              C
B. Vehicles 0 & M                            -          -            -          -      113.2     448.1         -       561.3
C. Communication/Premisses O&M               -          -            -      226.3         -          -         -       226.3
Total Recurrent Costs                          -          -            -      452.7      226.3     550.0         -     1,229.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                       4,085.5    1,126.8      2,695.8      883.7    4,229.5    3,724.9    211.9    16,958.0
Taxes                                     17.8       56.9            -       45.3      212.3     212.6       5.2       550.1
Foreign Exchange                       2,367.8      310.2      2,483.2      285.0   2,409.1    1,772.2     161.9    9,789.5
o X
3
4/3/974:02 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 1.1 Operational Activities
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                                  Unit                Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       1997        1998       1999        2000        2001        Total       Cost     1997      1998    1999    2000    2001       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Manaris/Badnets /a                       per year                                                                                       287.8   296.4        -        -       -      584.1
Oncho/Lab materials                      per year                                                                                        21.3        -    22.6        -    24.0       67.9
Schisto/reagent strips                  thousand          320        320         320         320         320         1,600    0,02        6.8      7.0     7.2      7.5      7.7      36.2
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                                        315.9   303 4     29.8      7.5    31.7      688.3
S. Drugs
Schiisto/Praziquantel /b                 per year                                                                                       1066     65.9    67.8    69.9    72.0        382.1
Molluscicide/c                            ton               2          2           2           2           2           10       15       32.0    32.9    33.9    34.9    36.0        169.7
Deiametrine /d                           per year                                                                                        79.9    82.3    84.8    87 3    90.0        424.4
Subtotal Drugs                                                                                                                            218.5   181.1   186.6   192.2   197.9        9762
C. Consultant Services
IEClMalaria                              per year                                                                                       191.8   155.9   126.6   151.4   134.3        760.1
Unicef support to IEC                    per year                                                                                        30.5    31.4    32.3    33.3    34.3        161.7
IEC Schisto                              per year                                                                                        32.0    32.9    33.9    34.9    36.0        169.7
IEC Oncho                                peryear                                                                                         107      11.0    11.3    11.6    12.0        56.6
Maaria/fBednet Studies                   per year                                                                                        55.4    17.6    18.1    18.6         -      109.7
WHO support                              per year                                                                                        30.5    31.4    32.3         -       -       94.1
Subtotal Consultant Services                                                                                                              350.8   2801    254.6   249.9   2166    1,351.9
D. Training
Malaria/Nurses and Midwives              per year                                                                                        25.7    26.4    27.2    28.1    28.9        136.3 
Malaria/Abroad Training                  per year                                                                                        53.3    37.3    113        5.8    24.0      131.7       
Malaria/Hygiene staff /e                 per year                                                                                        30.5    31.4    32.3    33.3    34.3        161.7
SchistoiNurses'                          per year                                                                                        22.3    23.0    23.7    24.4    25.1        118.6
Schisto/BRH staff/N                      peryear                                                                                          3.2     3.3      3.4      3.5     3.6       17.0
Schiato/School Teachers                  peryear                                                                                         447     460      47.4    48.8    50.3       237.1
Schisto/Opinion Leaders                  peryear                                                                                         11.2    11.5    11.8    12.2    126          59.3
Oncho/Nurses and HCW                     per year                                                                                         5 6      5.7     5.9      6.1      6.3      29.6
Subtotal Training                                                                                                                         196.4   184.7   163.1   1622    185.0        891.3
E. Operating Costs
Malaria/Hygiene field mission /g         peryear                                                                                         22.3    23.0    23.7    244       251       118.6
Schisto/Hygiene field mission /h         per year                                                                                        11.2    11.5    11.8    12.2    12.6         59.3
Subtotal Operating Costs                                                                                                                   33.5    34.5    35.5    36.6    37.7        177.8
Total                                                                                                                                      1,115.0   983.8   669.6   648.2   668.9    4,085.5
\a for support to provision of: 150 000 bednets, 18 000 liters delthamethnne, consumables
\b includes: initial stock of 2,000cp praziquantel in 320 health posts, and prziquantel large scale treatment for an average of 2,000 children per year                                         e
vc for supply of niclosamid to be spread in snail infested ponds                                                                                                                               P)
vd to impregnate bednets                                                                                                                                                                       9>
la for hygiene staff in the bednet impregnation techniques                                                                                                                                        0
V for Service d'Hygiene (Briguades Regionales d'Hygiene) staff in the utilization of molluscicides                                                                                             r >
\9 for hygiene service staff to inpregnate bednets                                                                                                                                             O x
\h for Service d'Hygiene staff to spread molluscicides                                                                                                                                         -h
4/3/974:05 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 1 2 Monitoring and Evaluation
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                                  Unit               Totals Including Contingencies
Unit            1997       1998        1999        2000        2001        Total       Cost    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001         Total
I. Investnint Costs
A. Specialist Services
MalariaOR studiies                                 per year                                                                                            60 7    85 6    105 2     55 9    63 6      371.0
Schisto/prevalnece Studies                         per year                                                                                            42 6       -    45 2         -    48 0      135.8
Schistotwnpad evaluation survey                     survey                 -           -          1           -                         1      20         -       -    22 6         -       -       22 6
Oncho/OR                                           per year                                                                                             5 3     5 5      5 7      5 8     6 0       283
Subtota Specialist Services                                                                                                                             1087     91.1   1786       617    1176       5577
B. Oprating Coats
MalanarSchistoiOnrtvSupervisionla                hithposliyear           80          8oo0                      -          -         1,600     0.12    1072    1104         -        -        -     2176
MalariatSchisto/Ondio/Gov Superv. /b           health posts/year           -           -        800         800         800         2,400     0,12        -       -   1137    1171    1206         351.5
Subtotal Operating Costs                                                                                                                                107 2    110 4    113 7    117 1    120 6    5691
Tota                                                                                                                                                      215 9    2015    292 4    178 8    238 2    1,1268
ba Supervision of Heaith posts by District staff 6 missions per year for 1 person x 1 day x $20 (transportation and subsistance allowance)
ib Supervision missions supported by Gov budget for the following 3 years
I-d
fD
(D
4/3/974 09 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 2 1 System Development and Implementation
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Quantities                          Unit                    Totals Including Contingencies
Unit      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001      Total    Cost      1997       1998      1999    2000    2001        Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Computers and Servers /a                 package           -        1         -         -         -         1      940          -    1,031 9        -        -       -    1,031 9
Health application /b                    package         0.6      0.4         -         -         -         1      120       76.7       52.7       -        -        -       129.4
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                             76 7    1,084.5            -        -         1.161.3
B. Specialist Services
Network Development & Setting /c         package         0.6      0.4              -              -         1     620       396.5      272 2        -       -        -      668 7
Server programing                        package          1         -         -         -         -         1     300       319 7          -        -        -       -      319 7
Contract Management                        ens.                                                                             3197           -                                319.7
Subtotal Specialist Services                                                                                                 1,035 9     272.2        -        -       -    1.308 1
C. Training
Software utilization /d                  program         0.2      0.2       0 2       0.2       0.2         1      200       42.6       43 9     45 2    46.6    48.0       226 3
Total                                                                                                                          1,155 3    1,400.7    45.2    46.6      480      2,695.8
\a 141 computers, 12 servers and accessories including starting batch of consumables
\b for server programing
\c indudes network implementation (000$ 520) and training in use of network (000$ 100)
\d training of distrct and regional officers in the utilization of the "Logiciel Santet
crQ 
ko
I'd
'0 '-4
4/3/974:08 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 2.2. Monitonng and Evaluation Activities
Detailed Costs
(USS '000)
Quantities                            Unit               Totals Including Contingencies
Unit           1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      Total     Cost    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001          Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Consutant Services
KAP Surveys la                             peryear               -         -         1         -         1          2       15        -        -     17 0        -    18 0      35.0
Conferences/Workshops                      peryear               1         1         1         1         1          5        5      5 3      5.5      5.7      5.8      6.0     28 3
Resources Persons                     person month year          1         1         1         1         1          5       15     160      16.5     170      175      18.0     84.9
ComputerEngineenngFirm b                 person/year             2         2         2         2         2         10       20     42.6     43.9     452      46.6     48.0    2263
Subtotal Consultant Services                                                                                                         63 9     65 9     84.8    69.9    90.0    374.4
B. Training
Study Tours/c                              peryear               1         1         1         1         1          5       10     10.7    11.0      11 3     11.6    12.0      56.6
Total lInvestnmnt Costs                                                                                                                74.6    76.8    961        81 5    102.0   431.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Recurrent Expenditures
Consumables                                per year              1         1         1         1         1          5       40     42 6     43.9    45.2      46 6     48.0   226.3
Equipment maintenance                     per year               1         1         1         1         1          5       40     42.6    43.9    45 2       46.6    48.0   226 3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                  85.3    87.8      90.5    93.2    96.0   452.7
Total                                                                                                                                  159.9    164.7   186.6    174 7    197 9    883.7
\a to carry out beneficiary assessments
\b To manage and maintain the MIS computer network
\c for members ot the "Conseil National de l'information"
ox
(D>
.o X-
4 7h
4/3/974:07 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 3.1. Inst. Str. - SNGE Central level
Detailed Costs
(US$000)
Quantities                              Unit                 Totals Including Contingencies
Unit         197         1998      1999      2000     2001        Total       Cost     1997      199      1999    2000    2001       Total
1. Invstment Coss
A. Civil works
Offices rehabilitation /a                m2               5,000              -         -             -         5,000      0,3    1,674.8       -        -        -        -    1,6748
B. Equipment
Vehicls                                 vehicle               5         -         -         -        -             5       22      122.8       -        -        -        -      122.8
Office Equipment /b                     total                                                                                      213.2       -        -        -        -      213.2
Subotabl Equipnwnt                                                                                                                   336.0       -        -        -               336.0
C. Furnt1ur1
Office Fumiture                         total                                                                                      133.2       -        -        -        -      133.2
D. Consultnt Services
prkshops/c                             peryear                1         1        1         1         1             5       10       10.7    11.0    113       11.6    120         56.6
National Campaigns                     per year                                                                                     42.6    43.9    45.2    46.6    48.0        226.3
Local Consultants                     person/mth             30         -         -                               30        3       95.9       .        -        -        -      95.9
Clvii orks Design/Superv. Id            fees                                                                                       134,3    59.3        -        -        -      193.6
Internationai consultants /a          persontmth             10         -        5                                15       12      1279        -    67.8         -        -      195.7
Epidemiology assistant It               sum                                                                                        159.9   164.7   169.6   174.7          -     66.88
SuEtotalaConsultant If                                                                                                               571.2   278.8   294.0   2329        60.0    1,436.9
E. Tnaining
Training Modules                         sum                                                                                        426     22.0    22.6    23.3          -      110.5 
nStudy Tours                             sum                                                                                        53.3    54.9    56.5    58.2          -      222.9     p.
Subdotl Tursning                                                                                                                      95.9    76.8    79.1      B15         -      333.4
F. Operating Costs /l                    per year               1         1        1         1         1             5       15       16.7    17.2    178       18.3    18.8       86.9
Total lnve.byent Costs                                                                                                               2,827.8   372.9   390.9   332.7    78.8    4,003.2
It. Recrnt Coets
A. Operatlon and Maintenance
OfflleEquipmentO&M                     peryear                1         1        1         1         1             5      20        21.3    22.0    22.6    23.3    240          113.2
Vehidesmaintenance                     peryear                1         1        1         1         1             5       20       21.3    22.0    22.6    23.3    24.0         113.2
Total Recurrent Coats                                                                                                                   42.6    43.9    45.2    46.6    48.0         226.3
Totl                                                                                                                                  2,870.5   416.8   4361    379.3   1268    4,229.5
\a indudes MOH cabinet, DHSP and DAGE offices
vb induding fax machines (10), photocopier (3), retroprojector (2), slides projector and telephone sets/installation
vc for SNGE staff for conceptualization, design and adjustment of program activities
vd including Agetipe (5%) and consultants fees (7%)
\e indudes short term consultancy for TA to the SNGE and Burden of Disease Analysis in project third year.                                                                                lb
V financed by French Cooperation                                                                                                                                                          (D
\g 6 pesons during 60 working days per year (induding subsistance allowance)                                                                                                               O
O 40
413/974:06 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 3.2. SNGE region
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                                   Unit                 Totals Including Contngencie
Unit            1997         1998        1999        200         2001        Total       Cost      1997      1998    1999    2000         2001   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. CIvt works
Oftrcs rehdiitaton /a                           m2                  3,000           -           -           -           -         3,000    0,35     1,1723        -        -                      1,1723
B. Equipmnt
Vehices                                        vehicle                 1 8          -           -           -           -           18       22      4421         -        -        -        -      4421
OfficeEruip,mert/b                            perregion                9                  -           -                 -            9       10       959                      -             -       959
Lebratory Equpment I/c                       per distinct             53                                                            53        2      113 0                      _                   113 0
Subtotal EquIpmnt                                                                                                                                      6510         -        -        -        -      6510
C. Funitu
Olfice Fumture                                per region               9                                                             9        5       48 0                 -          -              46 0
0. Tranting
TriningiofDMtOs/RMOs/d                       personlyear             100         100         100         100         100           500        1      1066    1098    1131    1165    1200           5658
TraiingLobAsiat /e                           person/year              53          53          53          53          53           265      0,5       296      305      314      323      33.3      1571
Study Tours I                                   sum                                                                                                   160      165      17.0     175         -       669
Sublotelraln*ng                                                                                                                                         1521    1567    1614    166.3   153.3         7898
. Opeatng Costs
Field SiprvoniMsionss /9g                   per regiovyear              1          1           1           1           1             5       60       67 0     69.0    711       73.2    75 4       355 7
F. Conutnt Sevice
Regional Ca-npas                              per year                                                                                                 4 3      4 4      4 5      4 7     4 8       22 6
CNiv Works DesigfSupervision /h                fees                                                                                                   94-0     415         -        -       -       1355
Subotl Consultat Service                                                                                                                                983      459       45       4.7      48       158.1
TotalInvesmnt Costs                                                                                                                                     2,1887    271.6   2370    2441    2334        3.1749
M. Recurrent Costs b-i
A.Oprato and Usintenance
OlficEquintfO&M                            per year/region             9           9           9           9           9            45        2       192      198      204      210      216       1018
Vehides mrntenance                            per year                                                                                                84.4    86.9    89 5       92 2     95.0      448 1
Total Recuant Costa                                                                                                                                      103.6   106.7   109.9    1132    1166          5500
Total                                                                                                                                                   2,292.3   378.3   346 9    357 3    350.0    3.724 9
la 9 regona officrs to renovate and construction of one staff house for eacil SNGE medical officer
lb inkikxing tax ma'hine, photocopler, reroprojector. slidos projector and teleohone sets/instalation
%c one mcrosoope per district
vd Yawly refrhshin onases on integrated M&E of endemF dsses
vi Sit enprovement training to be held yeariy at tie regiwal hospdals
I To be canted out in le sui-region
I9 3 pe       during 120 working days per yea (including subsistence allowances) per region
vI ffkiding Ae   and local consukents fees for design and supervision
0Q
(TiD
o M
4/3v974.00 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Table 3.3. Institutional Strengthening - Project Operation
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                           Unit                Totals Including Contingencies
Unit       1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      Total    Cost    1997       1998    1999    2000       2001     Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Equipment /a
Office Equipment                    set                                                                               16.0        -        -        -        -     16.0
Vehicles                           unit            2          -         -         -         -         2       20      44.7        -        -        -        -     44.7
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                      60.6        -        -        -        -     60.6
B. Furniture
Office Fumiture /b                 set             3          -         -         -         -         3       1,5      4.8        -        -        -        -      4.8
C. Services
Audit Services                   per year          1          1         1         1         1         5       15      16.0     16.5     17.0    17.5      18.0     84.9
Accountant                       peryear           1         1          1         1         1         5       1,5      1.6      1.6      1.7      1.7      1.8      8.5
Contractual Services /c          per year          1          1         1         1         1         5        1       1.1      1.1      1.1      1.2      1.2      5.7
Subtotal Services                                                                                                       18 7     19.2    19.8      20.4    21.0      99.0
D. Operating Costs
Vehicles 0 & M                   per year                                                                              8.9      9.2      9.5      9.8     10.1     47.4
Total                                                                                                                     93.0     28.4    29.3      30.1      31.0   211.9
\a 2 computers, one printer, ondulators, one photocopier, one fax
\b desks, chairs (including for meeting), file cabinets
\c support services, short term services, etc
9,
co :3
00
o X
Fh
4/3/973:59 PM



Republic of Senegal
Endemic Disease Control Project
Components Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(FCFA '000)                       (USS'000)             Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Endemic Diseases
Operational Activities                   760,050.0  1,058,450.0  1,818,500.0    1,520.1    2,116.9  3,637.0       58      24
Monitoring & Evaluation                  353,250.0    133,750.0   487,000.0     706.5     267.5       974.0       27       6
Subtotal Endemic Diseases                 1,113,300.0  1,192,200.0  2,305,500.0    2,226.6   2,384.4    4,611.0     52      30
B. Management Info System
System Development                        95,500.0  1,144,500.0  1,240,000.0    191.0   2,289.0    2,480.0        92      16
Monitoring and Evaluation                264,500.0    125,500.0    390,000.0    529.0     251.0       780.0       32       5
Subtotal Management Info System            360,000.0  1,270,000.0  1,630,000.0    720.0   2,540.0     3,260.0       78      21
C. Institutional Strengthening
SNGE central level                       817,000.0  1,088,000.0  1,905,000.0    1,634.0   2,176.0   3,810.0       57      25
SNGE Regions                             862,362.5    793,387.5  1,655,750.0    1,724.7    1,586.8    3,311.5     48      22
Project operation                         21,462.5     72,037.5    93,500.0      42.9     144.1       187.0       77       1
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening      1,700,825.0  1,953,425.0  3,654,250.0    3,401.7    3,906.9    7,308.5    53      48
Total BASELINE COSTS                      3,174,125.0  4,415,625.0  7,589,750.0    6,348.3    8,831.3    15,179.5   58      100
Physical Contingencies                   212,046.9    276,778.1    488,825.0    424.1     553.6       977.7       57       6
Price Contingencies                      198,100.0    202,325.0    400,425.0    396.2     404.7       800.9      51        5
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                         3,584,271.9  4,894,728.1  8,479,000.0    7,168.5    9,789.5    16,958.0   58      112
o X
Fh
3D
4131974:04 PM



118
Annex 12
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS & DATA IN PROJECT FILE
Nouvelles Orientations de la Politique de Sante et de l'Action Sociale, Ministere de la
Sante Publique et de l'Action Sociale, juin 1995.
Projet de Reseau Informatique, Mazars & Guerard, Ministere de la Sante Publique et
de I'Action Sociale; avril 1996.
Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme, Ministere de la Sante Publique et
de I'Action Sociale, janvier 1996.
Etude de Prevalence des Bilharzioses Humaines au Senegal, Ministere de la Sante
Publique et de l'Action Sociale, mars 1996.
Analyse Institutionnelle du Service National des Grandes Endemies, Ministere de la
Sante Publique et de l'Action Sociale, janvier 1997.












IMAGING
Report No.:         16459   SE
Type:     SAR



