                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 30277

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-29510 TF-29434)

                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.8 MILLION (US$14.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT )

                             TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                   SENEGAL

                                    FOR AN

                       ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT




                                December 14, 2004




Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 1997)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Francs
                                     1000 CFAF = US$ 2
                                          US$ 1 = 500

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1 - December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR  Country Portfolio Performance Review
DAGE  Direction de l'Administration Générale et de l'Equipement (Administration and Equipment
      Directorate)
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DHSP  Direction de l'Hygiène et de la Santé Publique (Hygiene and Public Health Directorate)
EDCP  Endemic Disease Control Project
EU    European Union
GoS   Government of Senegal
HIPC  Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HMIS  Health Management Information System
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Association
IEC   Information, Education, and Communication
IMCI  Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IHSDP Integrated Health Sector Development Program
JICA  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MoH   Ministry of Health (used as the unique acronym for the various titles for the Ministry throughout
      the project's life)
MOP   Memorandum of the President
MTR   Mid-Term Review
OCP   Onchocerciasis Control Program
OED   Operations Evaluation Department
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PRSC  Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSR   Project Status Report
RBM   Roll Back Malaria
QSA   Quality of Supervision Assessment
SAR   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR   Special Drawing Rights
SGE   Service des Grandes Endémies (Regional Endemic Diseases Service)

SNGE  Service National des Grandes Endémies (National Endemic Diseases Service)
SP     Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine (an anti-malarial drug)
TTL    Task Team Leader
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
USAID  United States Agency for International Development
WHO    World Health Organisation



                                 Vice President:     Kobind T. Nankani
                               Country Director      Madani M. Tall
                                 Sector Manager      Alexandre V. Abrantes
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         David Evans

                                          SENEGAL
                               Endemic Disease Control Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 31

Project ID: P041567                                                  Project Name: Endemic Disease Control Project
Team Leader: Aissatou Diack                                          TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Endemic Disease Control Project                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-29510; TF-29434
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (93%); Central government administration (7%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Health system performance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/17/1996                                     Effective: 08/29/1997                08/01/1997
     Appraisal: 02/07/1997                                         MTR: 09/01/1999                  06/01/2001
      Approval: 05/08/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL/MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SOCIAL
                                           ACTION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             David Evans                                    Yves Genevier
ICR Primary Author:             David Evans; Claire Voltaire


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the project was to support the Government in its efforts to alleviate the
burden of endemic and epidemic diseases on the Senegalese population, with, in particular, a reduction of
the burden of three targeted diseases: malaria, schistosomiasis, and onchocerciasis. To achieve this, the
following specific strategies or objectives were agreed upon in the Memorandum of the President (MOP):
(i) to reorganize the National Endemic Diseases Service (SNGE); (ii) to reinforce staff capacity in
designing, managing and monitoring disease control programs at each level of the health pyramid; (iii) to
improve research; (iv) to develop a computerized Health Management Information System (HMIS) with an
epidemiological surveillance and epidemic alert information system; and (v) to develop the connectivity
between peripheral and central levels, as well as with national and international scientific institutions.
Implicit in these objectives was improved coordination within the SNGE of the vertical disease programs,
which were functioning largely independently with donor support.

The project's global objective was consistent both with Government of Senegal (GoS) strategy, expressed
in the document Nouvelles Orientations de la Politique de Santé et de l'Action Sociale (1995) and the
Sub-sector Policy Letter, and with the 1995 IDA Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Report No.
13909-SE). Both the GoS and the International Development Association (IDA) placed an emphasis on the
development of human capital, to which a reduced burden of epidemic and endemic disease would
contribute. The three targeted diseases were also important health sector issues for Senegal. Analytical
work had highlighted the health risks from dams and irrigation infrastructure constructed on the Senegal
River Basin, and the high prevalence of malaria and urinary schistosomiasis, combined with Senegal's first
epidemic of intestinal schistosomiasis, reinforced the need for mitigation measures. The objectives of the
Endemic Disease Control Project (EDCP) were also consistent with IDA's strategy of developing
communicable disease control programs in Africa, following successful implementation in other regions.

The development of the EDCP overlapped with the preparation of the Integrated Health Sector
Development Program (IHSDP), which went to the Board four months after the EDCP. The strategy of
using a project design to focus on endemic disease control concurrent with the IHSDP's programmatic
approach was justified because endemic disease programs required targeted support to compensate for the
SNGE's weak political capacity to attract resources from programmatic funding within the MoH. The risk
of strengthening the endemic disease control service in relative isolation from the health sector was
recognized and it was intended to integrate the EDCP into the IHSDP once the latter was operational.
However, efforts to ensure that the design of the EDCP was complementary to the IHSDP at the
operational level were inadequate. The ways in which the EDCP's objectives were expected to contribute
to and to fit within the GoS's broader sector strategy, supported by the IHSDP, were not clearly addressed.
This contributed to a poor understanding of the relationship between the two operations by both GoS and
IDA staff, with negative consequences for implementation.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
1. Malaria, Schistosomiasis and Onchocerciasis Control Activities (US$4.61 million). This
component was to support:
a. the development of a new operational and managerial organization at peripheral levels, including: (i)
training staff in case management, (ii) carrying out information and education campaigns, (iii) launching
mass treatment or prevention campaigns, and (iv) implementation of selective vector control measures;



                                                     - 2 -

b. the strengthening of central, regional and district capacities to monitor and to analyze data related to
malaria, schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis; and
c. operational research and evaluation.

To this end, the project was to finance the procurement and distribution of bed nets, drugs and consumables
to carry out the assessments and programs, the costs of training and of education campaigns, consultant
services for studies and operational research, and equipment, furniture and operational costs for the SNGE
and the Regional Endemic Diseases Services (SGEs).

2. Health Management Information System (HMIS) (US$3.26 million). This component aimed at
implementing a national computerized network between the district, regional and central levels of the MoH
and at building capacities to monitor, to evaluate and to improve utilization of the HMIS.

To do this, the project was to finance the acquisition of computers and software, training of staff,
consultant services, dissemination seminars and workshops, and incremental costs of the network.

3. National Endemic Diseases Service (SNGE) Institutional Strengthening (US$7.31 million). This
component included:
a. the development of a highly competent SNGE through the regrouping of scattered central staff, team
building workshops, in-service training, organization of national control programs for endemic diseases,
delivery of information campaigns and regular meetings with decentralized staff, and the realization of
burden of disease and economic analyses to assist planning;
b. the development of regional and district capacities to implement and to manage endemic and epidemic
disease surveillance and control activities through the integration of SGE activities with medical region
activities, staff training, and financial support for supervision and information, education and
communication (IEC) activities and studies; and
c. support to project management.

To this end, the project was to finance rehabilitation of the state-owned SNGE building and SGE offices,
equipment and furniture for DHSP, DAGE and SGE offices, vehicles for SNGE, DHSP and SGEs, the
costs of staff training, local and international consultant services for carrying out studies and for project
management, and incremental operating costs for project management.

Design assessment. Although the EDCP addressed an important health priority in Senegal and its overall
goal was consistent with GoS and IDA policy, its design was considered unsatisfactory because of
weaknesses at the micro-level. The components did not take adequate account of the Borrower's
circumstances. The HMIS component, by focusing strongly on installing a national computer network,
was incomplete in scope and excessively technologically demanding given the Senegalese context. The
endemic disease control component, whilst technically correct, included a large operational research
program and diverse interventions over a short time-frame; this required a stronger coordination ability
than could be immediately provided by the SNGE, whose capacity was very weak. Alternatives which
could have been considered were strengthening the SNGE prior to launching the full scope of disease
control activities or focusing on disease control in a narrow, vertical sense to address the key problems
rapidly. Finally, although an overlapping project and program design in the same sector should be
complementary, the design of the EDCP failed to ensure operational complementarity with the IHSDP.
The HMIS was isolated within the framework of endemic disease control, despite its relevance to the
overall health sector and the planned construction of separate SGE offices and appointment of directors for
endemic disease control in the regions was inconsistent with the move toward the integration of endemic
disease control with general medical services (attempts to correct this design fault were made during


                                                       - 3 -

implementation).

3.4 Revised Components:
The project's components were not formally revised, but several changes were made over the life of the
project:
(i) support to training of health care workers in the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI)
program was added as part of the malaria control sub-component;
(ii) epidemic preparedness, following epidemics of meningitis, cholera and yellow fever were added to the
HMIS component; and
(iii) the renovation of a building to provide a common SNGE office was abandoned in favor of
construction of a new Ministry of Health (MoH) headquarters aimed at uniting all departments based in
Dakar (for which GoS was to finance approximately 50% of the cost).

Renegotiation of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for these changes was not done as these new
activities were considered to fall within the components' scope as defined at negotiations: training of case
management of malaria was integrated into an existing program; epidemic preparedness fell within
epidemiological surveillance and response activities linked to the health information component; and the
decision to build a headquarters for all MoH departments was considered consistent with both the EDCP's
spirit of aiming to house all endemic and epidemic disease programs in one structure and with the goals of
the IHSDP.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
It should be noted that, whilst the 2002 Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) commented that "the
design [of the project] appeared to be sound", the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) team had the
opportunity to examine the design in greater detail and rated quality at entry as unsatisfactory, based on
the considerations listed below. It should be noted that, during the review of the draft ICR, several
reviewers commented that the design should be considered highly unsatisfactory whilst others felt that it
could be rated marginally satisfactory. The debate focused on the overlap of the EDCP and IHSDP, the
failure to ensure operational integration of the two, and the acceptability, at least in principle, of the
combined project and program design. Whilst agreeing that the preparation of a simultaneous project and
program design made sense, the ICR team concluded that the design's failure to address operational
synergies between the EDCP and the IHSDP was one of several factors supporting an unsatisfactory rating
for quality at entry.

The main reasons for this unsatisfactory rating are:

Internal design weaknesses. As noted above, the design of the components did not take sufficient account
of the Borrower's circumstances and the EDCP's overall design did not adequately address operational
complementarity with the IHSDP. In addition, the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework was very
weak, with the key outcome indicators identified being very difficult to measure in the Senegalese context
and no effort being made to ensure the availability of baseline data for indicators.

Dialogue during preparation. The IDA team failed to place the dialogue with the client within the context
of the IHSDP and efforts to ensure broader support to the health sector policy of Senegal, largely as the
result of poor coordination between the IDA teams preparing the EDCP and IHSDP. Antagonism and
weak communication between the two TTL's contributed to poor alignment of supposedly complementary
components and to insufficient planning for the operational integration of the two operations.

Dialogue with donors. Although donors were involved in discussions during project preparation, the Bank



                                                      - 4 -

failed to account for donor misgivings regarding the technical complexity of the HMIS component, thereby
limiting their involvement in its subsequent development, and failed to develop a clear understanding for
donor collaboration during the EDCP's implementation.

Phasing and articulation of activities. The project's components were not appropriately linked, making
the need to implement control activities for the targeted diseases and the introduction of a complex HMIS
dependent upon a relatively slow process of institutional strengthening and reform. The project could have
defined a clearer interface with the IHSDP during the early operations phase or a simpler project could
have been developed to address urgent endemic disease priorities.

Project readiness. While the technical preparation of the endemic disease control activities was thorough
and ambitious, insufficient attention was given to the readiness of the institutional strengthening
components and to implementation arrangements. This preparation did not take into account the health
sector reorganization in progress and overlooked linkages with the IHSDP. In addition, ownership of the
HMIS component by MoH had not been achieved.

Risk analysis. The risks identified at appraisal were incomplete, including only: (i) acceptability by the
general health services of a reinforced SNGE; (ii) sustainability of project activities at peripheral levels;
and (iii) capacity of donors to coordinate efforts effectively. Mitigating measures tended to rely upon
reforms introduced by the IHSDP, but slow implementation of the IHSDP was not itself identified as a risk.
Conversely, the weak institutional capacity of the MoH, difficulty in attracting staff to the regions, and the
acceptability of decentralization measures were identified as risks in the IHSDP, but were overlooked in the
EDCP despite their importance to its success.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives is rated unsatisfactory since the contribution of the project to improvements in
the GoS's efforts to alleviate endemic and epidemic disease is small (despite six and a half years of
implementation), is far below the potential contribution of the project's resources, and remains fragile.

Although the project's final objective of reducing the burden of the targeted diseases on the Senegalese
population is still relevant to GoS and IDA policy, choice of ambiguous indicators, the absence of an M&E
plan, and incomplete baseline and follow-up studies make objective assessment of impact difficult. Given
this difficulty, the data in Annex 1 suggest that malaria morbidity remained constant and schistosomiasis
prevalence in school children increased over the life of the project. In contrast, there was an important
reduction in the prevalence of onchocerciasis. Although an impact on malaria and schistosomiasis
indicators may be detected only after project closure, even with strong project performance, the ICR team
concluded that this was unlikely given the incomplete implementation of most activities. In addition to
considerations of low efficacy, the project's achievement of objectives was rated unsatisfactory on grounds
of low efficiency since it only achieved an attenuated impact, compared with expectations at preparation,
despite 95% credit disbursement.

The GoS end-of-project report's focus on inputs, rather than outcomes, led to a more positive assessment
and reported, in particular, a better execution of the malaria and schistosomiasis sub-components than the
onchocerciasis sub-component. The ICR team agreed that the project benefited from some important
inputs and achieved some of its planned outputs. Under the first component, the design and partial
implementation of disease control strategies and operational plans improved the visibility of these diseases,
thereby helping to establish a basis for future activities. The construction under the third component of



                                                      - 5 -

new MoH headquarters, and an SGE office close to each medical region office, should improve working
conditions of MoH staff. The MoH's pragmatic approach of considering the SGE offices simply as
additional office space partially offset the design fault of building separate endemic diseases service offices
whilst GoS was promoting service integration.

However, most acquired inputs did not effectively translate into outcomes. This was due to the
procurement of much key equipment only in the final year of the project, combined with inadequate
development within the EDCP of the institutional and implementation framework to use these inputs to
achieve outcomes. The impact under the first component was small, as activities were either only partially
completed or not able to be financed under the IDA credit owing to implementation delays. The second
component cannot be considered to have yet had any impact, since the HMIS was developed without broad
MoH ownership and is still to become operational. The impact of the third component was also small,
since construction was completed but the team- and institution-building aspects remain unaddressed.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Malaria, Schistosomiasis and Onchocerciasis Control Activities.
This component is rated unsatisfactory. Although the extent to which outputs were achieved varied by
component and by disease, with strongest outputs for the malaria program, the overall capacity to plan and
to manage control activities for the three targeted diseases was not significantly strengthened and the
widespread implementation of disease-control activities at community level, to reach beneficiaries, was not
achieved.

Malaria Control. Benefiting from technical support from the Roll Back Malaria program (WHO/RBM),
the malaria control sub-component successfully reached some of its goals. A situational analysis of
malaria resulted in the design of a national strategic plan through a participatory process that mobilized
partners; progress was made in revising treatment guidelines following the results of resistance studies,
with the recent introduction of combination treatment and training of health care workers in its prescription;
some social mobilization activities were undertaken; and regulatory reforms removed taxes on insecticide
treated bed nets.

Other outputs were partially achieved and their impact will rely on subsequent implementation. A bed net
market study was carried out. Although 200,000 bed nets and a large quantity of drugs (SP) were acquired
near the end of the project, the bed nets need to be distributed and the intermittent treatment protocol of
pregnant women with SP needs to be made operational. A coherent national bed net pricing and
distribution policy is yet to be finalized. The sub-component did not achieve a significant improvement in
community participation in malaria control activities and the development of guidelines for
community-based initiatives is required to scale up successful pilot initiatives. The development of a sound
information base and M&E system to guide malaria policy was not achieved. A study of the
epidemiological profile of malaria was started only in 2003 and remained half completed at the project's
end; all other studies planned under the IDA credit were cancelled. Notably, annual resistance studies were
completed with USAID funding.

The ICR team noted the preparation and partial implementation of a malaria control program, but
concluded that the achievement of the sub-component is unsatisfactory overall as activities have not
reached the beneficiaries in a systematic and sustained manner. However, effective implementation may be
subsequently achieved owing to the solid preparatory work undertaken in the later years of the project
combined with significant Global Fund financing for 2003-2006.

Schistosomiasis Control. This sub-component did not reach its goal, despite having achieved some



                                                      - 6 -

outputs. Project funds were used to develop a strategic plan, distributed to partners, and to conduct a
baseline prevalence survey in 2003 amongst school children in most affected areas; to produce training
tools and to train health personnel, teachers and agriculture guides; and to organize an awareness day in
affected areas with production of IEC materials. Vector control, by niclosamide use in snail-affected water
areas, was started and a mass treatment round of school children was undertaken in high prevalence areas
in 2004.

Whilst no prevalence data are available following the treatment round, an impact is unlikely to be present
as the program has only completed one round of treatment and has yet to include the 25% of Senegalese
children not in school and to implement treatment activities in medium and low prevalence areas. In
addition, the evidence base for policy development and program monitoring is undeveloped as most
research was not completed, including the prevalence survey (which has yet to be done in two areas), and
the morbidity study.

Onchocerciasis Control. This sub-component largely achieved its objective by expanding annual mass
treatment of affected villages, completing community prevalence surveys for monitoring program
effectiveness, training health and community workers, and organizing a technical workshop to review
progress and planning. Whilst several planned activities were not realized, the onchocerciasis control
sub-component managed to have a real impact on beneficiaries: the number of treated villages increased
from 471 in 1996 to 606 in 2003, and community prevalence fell from 9.5% to 0.2% over the same time
period. Since this success built upon the Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP), already well established
in the region with multi-donor support, and since the EDCP only contributed approximately US$55,000 to
this sub-component, the ICR team noted that the EDCP's contribution was probably modest. This is
consistent with the assessment of this sub-component by GoS in its end-of-project report, which noted the
relatively low completion rate of planned activities.

Integrated Management of Childhood Illness. The target of this sub-component was partially achieved,
as training of trainers and university professors was completed at the national level but only 8 of 16
subsequent training sessions of regional health staff were completed.

Component 2 ­ Health Management Information System.
This component is rated unsatisfactory because the HMIS was not operational at project closure and,
considering the system's design, time will be needed to adapt it to operations and to develop it into a widely
accepted management tool. On the positive side, computer equipment was installed in all health districts
and medical regions and staff from all districts, except Dakar, were trained in the software ("Application
Santé"). However, as this was achieved in the last year of the project, implementation remained
incomplete: the system was yet to be put into use at the time of ICR preparation and the GoS had no
contracts for hardware maintenance or software support from external sources.

As the HMIS was not developed through a wide consultative process within the MoH, ownership from
program coordinators was limited. The Application Santé includes a limited number of indicators mainly
relevant to management of health structures at the district level and individual health sector programs
continue to collect their own data. In particular, the Application Santé has not yet been adequately adapted
for routine epidemiological surveillance despite the inclusion of a limited epidemic alert system based on
case reporting from hospitals only, excluding the peripheral health services.

Under epidemic surveillance and response development, the IDA credit was used to finance vaccination
campaigns and supervision activities during the Yellow Fever epidemic of 2001 and a national epidemic
surveillance and response plan was developed in 2003. This plan can provide the basis for improved


                                                     - 7 -

management of epidemic disease in the future but dissemination and implementation is yet to be
undertaken. A national survey of technical capacity in laboratories and the development of a standardized
laboratory procedures manual and monitoring form were also achieved.

Component 3 ­ SNGE Institutional Strengthening.
This component is rated unsatisfactory, since integration of the endemic diseases programs remains weak.
At central level, the project failed to increase coordination between programs or to pool human resources.
Each program is still run as an independent entity with little interaction between teams. There is
competition for external resources and the attention given to a program largely depends on its capacity to
attract external resources, rather than on health priorities per se. No overall strategy has been developed to
identify areas of potential interactions between programs or to unify the support given at the operational
level (coordination of training schedules, joint communication activities and treatment distribution), so as to
promote an efficient use of funds available to infectious diseases. While the construction of new MoH
headquarters has permitted the regrouping of most departments, not all disease units have moved into the
new building (tuberculosis, leprosy, HIV, malaria and reproductive health remain outside) and funds have
been earmarked by the Global Fund to build separate malaria program offices. At regional level, SGE
offices were built in all regions adjacent to regional medical headquarters. At the district level, the
development of annual action plans with community representatives has promoted priority setting according
to the perceived value of activities at the beneficiary level, and integrated supervision has contributed to a
more efficient use of district resources. However, whilst a certain level of integration at the operational
level is automatic since the same staff are responsible for implementing all health care activities, the extent
of integration depends upon district leadership and could be significantly improved by the integration of
activities during planning at the central and regional levels. The institutional assessment of the capacity of
districts to manage endemic diseases, which would have systematically addressed these issues, was not
undertaken.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic analysis was included in the SAR. Although the ICR team did not attempt to repeat the
analysis using project results, economic aspects are discussed in Annex 8.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's impact on institutional strengthening, defined as improvement in the MoH's ability to make
effective use of its human and financial resources, is rated modest. Improvements were made in the
capacities of individual programs to plan and to manage activities as well as in the physical working
environment. Staff capacity to monitor epidemic diseases at both the central and peripheral levels was
strengthened through training and the introduction of new protocols, and an environment for improved
coordination was developed through the construction of the MoH headquarters and regional SGE offices.
The programs concerned by the project also developed concrete strategies to help to secure resources in the
future. However, these positive achievements did not have a substantial impact because of inadequate
development of a framework which promoted the most efficient use of resources. Examples include the
HMIS's focus on equipment and software without a clear strategy for using the information generated, and
the endemic disease community awareness days which probably had less impact than sustained campaigns
operated by community groups.




                                                       - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Bank performance. The Bank's performance during preparation and early supervision was a contributing
factor to the weak performance of the project. Although the preparatory work on the disease control
component was technically sound, problems in the project were allowed to develop as the result of failure to
ensure that the final design was one for which GoS felt true ownership and failure to recognize the
operational challenges of coordinating the project and program approaches. These problems continued
because supervision teams did not use a realistic assessment of performance, bottlenecks, and risks as the
basis for negotiating remedial action plans, particularly at the mid-term review (MTR). It should be noted
that improved IDA supervision in the latter years of the project contributed to a strong improvement in
implementation of activities.

Mixed donor support. Strong donor support on technical issues for the three priority endemic diseases,
such as WHO/RBM for malaria and schistosomiasis, the OCP for onchocerciasis, USAID for malaria
resistance studies, and United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) for bed nets and malaria prophylaxis
during pregnancy, helped to guide implementation of disease-specific activities. By contrast, donors'
ongoing reliance on vertical programs led to weaker than expected support to and coordination of the
process of integrating endemic disease control programs. In addition, poor donor support for the
computerized HMIS component from the outset contributed to the isolation of HMIS development within
the MoH, in contradiction of the system's goal of coordinating data collection across various MoH
programs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Changes of Ministers. The GoS went through important institutional changes during the project's life,
notably seven changes of Minister of Health. This impeded a stable reorganization of the MoH and,
consequently, the efficient implementation of the project.

Inadequate procurement and financial management. Procurement and financial management procedures
in Senegal were not conducive to efficient project implementation. As concluded by the procurement
assessment in 2003, "Accountability is diluted, the process lacks both transparency and a posteriori
control, and the preference of direct contracting often resulted in higher prices and risks of corruption."
Significant problems in the provision of funds to implementing departments and slow procurement and
financial management procedures seriously delayed implementation. These issues were not unique to the
health sector, being related to the delay in implementing reforms of public resource management.

Staffing issues. Although being addressed by the IHSDP, shortages of skilled health personnel and
dissatisfaction of existing staff with working conditions, salaries, and career options contributed to a
sub-optimal implementation effort.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Failure to define relationship of the project with sector policy and with the IHSDP. The parallel
implementation of the EDCP and the IHSDP without a clear plan for operational integration of the two led
to misunderstandings about the project's fit within the broader sector policy. This contributed to
undermining commitment to the project's objectives and approach, which might have been avoided if the
EDCP had been either merged with the IHSDP sooner and more completely, or restructured when problems
were recognized.




                                                     - 9 -

Unclear responsibility for the project. In principle, the merging of implementation responsibilities for the
EDCP with the IHSDP should have improved coordination of the two operations and rationalized MoH
management inputs. However, the EDCP's integration into the IHSDP in 1999 was incomplete, since the
project coordinator position was removed without clear reallocation of leadership. Procurement and
financial management were transferred to a specialized MoH unit (DAGE) in 2000, and project monitoring
responsibilities were transferred to another unit (CAS) dealing with all donor-funded activities in 2001.
Technical management remained scattered without clear leadership, considering the large number of units
and people involved in project management. It should be noted that joint Bank supervision missions of both
the EDCP and IHSDP until 2002 contributed to this by strongly focusing on IHSDP implementation at the
expense of the EDCP.

Inadequate human resource management. The MoH was unable to appoint adequate staff responsible
for endemic disease control activities at the regional level and to replace staff who retired or resigned,
making the decentralization of responsibility for endemic disease control difficult.

Weak accountability mechanisms. Throughout the project life, important delays were encountered
because problems were not resolved through clear arbitration and active monitoring of results
(disbursement trends, respect of agreed deadlines). A results-oriented work system with incentives and
sanctions instruments would have permitted the project staff to identify and to address these problems more
effectively.

Delayed decisions regarding civil works. The civil works component was significantly delayed by a
dispute between the MoH and another Ministry regarding rights to a building identified as the new SNGE
headquarters, followed by delays in identifying a site for the construction of a new MoH office once it was
decided to abandon building a SNGE office in favor of a MoH headquarters.

Inadequate project monitoring. Since the project began to collect indicator information only towards the
end of implementation, the need to revise the agreed project indicators to a set of measurable and
meaningful indicators was not identified and addressed. This meant that the opportunity to modify the
project according to performance in reaching established goals had been missed.

Unstable institutional context. There were four changes in the structure of the MoH during the project's
life, which slowed implementation by failing to provide a stable institutional context.

Failure to establish relevant links between government sectors and with the private sector. Missed
opportunities for support from other sectors, such as not developing the HMIS within the context of the
computerized information system overseen by the GoS's Direction de l'Information de l'Etat or failing to
include traditional healers in malaria training, reduced the strength and efficiency of implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
In March 1997, project costs were estimated at US$17 million, including US$0.8 million in price
contingencies and US$1 million in physical contingencies. The GoS was to contribute US$0.9 million
equivalent, while the remainder was to be co-financed by IDA (US$14.9 million), the European Union
(EU), the Government of France, UNICEF, and WHO. Information on the project detailed costs structure
(i.e. unit costs per training day, number of trainees, staff-months of consulting services, and unit costs) for
each component could not be traced in either IDA or MoH archives. An analysis of project costs which
would compare initial plans with actual costs is therefore not possible. However, information is available
on major line items such as the construction of MoH headquarters (US$5.1 million), bringing total project
costs to US$16.4.million, with an actual contribution of the GoS of about US$2.5 million, or 15% of total


                                                     - 10 -

project costs, compared with the 5% initially anticipated. Co-financing was transformed into parallel
financing and no information is available on donors' contributions. At closing date, which occurred 18
months after the initial date, disbursements amounted to SDR 7.1 million (65% disbursement) and were
estimated to reach US$14.2 million (95% disbursement) by closing of accounts on October 31, 2004.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated as unlikely, although marginally so, as the small impact of the project
remains vulnerable to changes in the political, institutional and financing environment owing to incomplete
development of institutional resilience to such changes. The judgment of sustainability depends upon a
project's capacity to maintain the flow of benefits in the face of changes in the operating environment (the
approach used by OED in assessing sustainability), and this was considered modest at several levels.
Endemic disease control programs continue to depend upon segmented programs at the central level and, as
such, remain vulnerable to changes in political relationships within the institution or in staffing. Further,
the ongoing influence of donor funding for specific disease projects limits the MoH's ability to set disease
priorities; in this context, despite GoS's stated intention to maintain schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis
funding, these programs appear fragile to changes in external interests. The failure to build endemic
disease control programming into the regional medical services has left the project's outputs vulnerable to
altered priorities or altered management at the central level and to changes in the working environment in
the periphery. This is reinforced by the absence of meaningful community networks focusing on endemic
diseases, with the notable exception of community-based treatment teams in onchocerciasis endemic areas.

However, the ICR team decided to qualify the sustainability rating as marginally unlikely since the project
brought some improved capacity to respond to change. Firstly, the three endemic disease programs
developed strategies to help to attract resources should circumstances alter. Some EDCP activities can be
continued under the IHSDP until December 2004, and the inclusion of the HMIS and the national
epidemiological plan as prior actions for the PRSC1 is an incentive to prioritize their implementation.
From an institutional perspective, credit closure may allow MoH to increase ownership of endemic disease
programs by resolving ambiguous coordination responsibilities. It was also felt that the risks facing the
project, whilst still significant, may have decreased to a small degree towards the project's closure, noting
that the MoH had declared its commitment to endemic disease control activities, that the MoH was again
redefining its departments and their responsibilities, and that short-term financing was secured for some
activities (§6.2). As noted below, the PRSC preparation has contributed to these improvements.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Senegal's capacity to respond to endemic and epidemic disease at the time of ICR preparation depends
upon a set of vertical programs for which strategic and operational plans had been developed at the central
level and partially implemented under the EDCP and with other funds; some key inputs for the ongoing
implementation of these plans have been acquired, and some funding for future implementation was set
through donors or government budget. The negotiations for the PRSC contributed to achieving the
transition of selected priorities of the EDCP to regular operations: the most recent institutional organization
of the MoH was approved and six regional deputy medical directors and the director of the NHIS were
appointed after EDCP closure.

The MoH has promised to commit government funds for implementation of certain components of the
operational plans (onchocerciasis, some schistosomiasis activities), and so far high cost items, such as
equipment and drugs, have been financed by the EDCP with relatively lower financial cost activities, such
as field work and supervision, remaining. The IHSDP has indicated that the training of health care workers



                                                      - 11 -

in IMCI, the national malaria epidemiological survey, and the early implementation of the HMIS will be
financed under the IHSDP, and financing from the Global Fund is currently available for malaria activities.
However, a prioritization exercise and identification of additional funding sources needs to be carried out,
in collaboration with donors in the sector, to ensure that the essential, incomplete activities (Annex 8,
Appendix 1) are implemented and that outputs and outcomes are monitored within the MoH's National
Health Plan.

Some of the key steps necessary to ensure transition include:
· The MoH organizational structure and teams need to be stabilized to ensure continuity and clear
definition of responsibilities;
· An effort should be made at central level to coordinate endemic disease activities (comprehensive training
modules based on the needs of the target health staff rather than on individual programs, joint
community-based IEC activities, identification of complementary activities such as joint community
surveys) to maximize impact of resources and to facilitate implementation at operational level;
· Resource allocation to the districts should support the integrated delivery of services, rather than
disconnected activities funded by individual programs;
· The 200,000 impregnated bed nets need to be delivered to the target population and a national policy on
bed net pricing and subsidies finalized to ensure sustainability and to harmonize public sector activities
with private sector initiatives in place;
· The anti-malarials purchased for intermittent treatment of pregnant women need to be distributed and
their use monitored;
· The schistosomiasis prevalence survey in Dakar and Thiès and implementation of the schistosomiasis
morbidity survey should be completed;
· The schistosomiasis mass treatment should be extended to include children not in school in endemic
zones, and implementation of treatment strategies in meso- and low-endemic zones implemented as planned;
· IEC activities should focus on the regular provision of information and behavior change messages at the
community level, to build on the high profile disease-awareness days already completed;
· The HMIS needs to be made operational, including ensuring arrangements for maintenance of the
hardware and adaptation of the Application Santé, with feedback of data analysis and utilization to all
levels of the health pyramid; and
· An assessment of the impact of training and IEC activities should be carried out to guide modification of
these activities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. While support to the technical preparation of the malaria, schistosomiasis and
onchocerciasis control component was thorough, it is unclear whether the component was fully owned by
the MoH. The basis of the unsatisfactory rating is the lack of operational coherence with the GoS's policy
of integration of different health programs across the sector; the underestimating of risks; and the
insufficient attention given to implementation arrangements, in particular to the definition of the project
management unit's position within the MoH. Preparation of the HMIS component was handled by
consultants selected by the Bank with no transparency, was financed by grant funds, and did not meet the
needs of the MoH. It is also likely that the use of Bank resources during preparation was inefficient, since
two different Bank teams prepared the EDCP and the IHSDP without coordination.

7.2 Supervision:
Unsatisfactory. Bank performance until September 2001 is rated highly unsatisfactory. Though missions



                                                    - 12 -

occurred regularly and the team skills mix seemed appropriate, they did not develop action plans on which
to base their review of progress and did not monitor project indicators. No agreement was sought with the
MoH on key corrective actions. The team consistently underestimated risks, was excessively optimistic on
the likely resolution of persistent issues, and failed to take past record into account. No attention was given
to environmental safeguard compliance, despite the use of pesticides, and the GoS's pesticide management
plan was lost and consequently not reviewed by the Bank until late in implementation. Internal reporting
(Project Status Reports ­ PSRs) was very poor and ratings were frequently inconsistent, without
involvement from management despite the credit's low disbursement performance. Similarly, after
postponing the MTR several times, it was merged with and overshadowed by the MTR of the IHSDP, so
that no in-depth review of the project or use of credit funds was made. The project was not formally
restructured, despite the serious institutional conflict arising from the unsuccessful integration of the EDCP
with the IHSDP and the emerging blockages related to vested interests within the MoH.

Starting in 2002, systematic efforts were made to redress the situation and the Bank performance for that
period is rated satisfactory. Supervision became thorough and problems were addressed systematically,
with active support from both sector and country management. Key corrective actions were identified and
timeframes established during missions, and Country Portfolio Performance Reviews (CPPR) and country
procurement and financial assessments were used to support the project's efforts. Internal reporting was
more rigorous and the inadequacy of the M&E design was recognized, leading to the development of proxy
indicators for key outcomes. Noting these changes, the QSA5 in 2002 commended the supervision team
and management on the improvement, noting only that the S ratings in PSRs could be better justified. A
decision meeting to consider the extension of the project noted the implementation difficulties, but decided
to continue the project under this revitalized supervision owing to major, ongoing concerns about endemic
disease in the Senegal River Basin which made the closure of the project difficult to defend at the time.

Balancing the first four years of highly unsatisfactory supervision with the final two and a half years of
satisfactory supervision, the rating for Bank supervision is unsatisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating for Bank performance is therefore unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Unsatisfactory. The perceived urgent need to secure additional resources to strengthen endemic disease
control capacities explains the hurried preparation of the project. The importance of ensuring the internal
coherence of the project's activities with that of the IHSDP was underestimated and insufficient time was
spent on building consensus on the project's objectives and on establishing an appropriate institutional set
up for their implementation. In particular, the HMIS component should have been the responsibility of the
relevant unit in the Directorate of Health rather than that of the SNGE, whose mandate was limited to
endemic disease management.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. Implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory since the project only started real
implementation three years after effectiveness, as a result of discontinuity in project management and
unclear accountability for execution. Many activities, such as the schistosomiasis morbidity survey, most
malaria surveys, and expanded schistosomiasis treatment to include out-of-school children, remained
incomplete or were cancelled due to poor financial management and lack of reactivity to resolve problems
and to monitor disbursements.




                                                       - 13 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory. During the last two years of the project, significant efforts were made to improve
disbursements and to complete the planned activities. However, as the expected outcomes of the project,
with the exception of the onchocerciasis sub-component, have not yet been reached (reduction in the burden
of malaria and schistosomiasis, implementation of the HMIS, strengthening Senegal's capacity to manage
endemic disease) because of incomplete implementation, the MoH's performance is considered
unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The conventional wisdom that vertical programs are more likely to achieve results, at least in the
short term, is not always the case. The negotiations of the PRSC were able to achieve several
institutional changes which were central to the EDCP's success, but which were not achieved under the
EDCP itself. This is probably related to the nature of the changes, as institutional issues may be better
addressed under a programmatic approach.

Strong technical preparation of a project is not sufficient to achieve results. Whilst the technical
preparation of the project was sound, this did not ensure a satisfactory outcome since inadequate attention
was paid to the operational integration of the EDCP into the IHSDP.

The benefits from financing construction of headquarters for Ministries or other government agencies
should be carefully assessed. The new MoH headquarters did not have maximum impact on improving
the integration of endemic disease services, as the team building and institutional framework aspects were
not simultaneously implemented during the EDCP and some endemic disease units were not included in the
new building. This highlights the need to review financing requests for the construction of headquarters by
the Bank.

Strong ownership of projects by the regions and the districts requires effective decentralization of
responsibility for management of activities and of finances. Implementation of the EDCP was slowed by
weak decentralization of decision making and budget control for endemic disease control activities to the
operational levels of the health pyramid.

In a project with significant institutional bottlenecks, alternative service delivery mechanisms could
improve project performance. Noting the success of the OCP's community-based onchocerciasis
treatment teams, a similar approach could have been considered for the distribution of malaria bed nets or
for schistosomiasis treatment.

IDA should be hesitant in preparing simultaneous projects in the same sector unless strong
coordination exists between the two teams, the projects' objectives and implementation strategies are
complementary, and there is strong, balanced government leadership for both projects. The risk
analysis should take into account the interdependency of the two projects, and greater care should be given
to adapting the complexity of projects to the absorptive capacity of the sector ministry.

Consensus and clarity in the institutional set up of projects are essential to success. This is illustrated
by the three-year delay in project start up owing to the weak engagement of concerned MoH departments.
Similarly, in the development of the HMIS, poor involvement of relevant departments and of providers and



                                                     - 14 -

users of data, as well as the absence of a formal consensus-building and validation exercise around the
conceptual framework, resulted in long delays and duplication of efforts as parallel systems continued to
operate.

When the same borrower agencies have responsibilities for multiple IDA credits, it is particularly
important to ensure that the lines of responsibility for project management are clearly defined and do
not contradict or weaken existing structures. A clear accountability matrix, including problem
resolution mechanisms and conflict arbitration, should be developed for each project so as to avoid delays
and passivity, as illustrated in the first three years of the EDCP. When institutional conflict becomes
evident, the borrower and IDA should focus on rapid resolution of the problem through formal
restructuring of the project, if required.

Effective supervision with strong support from the country office can significantly improve a lagging
project's performance. Close to 50% of the total credit was disbursed in the last year of the project. This
rapid, late disbursement illustrates the capacity for greater performance within the MoH and the impact of
proactive supervision from the MoH and IDA (including close involvement of IDA country and sector
management).

Disbursement is not a reliable indicator of project success. High disbursement can simply reflect the
acquisition of costly inputs, but impact may not be attained because other less expensive, but necessary,
inputs are lacking. This is highlighted by the late purchase of anti-malarials for pregnant women and of
bed nets, which significantly increased disbursement, but which will only have an impact when distribution
and use are achieved.

Indicators for project monitoring should be collected prospectively as an integral part of project
preparation and supervision. The late, retrospective collection of indicator data in the project missed the
opportunity to focus the project teams on the final outcomes and to adapt project implementation to
problems identified in a timely manner.

As most of the lessons learned from this project are not new, many could have been anticipated during
project preparation and supervision.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower prepared an end-of-project report (Annex 8), in which the Borrower's own assessment of
project performance and constraints is presented. After reviewing the ICR, the Borrower commented that
the ICR's findings represented a realistic assessment of the EDCP; no further comments were made.

(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments on the ICR were received from UNICEF, the European Union (EU), or WHO, which were
the agencies included at appraisal as cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
USAID representatives noted that the decision to make the bed nets purchased with the IDA credit
available to pregnant women at FCFA 1,000 was taken in parallel to the strategy developed at an MoH
consensus meeting of providing a FCFA 2,500 bed net subsidy for the vulnerable groups of pregnant
women and children under five. As the price of FCFA 1,000 applied only to IDA-funded bed nets, USAID
noted that their partners are continuing to apply the targeted subsidy of FCFA 2,500, which they believe is
an appropriate policy for Senegal to promote sustainability in the long run. This is an issue to which the



                                                       - 15 -

Bank will pay further attention in the context of overall health sector dialogue.

10. Additional Information

IHSDP Status. The IHSDP supported by Credit No. 2985-SE was developed and implemented in parallel
with the EDCP with the following objectives: (i) to improve the management and financial viability of the
public health system; (ii) to improve access to quality health care for the vast majority of the underserved
and vulnerable groups in urban and rural settings; and (iii) to contribute to fertility decline and to reduce
the high population growth rate by improving the management and delivery of reproductive health services.
The SDR 35.9 million credit became effective on February 2, 1998 and its closing date is scheduled for
December 31, 2004. Disbursements to date amount to SDR 26,410,724; implementation was rated
unsatisfactory by IDA supervision team from December 2003 until being returned to satisfactory in
October 2004.




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Most indicators for the project as outlined in the PAD and agreed in the DCA were not available at
baseline, mid-term or end of project. This was due to the fact that:

1. many of the initial indicators could not be measured in a meaningful way in Senegal (e.g. "reduction of
infant mortality attributable to malaria", which would require community surveys with effective verbal
autopsy tools to identify accurately malaria as the cause of death);
2. no attempt was made to collect baseline data for the indicators established at appraisal and data
collection mechanisms were not established;
3. indicators were used by neither GoS nor IDA supervision teams to monitor project progress until the
end of the project, and so there was no incentive to collect this information;
4. strike action by health personnel, who withheld health service activity data for three years early in the
EDCP, contributed to the impression that data collection was not possible. It should be noted that most of
the agreed indicators did not require access to this type of data, however.

The IDA supervision team developed proxy indicators for key, but unmeasured, outcome indicators in 2003
and the ICR team used these proxies. They are listed in the table below. Unfortunately, the other
indicators for which data are not available require population-based surveys which include specific
questions (e.g. "proportion of caretakers...who can correctly recognize signs and symptoms of fever..."),
but such surveys, although planned under the EDCP, were not undertaken.

      * Indicators selected for the Development Credit Agreement.



                                                                                    Baseline    At end of project    At end of project
                                                                                                    Target            Estimated value
 Outcome indicators
 Alleviate the burden of endemic and epidemic
 diseases.
 (a) Reduction of infant mortality attributable to                               Not available 25% reduction      Not available
 malaria.*
            Proxy: Proportion of consultations in health                              30%                                   32%
 structures diagnosed as malaria
 Data from WHO, National Malaria Control program
            Proxy: Proportion of deaths occurring in                                  34%                                   30%
 hospitals due to malaria
 Data from WHO, National Malaria Control program
 (b) Reduction of school-age children morbidity                                   Not available  90% reduction         Not available
 attributable to urinary schistosomiasis *
            Proxy : Prevalence of urinary schistosomiasis                            19.5%                                  22%
 amongst school-age children
 Baseline data from National Schistosomiasis Control program, 1996. Ndir O
 et al. Enquête nationale sur las bilharziose au Sénégal, Université Cheikh
 Anta Diop, 1996.
 End project data from National Schistosomiasis Control program, 2003.
 Preliminary statistics from prevalence study, in which data analysis is ongoing.
 Note that this study was done before the start of mass treatment campaigns of
 school children in hyperendemic areas.
 (c) No new case of riverblindness in the program area
 *
            Proxy: Onchocerciasis prevalence                                          2.5%                                  0.2%
 Baseline data from National Onchocerciasis Control program, 1999.
 End project data from National Onchocerciasis Control program, 2003.




                                                                                 - 17 -

 Output indicators
  To reinforce national capacities to control endemic
  and epidemic diseases
Percentage of suspected cases receiving good quality
care *
          malaria                                           Not available  60%          Not available
Only available end project data presented by National
Malaria Control program are from a recent survey done
within the program de Renforcement de Nutrition and have
not been used here owing to methodological issues limiting
their application to malaria, in agreement with project
management and the Bank supervision team.
          schistosomiasis                                   Not available  60%          Not available
          onchocerciasis                                    Not available  60%          Not available
Percentage of households with mosquito nets for children 1.67% (1999)      40%          Not available
under 5
Percentage of highly schistosoma infected villages with no Not available                Not available
transmission
Percentage of health facilities with on-time complete       Not available  60%            90% SIG.
SIG monthly mortality and morbidity reports and
feedback (paper system).*
Number of communications exchanged over the
electronic message system included in the network *
          Proxy: Number of health facilities providing      Not applicable                  None
complete monthly reports on morbidity and mortality
using the computerized SIG network.
Effectiveness of the SNGE in its efforts to develop team Not available                  Not available
work and resource rationalization in implementing its
activities at central and regional levels.*
Demonstration of feasibility of integrating surveillance
and control activities of endemic disease such as
malaria, schistosomiasis & onchocerciasis within the
peripheral health services and community activities.
The proportion of health facilites with at least one        Not available               Not available
practicing clinical health worker trained in integrated
management of malaria, schistosomiasis and
onchocerciasis and who can correctly state standards for
diagnosis, treatment and referral, particularly with
suspected cases of malaria and schistosomiasis.
The proportion of caretakers having received IEC            Not available               Not available
messages who can correctly recognize signs and symptoms
of fever and state that fever in child requires prompt
treatment, state an appropriate treatment protocol for
uncomplicated malaria, and know where to seek
appropriate additional care when the condition does not
improve or worsens.
The proportion of pregnant women who know that they canNot available                    Not available
and should prevent and treat malaria and anemia during
pregnancy.
Effective outbreak prevention system                                              National strategy
                                                                                  document developed
Operational research and prevalence studies on: a) bed                            For part (d) 100%
nets, b) organization of impregnation and possible system                         Data from National
for cost recovery, c) identification of villages and hamlets                      Onchocerciasis Control
with high transmission of urinary schistosomiasis, and d)                         program.
proportion of endemic villages with identified and trained
CHWs responsible for ivermectin distribution.



                                                             - 18 -

          Proxy: Studies completed for targeted diseases
                    malaria                                                   Study on epidemiological
                                                                              profile half completed;
                                                                              others not done.
                    schistosomiasis                                           National prevalence study
                                                                              almost completed; others
                                                                              not done.
                    onchocerciasis                                            Prevalence survey
                                                                              completed annually.
Integrated, flexible & highly communicative SIG
Implementation of the computerized network and                                Equipment distributed and
development of the revised SIG                                                software developed; not
                                                                              yet operational.
Proportion of health workers, supervisors and planners                        Trainings in use of
who have received training in the use of the revised SIG                      software completed for all
and information for decision making                                           relevant health staff
Setting up and number of effective meetings of the Health                     0
Information Council                                                           Few meetings were held at
                                                                              the beginning of the
                                                                              project but abandoned
                                                                              following delays in
                                                                              starting HMIS component.
Institutional strengthening of the SNGE
SNGE functional Organizational chart developed and                            Institutional structure of
approved by Cabinet by September 1997                                         departments involved in
                                                                              endemic diseases within
                                                                              the Directorate of Health
                                                                              is not yet finalized.
Personnel functioning according to approved                                   As above.
organizational chart by March 98
Facilities renovated according to specifications by PY2                       Construction of MoH
                                                                              headquarters and
                                                                              construction/renovation of
                                                                              regional endemic disease
                                                                              control services are
                                                                              complete.
National Control Progams revised or developed for all                         National strategies
endemic diseases. Guidelines or "Conduits à tenir" before                     developed for malaria and
diseases with high risk of epidemics.                                         schistosomiasis;
                                                                              onchocerciasis strategy
                                                                              refined; national epidemic
                                                                              response strategy defined.
Training and supervision programs in surveillance and                         Training for three targeted
control activities designed, piloted, reviewed and                            diseases completed;
implemented by PY2                                                            numbers of trainees not
                                                                              available.
Additional malaria indicators from National Malaria
Control Program
Percentage of probable malaria cases receiving quality   36%                  Low
treatment in the household                                                    Given the high resistance
                                                                              to chloroquine, which is
                                                                              the treatment at household
                                                                              level, it is assumed that
                                                                              effective coverage is low.
Percentage of pregnant women receiving and using         Not available 50%           Not available
prophylaxis against malaria




                                                         - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         Appraisal         Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                         Estimate            Estimate             Appraisal
                            Component                                   US$ million         US$ million
A. Malaria, Schistosomiasis and Onchocerciasis Control                        4.60                 5.90                 128
B. Health Information System                                                  3.30                 2.80                  84
C. Institutional Strengthening                                                7.30                 8.50                 116

Total Baseline Cost                                                         15.20                 17.20
  Physical Contingencies                                                      1.00
  Price Contingencies                                                         0.80
                              Total Project Costs                           17.00                 17.20
                       Total Financing Required                             17.00                 17.20
Costs in US$ were calculated by assuming a uniform disbursement pattern for all components and using average annual
exchange rates.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                         Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB             NCB                        2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
1. Works                                   1.67              1.17                 0.00               0.00            2.84
                                          (1.55)            (1.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)          (2.55)
2. Goods                                   3.69              0.19                 0.19               0.00            4.07
                                          (3.69)            (0.17)                (0.19)            (0.00)          (4.05)
3. Services                                0.00              0.00                 3.99               0.93            4.92
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)                (3.99)            (0.00)          (3.99)
4. Incremental operating                   0.00              0.00                 2.03               0.43            2.46
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)                (1.91)            (0.00)          (1.91)
5. Training                                0.00              0.00                 2.01               0.29            2.30
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)                (2.01)            (0.00)          (2.01)
6. Miscellaneous - IEC                     0.00              0.00                 0.37               0.00            0.37
                                          (0.00)            (0.00)                (0.37)            (0.00)          (0.37)
    Total                                  5.36              1.36                 8.59               1.65            16.96
                                          (5.24)            (1.17)                (8.47)            (0.00)          (14.88)
Figures in parentheses represent IDA financing.




                                                         - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         1
                                                               Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB                     2         N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                    Other
   1. Works                                     1.30               1.70               0.00             1.90             4.90
                                               (1.30)             (1.50)             (0.00)          (0.00)            (2.80)
   2. Goods                                     4.70               0.50               0.90             0.20             6.30
                                               (4.70)             (0.50)             (0.90)          (0.00)            (6.10)
   3. Services                                  0.00               0.00               2.70             0.00             2.70
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.50)          (0.00)            (2.50)
   4. Incremental operating                     0.00               0.00               1.10             0.20             1.30
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.00)          (0.00)            (1.00)
   5. Training                                  0.00               0.00               1.90             0.00             1.90
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.80)          (0.00)            (1.80)
   6. Miscellaneous - IEC                       0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00             0.00
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                                    6.00               2.20               6.60             2.30             17.10
                                               (6.00)             (2.00)             (6.20)          (0.00)            (14.20)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                     Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  IDA           Govt.         CoF.        IDA          Govt.      CoF.         IDA     Govt.  CoF.
Malaria, schistosomiasis                                                  5.90
and onchocerciasis control
Health information system                                                 2.80
Institutional strengthening                                               6.10          3.00
Total costs                      14.90          0.90          1.20       14.20          3.00                  95.3     333.3   0.0

   At appraisal, planned contribution of other donors was as follows: EU US$0.3 million, FAC US$0.7 million, WHO US$0.1
   million, and UNICEF US$0.1 million. Con-financing was replaced by parallel financing for which no financial data are
   available. Breakdown of IDA financing by component was not included in the SAR or Memorandum of the President.




                                                                - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis included in the SAR restricted itself to general comments, noting that insufficient
data from Senegal were available to permit detailed quantitative analysis. Its key points related to the
malaria control program, which it considered to be the main component of the EDCP, noting that: (i)
malaria was known to have significant costs, estimated in Senegal to be 2% of GNP; (ii) provision of
infectious disease control services by GoS, as supported by the project, was in general warranted because
of positive externalities, reduction in poverty, and promotion of equity; and (iii) the prevention component
of the EDCP, particularly through community and household based initiatives, would additionally reduce
indirect costs. Institutional reform and the HMIS were also considered likely to generate considerable
efficiencies owing to a more rational use of resources and elimination of generation of redundant
information by different programs.

The ICR team did not attempt to undertake a retrospective economic evaluation of the EDCP, but reached
some general conclusions:

Efficacy. Project efficacy in reaching the overall objective of supporting GoS to reduce the burden of the
three targeted diseases was low. Although available data were very limited, health facility data indicate no
meaningful change in malaria morbidity or mortality over the project period; schistosomiasis survey data
suggested a small increase in prevalence; but onchocerciasis did experience a significant fall in prevalence.
On balance, malaria and schistosomiasis were considered to be the more important components owing to
their higher baseline prevalences. Whilst some objective subtypes (Annex 5) were reached, notably in
construction, or partially attained, such as some improvement in institutional development and the
elaboration of disease control strategies, these should be seen as inputs into the overall objective. The poor
efficacy is certainly related to incomplete implementation, as not all inputs included in work strategies and
considered necessary to produce an impact, were obtained.

Efficiency. Technical efficiency for the project overall was considered to be low, as the ICR team noted a
very small impact despite 95% disbursement of project funds. This compares unfavorably with the impact
expected at appraisal for the same amount of funds, assuming that these expectations, which were
negotiated at the national level and peer reviewed within the Bank, were reasonable. The four-year delay
before serious implementation contributed to this, as the opportunity cost of unused funds over this time
period should be included in judgments of efficiency. Persistent redundancies in the use of resources, such
as the failure to integrate key activities of the different endemic disease control programs (trainings,
surveys, supervision) and the collation of the same data by different programs, also highlight inefficiencies
in the project.

Allocative efficiency can also be considered suboptimal, as a large proportion of funds was used to acquire
equipment and drugs (bed nets, anti-malarials) without sufficient allocation of resources to ensuring
cheaper but effective, and necessary, implementation mechanisms (distribution campaigns, community
involvement). Considering the cost, and probably high opportunity cost, of the HMIS component,
allocative efficiency across components was also questionable. However, targeting of certain interventions
to groups at high risk (e.g. bed nets and treatment to pregnant women) can be expected to lead to some
improvements in efficiency.

Equity and poverty impact. Although activities were incompletely implemented and total impact was
small, the EDCP did address equity through targeting of resources to areas in need. This is obvious for
onchocerciasis, where only endemic areas benefited from project funds, and was also the case for
schistosomiasis as prevalence surveys were used to target mass treatment. Targeting of prevention and



                                                        - 22 -

treatment to high risk groups will also improve equity.

As noted in the SAR's economic analysis, 80% of poor households were living in rural areas. Whilst
implementation was incomplete, activities which were undertaken tended to be done across the country and
so can be reasonably expected to have distributed resources also to poor, rural areas. There are two
caveats: significant resources were used at the central level, for the MoH headquarters, and in large
regional towns for the SGE offices. It may take time for the benefits of this resource use to reach the poor.
In addition, equal distribution of resources does not address the question of allocating additional resources
to the poor. This was partly ensured because the prevalence of schistosomiasis and onchocerciasis was
already higher in rural areas, but better targeting to the poor may have been achieved within an integrated
planning process in which districts and regions had greater responsibility for endemic disease
programming.

Future financing needs. Operation and maintenance of buildings constructed within the project will
require future financing, although no longer paying rent for office space will lead to significant savings.
Large recurrent costs will be generated by the HMIS, which requires a high degree of maintenance of
hardware and software and will be complicated by the fact that the computers are spread across the
country. However, under component one, project funds were used to purchase expensive inputs (drugs, bed
nets) and the remaining activities to ensure a benefit from these inputs, such as distribution in the
community or through health centers, are relatively inexpensive.




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
 Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                     Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)             Implementation Development
                     Month/Year       Count                 Specialty                            Progress         Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               June 1995                           1     1 PHS
               Feb 1996                            3     1 PHS, 1 PO, 1 malaria spec.
               March 1996                          1     1 PHS
               April 1996                          3     1 PHS, 1 PO, 1 malaria spec.
               June 1996                           4     1 PHS, 1 impl., 1 PO, 1
                                                         arch/proc.
               Dec 1996                            2     1 PHS, 1 PO

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Dec 1996                            4     2 PHS, 1 PO, 1 arch/proc.

 Supervision
               Nov 1997                             1    1 arch/impl                                                 HS
               Feb 1998                             3    1 PHS, 1 PO, 1 arch.                       S                S
               Oct 1998                                  ?                                          S                U
               June 1999                            2    2 PHS                                      S                U
               Nov 1999                             5    3 PHS, 1 PO, 1 impl/arch.                  S                S
               Oct 2000                             3    1 PHS, 1 impl, 1 fin                       S                S
               Jan 2001                             4    1 EcH, 1 fin, 1 proc, 1 PHS                S                S
               June 2001                            3    1 EcH, 1 Ec, 1 PHS
               Nov 2001                             4    2 PHS, 1 Ec, 1 EcH                         S                U
               Jan 2002                                  ?                                          S                S
               May 2002                             6    2 PHS, 1 proc, 1 fin, 1 HRSpec, 1          S                S
                                                         OA
               Nov 2002                             5    2 PHS, 1 proc, 1 fin, 1 OA                 S                S
               April 2003                           4    1 PHS, 1 proc, 1 fin, 1 OA                 S                S
               Oct 2003                             5    2 PHS, 1 proc, 1 fin, 1 OA                 U                U
               Feb 2004                             7    1 PHS, 2 proc, 1 fin, 1 envH, 2            U                U
                                                         OA
               June 2004                            6    1 PHS, 1 impl, 1 proc, 1 fin, 2            U                U
                                                         OA

 ICR
               Sept 2004                           2      1 PHS, 1 impl                             U                U

From November 1999 to 2002, the project was treated as part of IHSDP by Bank supervision missions. The mid-term review
in November 2001 was absorbed into that of the IHSDP.

Key:
OA       Operations assistant           Arch Architect                             Ec Economist
EcH      Health economist               EnvH Environmental health specialist       Fin Financial management specialist
HRSpec Human resources specialist       Impl Implementation specialist             PSH Public health specialist
PO       Project officer                Proc Procurement specialist




                                                          - 24 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                 No. Staff weeks                         US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                25                                  143
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            incl. above                           incl. above
  Supervision                                              101                                  252
  ICR                                                        6                                    10
  Total                                                      -                                      -
Staff weeks and costs prior to 1998 are not available; the above figures for identification/preparation plus appraisal/negotiation
were estimated from aide-mémoires and reflect only time spent on mission. As these costs are a significant
under-representation of total costs, no totals have been given.




                                                              - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

IDA project documents
Aide-mémoires of all missions (1995-2004).

Country Assistance Strategy, Senegal (1995).

Country Assistance Strategy, Senegal (1999).

Development Credit Agreement (1997).

Extension of Credit Closing Date memoranda and correspondence (2001).

Implementation Completion Report, Human Resources Development Project I (Credit 2255-SN).
(1997).

Memorandum of the President (1997).

Minutes of, and memoranda and correspondence pertaining to, the Pre-Appraisal Review Meeting
(1996).

Project Completion Report, Rural Health Project (Credit 1310-SE) (1993).

Project Supervision Reports (1997-2004).

Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA5) Summary Assessment Sheet (2001).

Revue Conjointe de Performance de Portefeuille-Pays (CPPR) (2003).

Staff Appraisal Report (1997).

GoS and other documents
S. Aidara. Synthèse des rapports de formation des utilisateurs sur l'Application Santé (2004).

Banque mondiale et Banque africaine de développement. Rapport analytique du système de
passation des marchés au Sénégal (2003).

Cellule de lutte contre la Malnutrition. Enquête sur les connaissances, pratiques et couverture des
zones d'interventions du district de Tamabacounda (2003).

L. Diawara. Rapport de la mission dévaluation épidémiologique de l'onchocercose dans 15
villages des bassins de la Gambie et de la Falémé dans les districts sanitaires de Kédougou et
Vélingara (2003).

Direction des Etudes, de la Recherche et de la Formation (Ministère de la Santé). Enquête
Sénégalaise sur les Indicateurs de Santé (1999).


                                              - 28 -

Division des Statistiques Démographiques (Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan).
Enquête Démographique et de Santé au Sénégal (EDS-III) (1997).

D. Doucouré. Contrôle du paludisme et de la bilharziose ­ Pesticides et Environnement,
Rapport préliminaire (2004).

O. Gaye. Réévaluation de l'épidémiologie du paludisme au Sénégal ­ Rapport d'étape (2003).

Ministère de la Santé. Plan National de Développement Sanitaire (PNDS)-Phase 2 : 2004-2008
(2004).

Ministère de la Santé, de l'Hygiène et de la Prévention. Projet de gestion du projet de lutte
contre les maladies endémique (PLCME) (2003).

Ministère de la Santé Publique et de l'Action Sociale. Plan National de Développement Sanitaire
et Social (1997).

Ministère de la Santé et de la Prévention. Guide technique pour la surveillance intégrée de la
maladie et la riposte au Sénégal (2003).

Ministère de la Santé et de la Prévention. Plan Stratégique pour la Surveillance
Epidémiologique et la Riposte au Sénégal 2004-2008 (2003).

N. Nachbar. Senegal PNLP/UNICEF/NetMark Target Subsidy Pilot Program for Insecticide
treated Nets (2003) ­ Report on Findings and Recommendations (2004).

O. Ndir, O. Faye., Y. Dieng et S. Diallo. Enquête Nationale sur la Bilharziose au Sénégal
(1996).

O. Ndir.    Compte rendu des activités des journées nationales de mobilisation contre les
bilharzioses, Sant-Louis, 23 février 2004 et Richard Toll, 24-25 février 2004 (2004).

Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme. Rapport de Mise en oeuvre ­ Plan
d'Exécution / Crédit IDA (2003).

Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme. Atelier national de consensus sur la politique
de traitement antipaludique au Sénégal ­ Rapport Final, Synthèse et Recommandations (2003).

Programme National de Lutte contre le Paludisme. Mission consultative de faire reculer le
paludisme au Sénégal : actions essentielles pour soutenir l'atteinte des objectifs d'Abuja (2003).

République du Sénégal. Décret portant organisation du Ministère de la Santé, de l'hygiène et de
la prévention (1998-2004).




                                               - 29 -

SANIPLAN. Programme de Développement Intégré de la Santé (PDIS) ­ Mid-Term Review of
PDIS (2001).

UNICEF. Rapport de l'Enquête sur les objectifs de la fin de décennie sur l'enfance
(MICS-II-2000) (2000).




                                          - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

The borrower prepared an End-of-Project Report for Credit 2951-SE (PLCME), included in Annex 8, and
a physical execution report which can be found in the project archives. The main conclusions of the report
are summarized in English below.

Project impact:
The EDCP made possible the following:
Programme performance. The elaboration of a strategic epidemiological surveillance plan and its
integration in the overall health system; the development of an appropriate institutional set-up translated
into a draft decree defining the organization of the MoH; the definition of a national programme and
operational plan against schistosomiasis; improved clarity of the financing for programmes from different
sources owing to the development of operational plans for the three targeted diseases.
Capacity reinforcement. The construction of MOH headquarters, and provision of computer equipment,
to improve coordination between units, and to reduce the cost of renting space; the construction of
epidemiological services offices within the medical regions which will facilitate the integration of
surveillance activities into the regions' work agenda; the provision of equipment for the HMIS which
enabled the testing of the software "Application Santé"; and the achievement of a needs assessment to
specify staff skills, training requirements, and adjustments to be made to the information tools.

Project implementation issues:
The project faced several institutional, human resources, financial management and implementation
constraints as follows:
Coordination. Assigning SNGE the responsibility for project management created inherent institutional
difficulties, since the Director of the Health Department, of which SNGE was a part, was not involved in
the project.
Unstable project management. The project had two different coordinators between 1997 and 2000 and
remained with no coordinator until project closing. Responsibility for management of the project
components was also diluted due to the institutional changes.
Human resources issues. Attracting skilled staff in the regions was very difficult.
Financial management. Some of the activities were not achieved due to difficulties in accessing resources
resulting from (i) the low level of the special account which prevented the creation of secondary accounts in
the medical regions; (ii) IDA documentation requirements for reimbursement which were not compatible
with the type of activities financed; and (iii) abnormally slow documentation processing prior to submission
of reimbursement requests.
Insufficient definition of project contents. The details of the investments planned under the project (such
as quantities and type of equipment for the laboratories network), were unknown, thus resulting in delays as
needs had to be defined.
Slow procurement process and weak financial management.
Inadequate terms of reference and contractual arrangement for the HMIS made coordination difficult
as consultants were based in France and resulted in misunderstandings of roles with the project
management unit.

Lessons learned:
Integration of the EDCP into the IHSDP, although anticipated from the onset, was difficult as no
arrangements had been defined with regards to coordination of activities, management of the special
account, and task distribution between the central and regional levels.
Focus on high cost investments may detract attention from lower cost activities which may have a



                                                     - 31 -

greater potential impact on project outcome.
Ownership of projects such as the EDP requires greater involvement from regions and districts in the
management of activities and financial resources.

-------------------------------

République du Sénégal                                                             Septembre 2004
 Ministère de la Santé et de la Prévention Médicale
 Cellule d'appui et de suivi du PNDS

                                           Rapport d'achèvement du
                                           Crédit 2951- SE (PLCME)

Introduction

Le crédit 2951-SE d'un montant de US$ 14,9 millions a été utilisé pour financer le Projet de Lutte Contre
les Maladies Endémiques (PLCME.). L'objectif visé à travers ce projet était le renforcement des capacités
nationales en matière de lutte contre les maladies endémiques et notamment par : (a) l'appui à la lutte contre
le paludisme, les bilharzioses et l'onchocercose ; (b) le développement du réseau télématique d'informations
sanitaires et (c) le renforcement institutionnel du SNGE. Le projet était initialement prévu pour une durée
de 5 ans (1997 ­ 2002). La date de clôture a été par la suite prorogée pour une durée de 18 mois et est
finalement intervenue le 30 juin 2004.
Le présent rapport d'achèvement fait le point sur les principales réalisations du projet, les contraintes et
difficultés rencontrées et les leçons apprises.

Tableau : Répartition du projet par composantes :

Le tableau ci-après récapitule les composantes du projet et le programme d'investissements :



 RECAPITULATIF DU PROJET                                       coût en Millions

                                                                     US$

 1. Lutte contre le Paludisme, la Bilharziose et                    4.61
 l'Onchocercose
 -       Activités opérationnelles                                  ( 3.64)
 -       Activités de suivi et d'évaluation                          ( 0.97)

 2. Système d'information à des fins de gestion                      3.26
 -       Développement et mise en place du système                   (2.48)
 -       Activités de suivi et d'évaluation                           (0.78)

 3. Renforcement Institutionnel du SNGE et de la DS                  7.31
 -       Services centraux du SNGE                                     (3.81)
 -       Services périphériques et régionaux                             (3.31)
 -       Administration du Projet                                       (0.19)




                                                     - 32 -

Conception du projet

Au moment de la conception du projet, le ministère de la santé avait déjà entamé un processus de réflexion
qui avait abouti par la suite " aux nouvelles orientations de la politique de santé et d'action sociale". Parmi
les problèmes identifiés lors de cet exercice, figurait en bonne place le lourd tribut payé du fait du poids de
la morbidité et de la mortalité dues aux maladies endémiques. Cette situation était aggravée par
l'inexistence d'un système de surveillance épidémiologique apte à accompagner les programmes de contrôle
des maladies endémiques. Le SIG qui était en place ne concernait jusque là que les données de routine. On
comprend alors pourquoi l'Etat avait considéré le renforcement des capacités nationales en matière de lutte
contre les maladies endémiques comme une priorité. Le projet fut alors discuté avec le partenaire IDA ce
qui a abouti au PLCME. Un an après le démarrage du PLCME, le Gouvernement a conclu avec l'IDA un
autre accord de crédit pour financer une partie du programme de Développement Intégré (PDIS), projet
sectoriel de plus grande envergure.



Cadre Institutionnel

La gestion du projet relevait initialement de l'unité de coordination mise en place au service national des
grandes endémies dont le chef de service a été nommé coordonnateur national du PLCME. Il était assisté
par un assistant administratif responsable de la passation des marchés et par un comptable. Il était entendu
que le PLCME allait être intégré au PDIS dès la mise en vigueur en 1998. Toutefois, ce n'est qu'à partir de
l'an 2000 que la gestion des activités du PLCME a été totalement intégrée au PDIS. C'est en effet à partir
de cette date que le personnel administratif du projet a intégré la DAGE et que la planification
opérationnelle du PLCME a commencé à se faire en même temps et sous le même format que le PDIS. Il
faut cependant préciser que les deux comptes spéciaux relatifs aux deux projets ont toujours été gérés
séparément ce qui du reste n'a pas posé de problèmes majeurs.
Toutefois la coordination des volets techniques relevait toujours des Directions compétentes à savoir la
Direction de la Santé, pour la lutte contre les Maladies et la Direction des Etudes de la Formation et de la
Recherche pour le SIG.



Résultats du projet

Appui à la lutte contre le paludisme, les bilharzioses et l'onchocercose

La lutte contre le paludisme : L'objectif du programme national de lutte contre le paludisme (PNLP) est de
réduire le poids de la mortalité et de la morbidité attribuables au paludisme. Plus spécifiquement, le PNLP
vise la (i) réduction de 30% de la mortalité attribuée au paludisme, (ii) la réduction de 20 % de la morbidité
attribuable au paludisme et (iii) la réduction de 50 % des formes graves de paludisme chez la femme
enceinte.

Les activités de renforcement de la lutte contre le paludisme appuyées par le projet ont d'abord consisté au
recyclage de tous le personnel de santé impliqué dans la prise en charge des cas de paludisme à tous les
échelons de la pyramide. Il faut rappeler que sur les 1,5 Milliards FCFA qui ont été programmes, 1,2
Milliards CFA ont été utilisés pour l'achat de moustiquaires imprégnées qui ont été entièrement livrées.
C'est dans ce cadre également que la sulfadoxine-pyriméthamine (SP) a été achetée à hauteur de 110
Millions de francs CFA pour permettre la mise en oeuvre de la nouvelle stratégie de traitement du paludisme
devant la chimiorésistance à la chloroquine. En fin de compte, toutes les dépenses initialement prévues pour


                                                      - 33 -

le PNLP ont été exécutées en dehors du véhicule de supervision. La raison de ce manquement tient au moins
à deux facteurs : le retard apporté au DAO y afférent et les problèmes de procédure concernant les
véhicules notamment liés à l'autorisation préalable de la primature. Au total, le volet paludisme a connu un
taux d'exécution très satisfaisant.
A la fin du projet, la morbidité liée au paludisme est d'environ 31% et la mortalité de 32%.
L'accès au traitement est estimé à 50% et la couverture moustiquaires imprégnées à 20%. Il est cependant
difficile d'apprécier l'évolution des taux de morbidité et de mortalité liés à la maladie du fait de l'absence
des données de base à la conception du projet.

La lutte contre les bilharzioses : Au plan de la lutte contre les bilharzioses, les objectifs visés étaient de i)
réduire la morbidité due à la Bilharziose uro-génitale et intestinale, ii) diminuer la transmission des
bilharzioses dans les zones de transmission saisonnières, iii) prévenir l'extension des bilharzioses dans les
zones à risque . Toutes les activités prévues dans le plan de renforcement ont été quasiment exécutées . Des
enquêtes d'évaluation sur la prévalence de la bilharziose dans les écoles ont été organisées dans toutes les
régions sauf pour Dakar et Thiès. Le matériel IEC a été testé et les formations des personnels de santé du
niveau opérationnel assurées. La campagne de traitement mollucicide et la surveillance des mares ainsi que
les activités de sensibilisation sur la maladie ont été aussi effectuées. Le programme avait en outre identifié
des activités complémentaires qui n'ont pas pu être finalement exécutées faute de financement.
La prévalence globale de la Bilharziose urinaire est de 21,8 % pour l'ensemble du pays tandis que la
prévalence globale de la Bilharziose intestinale est estimée à 24,8 % dans les deux régions de transmission à
savoir Saint Louis et Louga. Les plus forts taux de prévalence de la bilharziose urinaire sont enregistrés
dans le district de Podor (48,8 %), de Bambey et de Fatick 40% . Pour ce qui est de la bilharziose
intestinale les plus forts taux de prévalence sont enregistrés à Dagana 51,4 % et à Richard Toll 43,5 %.
Dans ces différentes zones, le nombre des personnes traitées à la fin du Projet s'élèvent à 15 000 ; tous, des
enfants en âge scolaire     (694.000 comprimés de Praziquantel ont été ainsi distribués).

La lutte contre l'onchocercose : les objectifs de cette composante sont : i) Traiter par l'Ivermectine sous
Directive Communautaire ( T.I.D.C) tous les villages éligibles et au moins 65% des personnes dans chaque
communauté villageoise, ii) procéder à des évaluations épidémiologiques annuelles à travers un réseau de
73 villages, iii) mener des études sur l'efficacité des traitements par l'ivermectine au niveau des populations
. Le volet renforcement de la lutte contre l'onchocercose a connu moins de réalisations. A titre d'exemple,
l'enquête CAP, l'élaboration de matériels IEC, la formation décentralisée et l'étude d'impact de
l'IvermectineR sur la transmission de l'onchocercose n'ont pu être réalisées à la date de clôture du projet
(30 Juin 2004). Il faut noter cependant que les équipements (bicyclettes, matériels consommables labo et
divers matériels d'évaluation) prévus pour ce programme et pris en compte dans le DAO "Equipements
labo et consommables" cité précédemment ont été finalement acquis. A la fin du projet, le nombre de
villages traités a régulièrement augmenté pour dépasser l'objectif initialement prévu de 73 villages. En
même temps, l'évaluation de la prévalence de l'onchocercose a été faite régulièrement de 1996 a 2003 et a
indiqué la baisse progressive de 9,53% en 1996 à 0,23% en 2003 , niveau pour lequel le risque de cécité est
nul.

Autres activités appuyées par le PLCME : En plus de la lutte contre le paludisme, la bilharziose et
l'onchocercose, le crédit 2951-SE a apporté un appui au Réseau National de Laboratoires (RNL) et à la
formation en prise en charge intégrée des maladies de l'enfant. Le choix porté sur ces deux activités
s'explique par leur effet synergique et leur caractère intégrateur pour la lutte contre la maladie.

La formation des districts des régions de Dakar, Diourbel , St Louis et Matam en PCIME a été financée par
le crédit 2951-SE. Cela a été rendue possible par la contractualisation de cette activité avec les enseignants
du département de pédiatrie de l'université Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar. Le retard apporté au démarrage de


                                                       - 34 -

cette formation n'a pas permis cependant d'atteindre l'objectif qui était d'étendre la PCIME à l'ensemble
des districts du pays (seuls 15 districts sur 53 étaient couverts au démarrage de cette formation.). En effet,
seulement 50% du programme de formation a été réalisé à la date de clôture du projet (30 Juin 2004). Le
gouvernement a cependant sollicité et obtenu de l'IDA que le reste de la formation soit pris en charge dans
le crédit 2985-SE .

La mise en place du Réseau National de Laboratoires vise à doter les laboratoires d'un instrument de
coordination qui leur permet de mieux jouer leur rôle dans la surveillance épidémiologique. C'est pourquoi
le plan d'action du RNL appuyé par le PLCME visait plus particulièrement le renforcement des capacités
par (i) l'harmonisation des techniques, (ii) la formation des personnels de labo sur la base de modules
intégrés, (iii) la supervision formative et (iv) le renforcement des équipements labo. La mise en oeuvre de ce
plan d'action a aussi connu des retards imputables à la difficulté de mobilisation des ressources du
programme. Néanmoins plusieurs activités ont pu être réalisées : enquête situationnelle sur la capacité des
laboratoires, adaptation du guide technique et des manuels de formation en laboratoire, élaboration d'un
manuel de procédures techniques, élaboration de fiches de collecte de données , l'acquisition d'équipements
de laboratoires. L'ensemble des laboratoires des secteurs public et privé ont été associés à ce processus, ce
qui inaugure une nouvelle dynamique dans le renforcement de la coordination entre laboratoires (qui relève
désormais de la compétence du coordonnateur du réseau). C'est à la suite de ce constat que l'autorité a
proposé que le RNL bénéficie d'un statut à la dimension des objectifs qui lui sont fixés. La proposition a
été retenue dans le projet de décret organisant le ministère qui devrait être pris incessamment.

Réorganisation et renforcement de la surveillance épidémiologique

Les objectifs de cette composante sont i) la préparation et la riposte aux épidémies, ii) la préparation d'un
plan stratégique pour la surveillance épidémiologique intégrée.
L'élaboration du document de plan stratégique de surveillance épidémiologique a été cofinancée par l'IDA
(crédit 2951-SE, PLCME) et l'OMS. L'atelier national de validation de ce document a été organisé les 5 et
6 Février 2004. Le système de surveillance épidémiologique proposé à travers ce document tient compte de
l'organisation globale du MSPM notamment au niveau régional. Le Réseau National des laboratoires
(RNL), structure responsabilisée pour la confirmation diagnostique, est une composante essentielle du
système de surveillance épidémiologique et de riposte. Le cadre institutionnel proposé pour rendre
opérationnel le système de surveillance prend en compte la nécessité de coordonner les actions de
surveillance en respectant le cadre global que constitue le SIG. Au niveau central, il est prévu de mettre en
place une cellule chargée de la coordination qui sera logée au sein du Service National de l'Information
Sanitaire (SNIS) prévu pour être rattaché au cabinet.

Appui institutionnel

Les travaux de construction du siège ont pu être achevés avant la clôture du crédit de même que les travaux
du secteur des grandes endémies de St Louis. Le siège du ministère a même été proposé pour faire partie du
programme des inaugurations du Président de la république d'ici Décembre 2004. L'édification du siège du
ministère permet le regroupement des directions et autres services nationaux. Au surplus, le nouveau siège
va abriter le centre informatique, élément essentiel du SIG en général et de la surveillance épidémiologique
en particulier. Par ailleurs, l'intégration des ex services des Grandes Endémies (GE) au sein de la région
médicale participe aussi à créer les conditions favorables à une bonne intégration des activités de
surveillance au niveau régional. Il est vrai que le projet n'a pas permis de former des médecins
épidémiologistes pour doter toutes les régions mais il reste toujours la possibilité de nommer les
responsables des bureaux régionaux chargés de la surveillance épidémiologique. La prise de l'acte
consacrant ces nominations accuse cependant un grand retard lié à l'instabilité institutionnelle connue par le


                                                        - 35 -

ministère de la santé et de la prévention médicale ces cinq dernières années.

Au plan de l'exécution financière

Les décaissements substantiels ont réellement commencé en l'an 2000. Ce retard important accusé dans les
décaissements est dû aux difficultés rencontrées au démarrage du projet (voir plus loin). La construction et
l'équipement des ex secteurs des GE et du siège du ministère qui constituaient la plus grande partie des
investissements n'ont pu être finalisés qu'en fin de projet et même au cours de la période de prorogation
pour ce qui est du siège et de l'ex secteur des GE de St Louis. Le même retard a été accusé pour
l'acquisition du matériel informatique dans le cadre de l'informatisation du SIG. A l'arrivée le taux de
décaissement global devrait tourner au tour de 100%. Les procédures de gestion utilisées sont les mêmes
que celles du PDIS. Le renforcement des capacités de gestion opéré au niveau de la DAGE a largement
profité au PLCME après son intégration au PDIS.

Le rapport de fin de gestion en annexe donne plus de détail sur l'exécution financière composante par
composante.



Suivi et evaluation du projet

Le suivi de la mise en oeuvre du PLCME (avant son intégration dans le PDIS en l'an 2000) se résumait
davantage aux missions de supervision de l'IDA. Dès son intégration au PDIS, les missions de supervision
de l'IDA sont devenues conjointes pour le PDIS et le PLCME. Le suivi de l'état d'avancement de la mise
en oeuvre du PLCME se faisait alors à travers les instances de suivi du PDIS à savoir le Comité Interne de
Suivi (CIS), la Réunion Annuelle Conjointe (RAC), les Missions Conjointes de Supervision mais également
à travers l'évaluation à mi-parcours et l'évaluation finale. Il convient de signaler que le défaut de
disponibilité de données de base suffisantes sur la situation de la morbidité et de la mortalité des maladies
ciblées au démarrage du projet n'a pas facilité la mesure des performances des différents programmes y
afférents.



Impact du projet

Impact sur les performances des programmes de santé ciblés

En premier lieu, le crédit 2951-SE a permis au ministère de la santé de disposer d'un document de plan
stratégique pour la surveillance épidémiologique. Ce document qui sert de cadre de référence à la
surveillance épidémiologique et à la riposte vient combler un vide.
En effet, jusqu'à présent, les sous systèmes de surveillance véritablement fonctionnels concernaient les
maladies prioritaires qui faisaient l'objet de programmes de lutte avec des stratégies qui ne se référaient pas
à un cadre global intégrant le système de santé dans son ensemble.

La mise en oeuvre de ce plan de surveillance épidémiologique est un défi. C'est pourquoi, un cadre
institutionnel approprié a été proposé et pris en compte dans le dernier projet de décret portant organisation
du ministère.

En second lieu, le crédit IDA a permis de formaliser les plans d'opération pour la lutte contre les
bilharzioses et l'érection de cette composante en programme national. Par ailleurs, les plans d'opération,
élaborés pour tous les programmes ciblés, ont permis une plus grande lisibilité des financements provenant


                                                     - 36 -

des différentes sources.

Impact en matière de renforcement des capacités

L'appui institutionnel acquis avec le crédit 2951-SE a permis de construire le siège du ministère de la
santé, ce qui a abouti au regroupement de la majorité des directions et services et de doter le ministère d'un
équipement informatique au niveau de tous les échelons.

En effet, avant le projet, aucune direction ou service national n'était localisé au Building administratif où
était logé le ministère de la santé. La dispersion de ces services rendait difficile la coordination surtout dans
le contexte difficile de la mobilité urbaine que traverse Dakar ces dernières années. De plus, la plupart de
ces directions occupaient des bâtiments en location, ce qui coûtait à l'Etat environ sept (7) millions de
francs CFA par mois.

Au niveau régional, la réalisation d'infrastructures supplémentaires intégrées aux locaux des régions
médicales pour abriter les services des ex secteurs des Grandes Endémies (GE) permettra une meilleure
intégration des activités de surveillance dans l'agenda des activités de la région médicale. Cette intégration
souhaitée depuis l'avènement des soins de santé primaires pourra enfin être réussie. Déjà, la situation des
SGE d'avant PLCME prédominée par le départ massif des agents des GE (seuls 3 secteurs sur 10 étaient
dirigés par un médecin) se corrige progressivement.

L'équipement du SIG qui a permis de tester avec succès l'application santé offre une opportunité pour
rendre le système d'information véritablement fonctionnel. L'analyse des besoins actuels a permis de
préciser le type de personnels supplémentaires, les besoins en formation et les outils à réviser. Le SNIS
devrait relever ces défis en premier lieu.



Contraintes et difficultés rencontrées et mesures prises

Contraintes d'ordre institutionnel

Les difficultés dans la coordination : Le fait que la gestion du PLCME ait été confiée initialement au service
national des grandes endémies entraînait ipso facto des problèmes institutionnels. Le SNGE à l'époque
faisait partie intégrante de la direction de la santé. Le directeur de la santé n'était pas pour autant
responsabilisé. Ce cas de figure est exceptionnel dans l'administration. Il était par conséquent prévisible
qu'il y'ait des dysfonctionnements dans la coordination des activités du projet.

L'instabilité de la direction du projet : le projet a connu deux coordonnateurs entre 1997 et 2000 et est resté
sans coordonnateur de 2001 à sa clôture. Il faut aussi noter une certaine dispersion dans la gestion des
composantes du projet à la faveur des changements institutionnel intervenus avec la création de la direction
de la prévention.

Contraintes liées aux ressources humaines :

La question des ressources humaines a constitué une autre contrainte majeure à la mise en oeuvre du
PLCME. Jusqu'à la fin du projet, les équipes de surveillance épidémiologique n'ont pas pu être mises en
place au niveau de toutes les régions par manque de disponibilité de personnel ayant les compétences
requises. La même insuffisance a été constatée au niveau central pour la gestion du SIG.




                                                       - 37 -

Contraintes d'ordre financier

Certaines activités prévues par le Projet n'ont finalement pas été menées à la clôture du PLCME du fait de
la difficulté de mobilisation des ressources. Il s'agit en particulier d'activités du programme bilharziose,
d'activités de formation complémentaire sur le SIG et d'activités du Réseau National de Laboratoires.
Les contraintes d'exécution sont principalement de deux ordres :

Niveau bas du plafond du compte spécial : la dotation initiale de 300 000 000 FCFA reçue de l'IDA au
compte spécial était très faible par rapport au volume d'activités à financer. Même si on a noté une
irrégularité dans le cycle de mobilisation des fonds (non respect du délai de renouvellement de l'avance au
compte spécial) il n'en demeurait pas moins que la faiblesse du montant de la dotation initiale expliquait en
grande partie la fréquence des ruptures de fonds dans le compte spécial.
Ainsi, sur le premier trimestre 2004, le cumul des demandes de financement reçues (correspondant au
besoin de trésorerie) s'élevait à 504 032 214 FCFA alors qu'au même moment, les disponibilités totales du
compte spécial ne s'élevaient qu'au montant de 134 914 398 FCFA.

Ce faible niveau du plafond du compte spécial a eu pour autre conséquence la difficulté d'ouverture des
comptes d'avance au niveau des régions médicales (à l'instar de ce qui a été fait avec le crédit IDA 2985).

Retard dans la remontée des pièces justificatives : Conformément aux directives de l'IDA, les DRF ne
peuvent être établies que sur la base des dépenses éligibles et pour lesquelles les pièces justificatives des
activités exécutées sont disponibles. Mais cette exigence ne s'accommodait pas avec les types d'activités à
financer par le PLCME: i) activités du niveau périphérique qui posaient surtout un problème de remontée
de pièces justificatives dans les délais, ii) activités de recherche et/ ou d'enquêtes dont la durée moyenne
était de 30 jours, iii) activités sous forme de missions à l'étranger pour la formation ou pour la
participation aux séminaires et rencontres internationaux du personnel. Or, on sait que le personnel, en
retour de mission, a rarement le temps (les premiers jours) de s'occuper d'aspects administratifs comme
l'élaboration des rapports de mission devant accompagner ses pièces justificatives.

Le délai anormalement long de récupération des pièces justificatives correspondant à ces activités explique
la lenteur constatée dans la reconstitution de la dotation initiale (300 000 000 FCFA) et donc dans la
constitution des DRF. Le délai moyen entre la date de décaissement des fonds et la date de justification des
activités tournait ainsi fréquemment autour de 30 jours.

Absence de budgets détaillés dans les plans d'opération

Les libellés des activités des programmes planifiées dans les plans d'opération ne renseignaient pas
suffisamment sur leur nature exacte et sur leur contenu précis. Ainsi, sur la seule base des lignes
budgétaires des plans d'opération, il n'était pas possible de connaître les quantités et les spécifications
techniques pour ce qui est par exemple des équipements et des matériels et consommables de laboratoires et
ainsi enclencher le processus de mobilisation des fonds.

Retard dans le processus de passation de marchés et insuffisance dans la gestion financière du Projet

Les longs délais constatés dans la mise en oeuvre du plan de passation des marchés, dans le processus
d'élaboration des dossiers d'appels Offres, dans l'obtention des avis de non objection et dans l'approbation
des marchés justifiaient en grande partie les faibles taux de décaissement obtenus surtout durant les quatre
premières années d'exécution du projet.
En ce qui concerne la gestion financière, les situations prévisionnelles de décaissement n'étaient pas


                                                         - 38 -

régulièrement disponibles. Ceci a eu pour conséquence de fréquentes ruptures de fonds du compte spécial.

Difficultés liées à la contractualisation avec les consultants H3T

Au démarrage du projet, la contractualisation pour l'élaboration des dossiers d'appels offres avec les
consultants H3Technologies sur le volet mise en oeuvre du SIG avait créée des confusions de rôles avec
l'unité de gestion du projet. En effet, il existait un manque de coordination entre l'unité de gestion et ce
cabinet qui résidait en France .
.

RESUME DES CONTRAINTES ET DES SOLUTIONS ADOPTEES

TYPE CONTRAINTES                                         SOLUTIONS APPORTEES
1) Difficultés dans la coordination du                   Après le constat de l'absence d'un coordonnateur
  projet                                                 du projet,     les chefs de programme ont été
                                                         directement responsabilisés. Cela a coïncidé avec
                                                         l'intégration de l'équipe de gestion à la DAGE
2) Insuffisances des ressources humaines                 Les profils ont été ciblés et les recrutements pour
                                                         le renforcement du SIG et des équipes pour la
                                                         surveillance épidémiologique sont prévus pour
                                                         2005
3) Niveau bas du plafond du compte spécial              Seul le niveau du sous compte a été relevé de 27
                                                        Millions FCFA à 100 Millions FCFA. Le niveau du
                                                        compte spécial n'a pas varié.
4) Retard dans la remontée des pièces                   Cette tâche est dorénavant confiée aux comptables
  justificatives                                        régionaux recrutés par l'IDA
5) Centralisation dans la gestion financière            Le système d'avance justifiable à 60 jours qui a été
                                                        mis en place dans le cadre du crédit 2985 n'a pas
                                                        pu profiter au PLCME à cause de la faiblesse du
                                                        plafond du compte spécial
6) Absence de budgets détaillés dans les plans          L'élaboration des plans trimestriels a pu pallier ce
  d'opération                                           manquement
7) Retard dans le processus de passation de             Un expert en passation des marchés a été recruté et
  marchés et insuffisance dans la gestion               la DAGE a été également renforcée par le
  financière du Projet                                  recrutement d'un Expert comptable
8) Difficultés liées à la contractualisation avec        Le contrat du consultant avait finalement été
  les consultants H3T                                    rompu du fait du préjudice subi par le projet



Leçons apprises et recommandations

L'intégration du PLCME dans le PDIS s'est opérée difficilement parce que, bien qu'admise dés le départ,
les modalités de cette intégration n'ont jamais été définies en ce qui concerne la coordination des activités
du projet, la gestion du compte spécial et la répartition des tâches au niveau central et au niveau régional

La pertinence du taux de décaissement comme critère de performance du projet est à nuancer dans ce cas
précis où les investissements constituent 73 %.
Les activités aptes à faire évoluer les indicateurs et qui ne constituent qu'une infime partie du financement



                                                       - 39 -

courent ainsi le risque d'être négligées en faveur des gros contrats

L'appropriation par le niveau opérationnel des projets comme le PLCME, nécessite une plus grande
responsabilisation des régions et des districts dans la gestion des activités et dans la gestion financière.



Recommandations

1)       procéder à la nomination des responsables des équipes de surveillance épidémiologique aux niveaux

         des régions et au renforcement des capacités de gestion du SIG au niveau central,

2)       veiller à l'opérationnalité effective du SIG et à la maintenance du parc informatique destiné à

         l'application santé,

3)       approfondir la décentralisation de la gestion financière,

4)       renforcer le système de suivi évaluation des programmes de lutte contre la maladie et notamment

         quantifier et rendre disponible les indicateurs


-------------------------------

Appendix 1: List of project activities which were not completed during project implementation.

The table below details all activities planned under each project component which could not be
realized owing to lack of time before closing date of the Credit or to insufficient funds. The
MoH has confirmed that all activities have secured sufficient funding either from external
donors or from government budget. The total amount of these activities is estimated at 1 136
960 thousand CFAF (DTS 1. 4 million). This information was collated during the ICR mission.

* Activité a laquelle IDA avait donné sa non objection mais qui n'a pu être financée sur le Crédit 2951-SE
faute de temps ou de fonds suffisants.

PROGRAMME DE LUTTE CONTRE LE PALUDISME                                                    COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                              (en F CFA)
Doter le programme d'un véhicule de supervision                                                        20 000 000
Doter le district de matériel de promotion de la P.E.C des fièvres à domicile en                        4 000 000
relation avec le programme palu
Réévaluer l'épidémiologie du paludisme                                                                 30 000 000
Mener une étude sur les conséquences économiques et sociales du paludisme                              14 992 000
pour *
Mener une enquête sur la sensibilité du paludisme aux antipaludiques *                                 12 000 000
Mener une étude sur la qualité des services offerts dans la prise en charge du                         10 040 000
paludisme *
Mener une étude des contraintes et facteurs favorisant la disponibilité de la                           9 980 000
chloroquine *
Développer et évaluer les nouveaux outils pour le diagnostic biologique du                             20 000 000
paludisme
Apporter un appui en carburant et en consommables au programme palu                                     8 000 000
SOUS-TOTAL Programme Paludisme                                                                      129 012 000




                                                      - 40 -

PROGRAMME DE LUTTE CONTRE LA BILHARZIOSE                                                 COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                             En F CFA
 Doter le programme bilharziose de matériel de labo pour 20MF *                                     20 000 000


 Acquisition de consommable de labo pour le programme bilharziose                                   18 623 000
 Acquérir des échographes et des pesés personnes                                                    26 000 000
 Assurer la formation décentralisée des agents de santé                                             10 000 000
 Former 22 agents pour la prise en charge de la bilharziose en relation avec le                        800 000
 programme bilharziose
 Assurer la production de fiches techniques de prise en charge et de supports IEC                   10 000 000
 dans le cadre de lutte contre la bilharziose
 Doter la sbh de matériel de labo pour la lutte malacologique en coordination
 avec le programme bilharziose                                                                      10 000 000

 SOUS-TOTAL Programme Bilharsiose                                                                 105 423 000

PROGRAMME DE LUTTE CONTRE L'ONCHOCERCOSE                                                   COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                              En F CFA
Acquérir des équipements de labo et de consommables *                                              12 000 000
Acquérir 250 bicyclettes pour les ASC                                                              62 000 000
Doter l'équipe nationale de matériels d'évaluation                                                20 000 000
Effectuer une enquête CAP *                                                                       10 000 000
Organiser la revue technique annuelle du programme onchocercose édition 2003-2004 *                 9 900 000
PNLO Assurer la formation décentralisée                                                            33 700 000
Réaliser une étude d'impact de l'ivermectine sur la transmission *                                  3 750 00
Elaborer et diffuser les outils D'IEC *                                                            8 500 000
SOUS-TOTAL PROGRAMME ONCHOCERCOSE                                                               156 100 000

SNIS                                                                                          COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                                  En F CFA
P.E.C stage de perfectionnement en télématique et réseaux d'un agent de la DSD pour assurer         8 000 000
la continuité du réseau télématique
Assurer la formation d'1 agent de la DSD à la gestion et du management des système                  6 000 000
d'information
Assurer la participation a 10 réunions de coordination des régions médicales                        1 725 000
Organiser un atelier de 10 jours pour l'élaboration du manuel de référence du SIG [1ere             7 360 000
session]
Assurer la collecte des données des formations sanitaires                                           4 740 000
Réactualiser les bases de données de la DERF                                                        3 705 000
Organiser un séminaire de révision des outils de collecte du SIG                                    3 320 000
Organiser un atelier d'élaboration du dictionnaire des données                                      4 360 000
Organiser un atelier de validation des données du dictionnaire                                      4 360 000
Organiser un atelier de validation de l'application santé                                           4 360 000
Assurer l'achat de supports didactiques et techniques en informatiques            [documents,       5 000 000
logiciels, analyse et exploitation]
 Assurer l'impression du manuel de référence du SIG en 3000 exemplaires                           10 500 000
Assurer la publication du rapport annuel des statistiques sanitaires 2001                          25 000 000
Assurer la multiplication des outils de collecte SIG                                               30 000 000
Assurer les charges d'exploitation du réseau informatique de la DERF                                8 000 000
Assurer l'élaboration du schéma directeur informatique                                             50 000 000
SOUS-TOTAL SIG                                                                                  176 430 000

SURVEILLANCE EPIDEMIOLOGIQUE                                                                  COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                                  EN F CFA
Doter la coordination d'1 véhicule pour la surveillance épidémiologique                            20 000 000
Elaborer et réviser les manuels de formations                                                       3 170 000

                                                        - 41 -

 Former les équipes chargées de la gestion des épidémies                                       26 380 000
 Multiplier et diffuser les outils IEC pour la surveillance épidémiologique                     8 400 000
 Assurer le carburant et la maintenance du véhicule de la surveillance épidémiologique          6 500 000
 SOUS-TOTAL SURVEILLANCE EPIDEMIOLOGIQUE                                                      64 450 000

RESEAU DE LABORATOIRES                                                                   COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                           En F CFA
Equiper les laboratoires des régions                                                          200 000 000
Acheter un véhicule de coordination du réseau des labo                                         20 000 000
Stage de courte durée dans un labo en France                                                   11 000 000
Assurer le recyclage des personnels de labo                                                    11 320 000
Introduire la culture et l'ABG au niveau des labo des régions                                  15 000 000
Assurer la supervision des labo régionaux                                                      12 000 000
Apporter un appui pour la reproduction des manuels et des fiches techniques des labo            4 400 000
SOUS-TOTAL RESEAU DE LABORATOIRES                                                           273 720 000

PRISE EN CHARGE DES MALADIES DE L'ENFANT                                                 COUT ACTIVITE
                                                                                           En F CFA
Equiper les structures ciblées pour la PCIME                                                   200 000 000
Valider et intégrer le matériel de formation                                                     600 000
Mettre en oeuvre le plan dans les écoles                                                        1 000 000
Doter 665 prestataires de livrets de tableau pour                                              16 625 000
Doter 20 districts d'affiches PCIME pour                                                       13 600 000
SOUS-TOTAL PCME                                                                             231 825 000

TOTAL DES ACTIVITES NON REALISEES                                                          1 136 960 000




                                                            - 42 -

- 43 -

