Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-1 I 'L 7 -4 A
Report No. 7166-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
July 1, 1988
Asia Regional Office
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not o.herwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(January 1988)
Currency Unit = Kip
$1 = Kip 380
(in this report $ refers to USS)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEL     -   Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao
IDF      -   Industrial Development Finance
IFAD     -   international Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
NEM      -   New System of Economic Management
OECD     -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Developmenc
SAC      -   Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF      -   Structural Adjustment Facility
SBL      -   State Bank of Lao PDR
SDR      -   Special Drawing Rights
SOE      -   Statement of Expenditures



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUB8'IC
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summarl
Borrower:          Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Beneficiary:       State Bank cf the Lao PDR (SBL)
Amount:             SDR 7.4 million ($10 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:   The proceeds of the credit would be on-lent by the
Government to SBL in US dollars for a 20-year term,
including a 5-year grace period, at a fixed interest rate
of 42 p.a. The Government would bear the cross-currency
risk between the SDR and the US dollar. The credit
proceeds would be used by SBL to finance small- and medium-
sized industrial enterprises; subloans would bear a fixed
interest rate of 82 p.a. with an annual review to ensure
that the interest rate remains positive in real tet.ms; the
subborrowers would carry the foreign exchange risk between
the US dollar and the kip.
Project
Description:     The project objectives are to (a) upgrade the capacity and
productivity of small- and medium-sized industries through
the acquisition of modern equipment and essential spare
parts and raw materials, and through the provision of
technical assistance to improve production methods and
management skills; and (b) develop SBL's capacity to
provide term finance to industry and act as a catalyst in
the ongoing reform of the investment selection process in
the Lao PDR. An estimated 20 enterprises, largely in the
light industry sector, would receive subloans for
modernization and expansion.
The principal project risk is that lack of qualified staff
may impede the rapid development of a capability for sub-
project appraisal within SBL. This constraint would be
mitigated by IDA's detailed review of SBL's pipeline of
subprojects during project appraisal. Consultant assis-
tance would also be provided during implementation to train
and assist staff in project evaluation and monitoring.
Th-  rw tt -r .   -1 id'i -'; iarI-vI    Ir vf xtsq -Iv in t * perfnv   ^ |



Estimated
Disbursement:      IDA FY       1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
-~---------- US$ mill1ion -----------
Annual           1.1      2.7     3.3     2.0     0.9
Cumulative       1.1      3.8     7.1     9.1    10.0
Financin8 Plan:
IDA                                  US$10.0 million
French Government                    US$ 0.6 million
Total                           US$10.6 million
Economic Rate
of Return:     Not applicable
No. IBRD 20867



- iii -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary.................................        i
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .................................. ....       1
Mineral Resources ......................................       2
Sector Management        ......      .............*...         3
Investment Program...................6............ ccc...      6
Financial Intermediation .........  e...... e.. .e.o....       6
IDA Lending Strategy in the Sector .....................       9
II.   THE PROJECT ......... oo   . ..... ....... .........              10
Project Objectives.........................e............      10
Project Costs and Financinge...........................       11
Subproject Component. ......c.  ..c.c.c . cc.......          . 11
Technical Assistance and Training Component............       12
Institutional Aspects.....o ..................e.*.e.*ess      13
Environmental Aspects .o......... ... e.... e.............    16
III.   THE IDA CREDIT ..................c.                               16
Main Featurese...........................c........c.....      16
Procurement and Disbursement ......... ccc.ec ccc ccc.       ... 17
Reporting and Auditing Requirements....................       18
Project Benefits and Risks.............................       18
IV.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION.....        .......    .....  .     19
ANNEXES
1.  Value and Volume of Production of Industrial Enterprises,
l982-87....cc.cc.......c.e.....c.ccc..c.ec.cccccc...cc        21
2.   Mining Production and Exports, 1982-87..c.*cc..cc.cec**c*c        22
3.   Industrial COtput Index, 1982-87 ......... *...........           23
4.   SBL Credit Operations, 1983-87 .......................            24
5.   Interest Rate Changes,      1..5                                  25
6.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance c....ee...      26
7.   Pipeline of Subprojectseo...... cc...... ....................    28
8.   Projected Disbursement Schedule....       ......... . .. 32
9.   Selected Documents in the rroject File.....................       33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprised of
Jean-Paul Pinard (mission leader) and Philippe Muller (Consultant), which
visited the Lao PDR in January/February 1988.



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR 1/
1.1       The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) has only a very small
industrial sector: mining and manufacturing, the primary industries, together
account for less than 5% of GDP and provide employment to fewer than 30,000
people (less than 3% of the labor force). Specifically, the country's indus-
trial activities include tin and gypsum mining, the processing of forest and
agricultural commodities, both for export and domestic consumption, limited
value-added manufacturing for the domestic market from domestic or imported
raw materials (metal working, textiles, paper, construction materials), and
traditional artisanal production. Most industrial concerns were taken over by
the Government in 1975 and have since been under the purview cf either the
Central Government or provincial authorities. With a few exceptions, private
activities were until recently restricted to small-scale handicraft production
at the village level (e.g., cloth and basVet weaving, rice milling). In 1985,
the Government embarked on a broad program of economic reforms, which encom-
passes rationalization of the foreign exchange regime, decontrol of most
commodity prices, and greatly enhanced operational and financial autonomy for
public enterprises. When fully implemented these far-reaching reforms are
expected to generate large gains in efficiency in the public sector. They are
accompanied by a shift in government policies vis-a-vis the private sector,
which should lead to a gradual increase in industrial investment by private,
cooperative and mixed (public/private) enterprises. Overall, the industrial
sector is poised for a marked improvement in performance over the medium-term.
Manufacturing
1.2       The composition and structure of the manufacturing subsector has
changed little since the early 1970s. Except for a substantial expansion of
forestry activities during the First Five-Year Plan (1981-85), investment has
been extremely limited. Overall, there has been little replacement of, let
alone additions to, productive capacity. As a result, most factories operate
with antiquated and often largely obsolete equipment in a poor state of
repair. This, along with the shortages of imported inputs, spare parts and
trained staff, has contributed to lowering average capacity utilization to
about 30%. Overall, the manufacturing subsector suffers from a severe lack of
foreign exchange resources as the Government in the past often gave priority
to other sectors in allocating hard-currency funds. This attitude has some-
what eased recently, particularly for industries in a position to earn or save
foreign exchange. Manufacturing industries, however, remain in need of
1/   Both the performance of the industrial sector and the Government's
program of economic reforms are discussed in detail in the latest Country
Economic Memorandum to be issued in early FY89.



foreign exchange, both for the acquisition of fixed assets and the --rocurement
of raw materials and maintenance items.
1.3       The competitiveness and growth potential of the manufacturing
subse,or lie in the availability of a cleap, albeit over time not necessarily
abundant, labor force and of a substantial resource base, particularly a vast
timber endowment. The landlocked position and mountainous terrain of the
country also afford an element of protection to those industries whose output
is particularly sensitive to transport costs.  Industries warranting support
include agro-industries (tannery, tobacco processing, wood processing),
industries supporting agricultural development (agricultural tools), basic
consumer goods, and export-oriented industries (e.g., garment factories).  In
the latter case, the Lao PDR is in a position to benefit from the tightening
of textile quotas imposed by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and
Development (OECD) on other Southeast Asian countries, which induce traders to
look for alternative production locales. A number of constraints, however,
prevent the realization of this potential: a generally poor organization of
production; insufficient familiarity with preventive maintenance prccedures,
which compounds the lack of foreign exchange for spare parts; and the absence
of basic cost accounting techniques to identify the most competitive lines of
production in multiproduct industries. For its part, the development of agro-
industries has been hampered by a deficient producer pricing system for cash
crops (cotton, tobacco), which has prevented a useful integration of the
economy by maintaining the non-monetization of large segments of the agricul-
tural sector.
Mineral Resources
1.4       The Lao PDR is rich in mineral resources.  Ore deposits of many
kinds--tin, gypsum, coal, iron, potash, etc.--have been identified which could
potentially provide the economy with much developmental impetus.  Moreover,
the country is believed to hold good petroleum potential. These attractive
prospects notwithstanding, the mining subsector has been relatively stagnant
over the last ten years; ore production is limited and contributes only
modestly to export revenues ($2.3 million in 1987). Future growth faces two
sets of constraints: the uncertain economics of most possible ventures due
mainly to the Lao PDR's landlocked position, and the high capital costs of
mine development which make it imperative for the Government to consider
alternative financing schemes.
1.5       Sectoral output consists essentially of tin and gypsum, both of
which are mined for export (to Viet Nam and the USSR, respectively). Produc-
tion of tin since the nationalization of mines in 1976 has dropped consider-
ably below previous levels; production in 1987 was only 450 tons. There have
been delays in bringing new veins of ore into production; meanwhile, older
mines have become less productive and mining costs have been increasing.
Additional problems have included the growing obsolescence of equipment, lack
of spare parts, and transport bottlenecks due to fuel shortages. As a result,
tin has ceased to be a significant earner of foreign exchange. Gypsum mining
began in 1980 and has since grown rapidly, albeit at a slower pace than expec-
ted initially. Production in 1987 was about 70,000 tons. More recently,
mining of coal and sapphires has also been initiated.



1.6       Over the past few years, the Department of Mineral Resources has
been carrying out survey work, with assistance from the USSR, to establish the
extent and commercial viability of iron deposits. Estimates of iron reserves
range up to one billion tons of high-quality ore (60-70X pure iron content),
which could be mined in open pits. Ve-t potash deposits also exist in the
Vientiane Plain and a feasibility study for their exploitation has been
conducted by an Australian company. In both cases, however, the viability of
commercial production remains to be eatablished, particularly in view of the
high transport costs involved. Undetermined quantities of other minerals have
also been identified but no assessment of the likely magnitude of reserves has
yet been made.
1.7       Overall, the mineral resource endowment of the Lao PDR warrants
close review2 o ascertain the role it could play in support of the country's
development.-   This calls for a comprehensive review of the mining subsector
that would take account of both the country's comparative advantages (low-cost
electricity and low-cost labor) and constraints (high transport costs),
followed by detailed feasibility studies for the most promising prospects.
Similarly, a detailed review of the geological potential of the Lao PDR for
petroleum exploration would be justified. For both the mining and petroleum
subsectors, however, long-term development will require funding far in excess
of the country's own resources and borrowing capability, making it essential
for the Government to consider a recourse to foreign private investment. The
recent issuing of a Code of Investment (para. 1.15) should facilitate this
process. This will need to be complemented by the enactment of legal and
fiscal regulations that would at once protect the national interest and pro-
mote the necessary transfer of resources and expertise.
Sector Management
1.8       Since the establishment of the Lao PDR in 1975, the Government has
been experimenting with alternative systems for managing public enterprises.
Until 1984 a highly centralized planning system was applied, the main charac-
teristics of which were that enterprises operated with an extremely limited
degree of autonomy and were required to meet detailed plan targets usually
formulated in physical terms. Prices, wages, exchange rates and credit were
seen as unimportant and their role in macroeconomic management limited to
providing an accounting framework for centralized planning. Rigid centraliza-
tion of price and investment decisions was combined with restrictive trade
policiu and a total absence of market-oriented incentives. Capital invest-
ments were normally financed through budgetary allocations, the latter being
also often used as a means of providing operating subsidies to enterprises.
Overall, this unwieldy management system has been responsible for slow sec-
toral growth mainly because it failed to provide sufficient incentives for
operating efficiency at the enterprise level.
2/   There is little prospect in the immediate future for integrating the
mining subsector with the rest of the economy; coal mining for cement
production would be one possible exception.



- 4 -
1.9       Fo  a number of years, the Government has been attempting to reduce
the burden imposed by state enterprises on the state budget and to improve
their efficiency so that they generate a surplus, rather than be users of
public resources. Initial steps in this direction were taken in 1981 when
state enterprises were allowed to retain 10% of their profits and to finance
half of their working capital through credit. Later on in 1983 the Government
started to experiment with a new policy of increased autonomy to enterprises
on a selected basis. These changes, however, did not fundamentally modify the
Government's system of economic management.
1.10      The New System of Economic Management.  Considerably more ambitious
reforms were introduced in 1985 with the launching of the Second Five-Year
Plan (1986-90). In contrast to earlier changes, the process started in 1985
does not aim -: improving the existing centralized planning system but
proposes to replace it with a New System of Economic Management (NEM).  The
main principles of the reforms which have since been specified in a set of
government decrees are to (a) swioch from rigid tdministrative controls to a
system of management based on autonomous decision-making by individual enter-
prises with respect to output levels, employment, investment, prices and
wages; (b) remove existing constraints on internal and external trade with a
view to promoting increased monetization of the economy through freely
contracted trading arrangements among all economic agents; and (c) acknowledge
the potentially constructive role of the private sector in the economy by
endorsing the principle of equality of treatment for both private and public
enterprises with respect to trade, access to credit and taxation, and
encouraqging the establishment of mixed businesses. A critical element of the
reform process is the decision by the Government to move progressively to a
unified exchange rate system that would closely parallel the free-market
exchange rate (pa a. 1.23).
1.11      As regards public enterprises, the NEM envisages increased autonomy
and financial accountability in day-to-day operations and investment deci-
sions. This would be achieved partly by allowing enterprises to retain a
greater share of their local and foreign exchange earnings (together with
provisions for depreciation and amortization which used to be transferred to
the state budget). Trade would be considerably liberalized and output prices
set dirjetly by the enterprises themselves so as to be competitive with market
prices.-   Restrictions on internal trade would be removed partly to promote a
more effective interface between industries and input suppliers, particularly
cash-crop growers (e.g., tobacco, cotton). Enterprises would also be allowed
to engage directly in export trade in order to strengthen linkages between
domestic production and export markets. Credit would replace budgetary
transfers as the main means of financing investment and working capital.
Finally, enterprises would be allowed to set staffing and remuneration levels
3/   The Government intends to fix only a few prices (on a cost-plus basis),
namely, those of commodities that cannot be imported and are produced by
one state enterprise only, as well as those of a few strategic goods.
The Government intends, however, to eliminate all operating subsidies to
state enterprises irrespective of output.



independently of state directives, possibly on the basis of a performa..ce-
related salary scale. By the beginning of 1988, the Lovernment had made
almost all manufacturing enterprises autonomous, which implies the application
to them of the above measures.
1.12      From a financial standpoint, the status of productive enterprises is
being modified in' several significant ways once they have been declared auto-
nomous: (a) as already indicated output prices would become kmarket-related
(the so-called one-price policy);4/ (b) the commercial exchange rate (US$1 =
Kip 380 in January 1988), which closely follows free market conditions,
governs all commercial transactions, thus eliminating the severe distortions
caused by the previous multi-exchange rate system; and (c) the taxation regime
has been modified frim a tax levied on turnover to one levied on profits.
Fiscal transfers to the state budget will vary from se O or to sector but apply
equally to all types of enterprises in a given sector.-   Altogether, these
reforms will br_ng about more transparency in the way finaxicial accounts
depict operating performance, thereby promoting greater accouutability at the
enterprise level.
1.13      Implementation of the new enterprise management system, particularly
its tax reform element, will call for a significant improvement in accounting
standards. In the past, financial accounts have played a limited role in the
management of public enterprises since control was exercised mostly through
quantitative indicators. The introduction in 1985 of new accounting proce-
dures (as a basis for a cost-plus pricing system now largely abandoned) met
with numerous difficulties for lack of trained accountants. This remains an
area of concern, calling for specific training at the enterprise level, since
improved accounting procedures, together with the establishment of easily
monitorable performance criteria, will be necessary to assist managers in
their new responsibilities of product selection, output determination and
overall financial accountability. A training program designed to facilitate
the introduction of key accounting principles has been initiated by the
Ministry of Finance with bilateral asssistance.
1.14      It is the policy of the Government to apply the NEM to all public
enterprises as soon as possible and most manufacturing enterprises have
already been declared autonomous. However, no deadline has been set for
completion of the reform because the pace of extension of the new system
depends on the aptitude of enterprises to adjust financially to the new
circumstances, in particular the new price setting rules, the application of a
unified exchange rate (which significantly increases the cost of imported
inputs for a number of them) and the elimination of all operating subsidies.
4/   Decree No. 30 issued in 1987 by the Council of Ministers prohibits
central and provincial administrations from interfering with price
setting by market participants.
5/   The allocation of after-tax profits among various funds including bonuses
to staff would be left to the discretion of enterprises.



1.15      Private Investment.  The decrees specifying the reforms clearly
indicate that the new system of economic management will provide equal oppor-
tunities to all enterprises, whatever their form of ownership. Yet the impact
of the NEM on private sector activities remains to be ascertained. The
Government has been encouraging the establishment of Societes Mixtes (i.e.,
companies with both private and government participations) with large trading
rights, including direct export-import rights, and public enterprises have
been allowed to deal directly with such trade cooperatives as well as with
private traders. Moreover, there are indications that, as manifestations of
the NEM become increasingly visible, private investment will progressively
materialize. The need for the Lao PDR to open up its economy to foreign
investors so as to palliate its shortage of capital and management resources
was noted earlier. An important step in this direction is the recent enact-
ment of an Investment Code which has not yet been made public but is expected
to open the way to the possibility of direct foreign investment.
Investment Program
1.16      The Second Five-Year Plan envisages a significant expansion in
industrial investment compared to achievements under the previous Plan, partly
as a reflection of increased aid flows. In the manufacturing subsector,
emphasis is placed correctly on rehabilitation and selective expansion of
existing capacity for export-oriented and efficient import-substitution
production. Overall, investment in manufacturing during the Plan period is
estimated at about $65 million (out of a total investment program estimated at
$365 million). It appears that most of the external financing requirjd for
implementation of the Plan has already been identified, including the proposed
IDA credit. Nevertheless, lack of foreign exchange resources for operation
and maintenance remains a potentially critical constraint.
Financial Intermediation
1.17      Organization.  The country's financial sector is rudimentary.  The
only banking institution is the State Bank of the Lao PDR (Banque d'Etat de la
RDPL) (SBL) which combines the functions of central, commercial and develop-
ment banking. It operates through a network of provincial and district
branches and is responsible for (a) money creation, (b) collection of
deposits, and tc) extension of credit (paras. 2.9 to 2.15). In 1976, the
Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao (BCEL) was created as a specialized
branch of SBL to hold international reserves and handle all foreign currency
transactions. Enterprises or individuals with access to foreign exchange
normally keep separate kip and foreign exchange accounts in one of SBL's
branches and in BCEL, respectively.
1.18      SBL's role to date in allocating resources has been minor.  Under
the old system of economic management, the magnitude and utilization cf credit
were determined by the Annual Credic Plan set by the Government. Interest
rates were determined by SBL in the light of government policies, with limited
concern for economic efficiency implications. Mobilization of public
resources was achieved by txansferring nearly all operating income and non-
cash expenditures of public enterprises to the state budget, and by taxing the
agricultural sector substantially. Funds were subsequently allocated from the



- 7 -
state budget through sectoral ministries with interest rates playing almost no
role as a policy instrument. These policies in part were responsible for the
country's poor domestic savings performance and for imbalances in investment
-llocations, by channeling insufficient resources to the manufacturing sector
in relation to its potential.
1.19      The NEM will significantly affect the operations of tl.e banking
system, and its implications are already affecting the organization of SBL:
in January 1988, the Government approved the broad conceptual framework for a
reform of the financial sector, the details of which will be worked out in
detail over the next 12-18 months. This reform essentially provides for the
separation of SBL's central and commercial banking functions. SBL's provin-
cial and district branches will be restructured into a number of autonomous
commercial banks which will be responsible for all domestic savings and credit
operations. These commercial balks, the number and configuration of which
remain to be decided, will have their own statutes and operate independently
of SBL, with their own resources and management. SBL's statutes will be
modified to reflect its refocused functions as a traditional central bank,
responsible for money creation and for domestic credit management through the
operation of rediscount facilities and the establishment of minimum reserve
requirements for the commercial banks. SBL will also continue handling
specialized banking activities over and above its expanded responsibilites as
a reserve bank. The BCEL would be established as a specialized bank indepen-
dent of SBL and responsible for all foreign exchange transactions. This
important reform will strengthen the banking system's ability to formulate and
implement appropriate credit and monetary policies. It is expected to be
implemented progressively over the next two years under directives to be
provided through government decrees. The proposed project will provide a
vehicle for IDA to contribute to the elaboration of specific measures. In
particular, the new statutes of SBL would be discussed with the Government
during project supervision. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the Government would keep the Association informed of any changes to be
introduced in the banking system.
1.20      Fixed Assets and Working Capital Financing.  Under the old system of
economic management, the enterprises' funding requirements were derived from
production plans prepared within the framework of the national plan. Financ-
ing of fixed assets and working capital came almost entirely from the state
budget, although in recent years half of the enterprises' working-capital
needs have been covered by short-term credit. Term credit for investment
purposes has remained limited. A major implication of the NEM, however, is
the expanded role of the country's still undeveloped financial sector. The
structure of investment financing will change consideribly, with self-
financing and term credit playing a central role. Investment decisions that
were formerly determined by plan targets will now have to be based on indepen-
dent assessments of project prospects. While public enterprises will continue
to prepare production plans, their finpncing requests will no longer be
automatically granted but, at least in principle, decided on the basis of a
review of credit applications by the financing institution. This shift in
policy will require considerable strengthening of the banking sector, particu-
larly its ability to carry out project and creditworthiness analysis.



- 8 -
1.21      Credit Terms.  Deposit and lending rates in the Lao PDR were last
adjusted in 1985 (Annex 5), and are low and negative in real terms in relation
to recent inflation. Rates on long-term loans for the acquisition of capital
items range from 3.6% for state enterprises to 4.2% for cooperatives and 6%
for private individuals (mostly handicraft producers); loans are for periods
of three to seven years. Short-term rates are somewhat higher (4.8%, 5.04%
and 8.4%, respectively). Rate differentials across sectors and forms of
ownership were meant to reflect differences in profitability due to their more
or less easy access to the free market--a factor which will disappear under
the NEM. Foreign exchange lending is limited to a small volume of short-term
credit extended by the BCEL, mainly in support of trading activities, which
carries a flat 10% interest rate (irrespective of the currency) with the
foreign exchange risk borne by the borrowers.
1.22      Interest rate policies are currently under review by the Government.
Although the NEM recognizes the importance of interest rates as a planning
tool, the extent to which they will become a significant instrument for
resource mobilization end allocation is not clear. The proposed introduction
of a discount rate, however, indicates a shift in government policies toward
giving interest rates a more central function in macroeconomic management.
Moreover, the general principles announced in the NEM initiating documents
include a commitment to revise the structure of interest rates with a view to
achieving positive real lending rates over time. The NEM also provides equal
access to credit to all forms of enterprises, although the credit risk asso-
ciated with each category of borrowers will presumably be reflected in differ-
ent guarantee and/or collateral requirements.
1.23      Foreign Exchange Regime and Allocation.  An important objective of
the NEM is to move progressively towards a unified, market-related exchange
rate to replace the previous highly distorted multi-rate system. Progress in
this area was made in September 1987, when the number of exchange rates was
reduced from 7 to 4, ranging from Kip 10 per dollar to Kip 380 per dollar.
More importantly, the share of foreign exchange transactions undertaken at the
commercial exchange rate (Kip 380 per dollar), which is intended to follow
closely the free market rate, has increased considerably. In particular, all
foreign exchange transactions entered by autonomous public enterprises are now
based on the commercial exchange rate. The Government also intends to
rationalize it system of foreign exchange surrender and allocation. The Lao
PDR has now a unique system for mobilizing and allocating foreign exchange.
Generally, exporters are entitled to re4tain that part of foreign exchange
earnings required to cover the cost of imported raw materials and the depre-
ciation of imported machinery. The remaining foreign exchange is transferred
to the relevant state (Central Government or provincial) budget as part of tax
payments. Allocations of foreign exchange for imports are made by the
Ministry of Finance and, to a lesser extent, the provincial authorities, which
buy (or collect as taxes) and sell foreign exchange. Finally, foreign
exchange can be purchased (or borrowed) by enterprises directly from the BCEL
according to availability.
1.24      The unification of exchange rates used for commercial transactions
will contribute appreciably to bringing about a more rational allocation of
scarce foreign exchange resources. It is likely, however, that the country



- 9 -
will still need some degree of foreign exchange rationing for some time to
come. One other possible improvement would be to end the practice of using
the budget to channel foreign exchange surrendered by exporters and, instead
to let BCEL buy and sell foreign currency balances at the prevailing exchange
rate, without necessarily eliminating the intervention of a centralized
authority in the allocation process, at least initially. The foreign exchange
allocation process is to be discussed further with the International Monetary
Fund (IMF).
IDA Lending Strategy in the Sector
1.25.'    The proposed project would be the first IDA operation in :he Lao
industrial sector. Its justification lies in supporting the far-reaching
program of economic and financial reforms introduced by the Government over
the past two years. In the course of previous economic discussions with the
Bank, the Government has been receptive to Bank analyses of issues related to
the performance of the country's public enterprises. The Bank has also been
gaining relevant experience with the operations of the country's public
enterprises through its lending for hydropower and telecommunications develop-
ment, and is thus in a good position to assist the Government in implementing
its proposed package of reforms. This program, when fully implemented, is
expected to bring about greater efficiency in the operations of public enter-
prises while opening the way for a greater reliance on private initiatives.
Within this context, IDA's lending strategy is to address the two key con-
straints to sector development:  (a) the lack of foreign currency resources
for the rehabilitation and expansion of productive capacity in areas where the
country holds a comparative advantage; and (b) the need to strengthen institu-
tional and managerial capabilities in view of the increased emphasis being
placed on autonomous microeconomic decisions by individual entities. With
regard to the latter, the shift from a centrally planned system of economic
management to one relying on decentralized investment and term finance deci-
sions will bring about additional responsibilities for both the banking system
and investing enterprises, which will require strengthening to overcome the
difficulties associated with the transition period. The proposed project
would address the most pressing institutio.aal needs which are for assistance
in project conceptualization and evaluation on the one hand, and in production
organization and management on the other. In the longer term, there will be a
need for IDA to provide support to the new banking infrastructure once it has
been put in place, particularly in developing appropriate policies and proce-
dures for the new commercial banks.
1.26      The government reforms are providing the backdrop for a proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) now under preparation in parallel with
ongoing discussions between the Government and the IMF on the possible use of
the Fund's Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF). The SAC is expected to
provide further support to the reform process while complementing the proposed
project by addressing the recurrent financial needs of industries, thereby
alleviating possible constraints on capacity utilization from lack of foreign
exchange for raw materials and maintenance items.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
2.1       The project was formulated in the context of the new system of
economic management introduced by the Government. The new program opens the
door for greater efficiency in the operations of public enterprises, thereby
justifying an expansion in industrial investment to compensate for the sharp
curtailment in capacity renewal and extension that prevailed over the past.
decade. Government policies also envisage a greater role for private, cooper-
ative and mixed (public/private) enterprises. Altogether, demand for term
credit for development financing is expected to increase sharply within a
general policy environment that justifies the involvement of IDA. The project
was prepared in close collaboration between IDA and the Laotian authorities.
As discussed in para. 2.6, project preparation and appraisal involved a
detailed review of SBL's pipeline of subprojects. This was carried out
jointly with SBL and government staff who were exposed in the process, partly
by way of seminars, to the use of appropriate economic and financial tools for
project evaluation. Overall, even though the country suffers from severe
human resource constraints, there appear to be good prospects for operational
and institutional growth during the project period.
Project Objectives
2.2       The basic purpose of the project is to support essential investments
for the rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of productive capacity in
the industrial sector through the provision of equipment, spare parts and
technical assistance. This in turn would be expected to bring about more
efficient levels of production and help the country take advantage of export
and import substitution opportunities, thereby enhancing the levels of public
savings and foreign exchange earnings. While the primary focus of the project
would be on the manufacturing sector, with many of the investments to be
financed already selected, the project would also lay the ground for future,
more typical industrial development finance (IDF) operations. Accordingly,
another project objective would be to support the institutional development
needed for the delivery of term credit for industrial financing in the Lao
PDR; in particular, the establishment of systems and procedures for project
appraisal. and investment financing would be initiated with a view to giving
SBL progressively the capacity for a broad-based developmental contribution by
acting as a catalyst in the ongoing reform of the investment selection
process. More specifically, the project objectives would be to:
(a) upgrade the capacity and productivity of small- and medium-sized
industries through (i) the acquisition of modern equipment and
essential spare parts and raw materials, and (ii) the provision of
technical assistance to improve production methods and management
skills; and
(b) initiate the development of a capability for project evaluation
within SBL with a view to strengthening progressively the
institution's ability to assume its expanded financial
intermediation function under the NEM.



- 11 -
The proposed project would have two components:
(a) a Subproject Component consisting of small- and medium-sized reha-
bilitation and expansion projects, mainly in light industry, to be
financed by SBL; and
(b) a Technical Assistance and Training Component in support of SBL and
the borrowing enterprises.
Project Costs and Financing
2.3       The proposed IDA credit for SDR 7.4 million 'quivalent (US$10 mil-
lion) would finance the foreign exchange costs of the subproject component.
The costs of the technical assistance and training component, estimated at
$0.6 million, would be covered by a grant from the French Government.
Subproject Component
2.4       In view of the current lack of expertise within SBL for project
appraisal, SBL's pipeline of subprojects was reviewed in detail during prepa-
ration of the proposed project, and the process of appraising individual
subprojects was initiated jointly with SBL staff. The proposed credit amount
is closely related to the funding requirements of the subprojects identified
at project appraisal, an initial list of which has been approved in principle
for financing under the credit. These subprojects encompass both export-
oriented industries (garment, tobacco, tannery, cotton ginning) and high-
priority industries for the domestic market (agricultural tools, ceramics). A
brief description of these subprojects is in Annex 7. Individual subproject
evaluation reports are in the Project File. The analysis carried out at
appraisal indicates that the subprojects are economically attractive (due to a
combination of lov-labor costs and/or use of local resources) and provide a
sound basis for the credit. Final subproject appraisal reports, including
speciiic subloan recommendations, would be submitted by SBL for IDA's formal
clearance after credit approval. For a few subprojects, IDA's final concur-
rence would be conditional upon the provision of appropriate technical assis-
tance to the enterprise (para. 2.7 (b)). Additional subprojects are expected
to be identified by SBL over the next 12 months; these would be appraised by
SBL with the assistance of a Project Advisor (para. 2.7 (a)). A limited
provision (10-20X of the credit amount) is made for such additional sub-
projects. The coverage of subproject appraisal reports was discussed with SBL
staff during project appraisal.
2.5      All subprojects to be funded under the credit would be required to
meet the following eligibility criteria:
(a) have direct relevance to the industrial sector or related services;
(b) in the case of public sector subprojects, be sponsored by an enter-
prise with autonomous status;



- 12 -
(c) have a demonstrated technical, financial, economic and environmental
viability; and
(d) regarding the beneficiary enterprise, have a satisfactory projected
financial situation, taking account of the structure of prices,
exchange rate and taxation under which it will operate in the
future.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on these criteria for project
selection.
2.6       The IDA credit would be for an amount of SDR 7.4 million equiva-
lent. Its proceeds would be on-lent to eligible industrial enterprises for
financing the acquisition of fixed assets, interest during construction, and
the initial stock of raw materials and supplies needed to commence operations
or the increase in such stock to expand operations. While most subloans are
expected to go to the public sector, all enterprises would be eligible for
funding. SBL may use part of the credit proceeds to finance equity invest-
ments in mixed enterprises. Such investments would provide support to the
government policy of opening up the economy to private initiatives, thereby
facilitating private investment during the initial period. The cumulative
amount used for this purpose would not exceed $0.5 million. Submission of a
full subproject appraisal would be required in support of any share capital
investment.
Technical Assistance and Training Component
2.7       Project appraisal identified the need for two types of technical
assistance services: for SBL. to ensure efficient project implementation from
the standpoint of credit intermediation and contribute to the institution
building objective of establishing progressi--ely an in-house project
evaluation capability; and for the enterprises, to ensure that the benefits
from the investment of IDA funds are fully realized. Accordingly, the project
would include a provision for the services of:
(a) a Project Advisor to assist SBL in appraising subprojects and
subsequently in preparing subproject files and monitoring subproject
implementation, especially in relation to procurement. The Project
Advisor would assist in the conceptualization of subprojects,
particularly in the assessment of alternative investment options,
which in many cases involves rather difficult, technical issues
(e.g., rehabilitation of old equipment compared to acquisition of
new, choice of process, etc.). The Advisor would also contribute to
long-term development by (i) preparing a Project Manual providing
guidelines for the appraisal and supervision of subprojects by 8BL;
and (ii) providing staff training through both seminars and on-the-
job exposure. The Project Advisor would operate through short,
regular visits (three to four per year) for a total of about
24 staff-weeks over three years; and
(b) a Technical Advisor to assist SBL in the establishment and operation
of an Enterprise Assistance Cell which would operate in conjunction
with SBL's Credit Department (para. 2.13).  The cell will be staffed



- 13 -
with several Lao technicians and have the objective of providing
borrowing enterprises, on a selective basis, with technical assis-
tance in production management and organization, conception of
products for domestic use and for export, installation of new
equipment, etc. It is envisaged that, in specific cases, IDA's
approval of a subloan would be conditional upon the intervention of
the Enterprise Assistance Cell during subproject implementation.
The Technical Advisor would be recruited for a period of three
years.
2.8       Draft terms of reference for the above technical assistance services
are given in Annex 6. Training in relevant disciplines would be provided to
SBL staff both directly in the form of seminars in Vientiane and through
training periods abroad. It is essential that arrangements for the technical
assistance and training component be finalized by the time the IDA credit is
declared effective. Aczordingly, the selection and approval by SBL aild the
Government of the two consultants, with qualifications and under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed credit.
Institutional Aspects
2.9       SBL, which is the only banking institution in the country, combines
central, commercial and development banking functior.s, providing both indus-
trial and agricultural credit as part of its lending operations. SBL was
established in 1975 by a merger of the National Bank of Laos, the National
Bank Pathet Lao, the Development Bank of Laos and four commercial banks (Bank
of Vientiane, Bank Laovieng, Laos Commercial Bank and Banque de l'Indochine et
de Suez). SBL is governed by Banking Law No. 001 of August 1981 which estab-
lished a government monopoly over all banking activities in the Lao PDR. SBL
statutes were issued in 1983.
2.10      Organizatioai and Staffing.  SBL's organization structure is largely
decentralized, consisting of a central office in Vientiane, 17 provincial
branches and 92 district branches. There is one provincial branch in each
province and one in the Vientiane Prefecture, with BCEL operating as a specia-
lized branch responsible for all foreign currency transactions. Organiza-
tionally, SBL has the status of a Ministry within the Government and is
directly responsible to the Council of Ministers. It is headed by a Presi-
dent, with the rank of Minister, and four Vice-Presidents.
2.11      SBL has a staff of 1,200, most of whom are located outside the head
office. A critical constraint, however, is the acute shortage of skilled and
qualified staff and senior management personnel, which might impede the rapid
restructuring and strengthening of the banking system as envisaged under the
NEM. The reform of the banking system (para. 1.19) would restructure SBL's
provincial branches into a number of autonomous commercial banks responsible
for all commercial banking operations in local currency, with BCEL as an
autonomous entity responsible for all foreign currency transactions. SBL will
continue handling specialized banking activities over and above its expanded
responsibilities as a reserve bank, and will assume full responsibility for
implementation of the proposed project, relying on the commercial banks and



- 14 -
BCEL, when these have been established as separate entities, for transaction
purposes only. The proposed reform of the banking sector will make heavy
demands on the time of SBL senior management, but it is not expected that the
efficient implementation of the project would be jeopardized. Because of the
current managerial and staffing weaknesses of SBL, the approach taken was to
review in detail, during appraisal of the project, SBL's pipeline of projects
considered for financing under the credit (para. 2.4). The inclusion of
appropriate technical assistance under the project (para. 2.7) would further
strengthen SBL's project appraisal capability.
2.12      SBL's central office in Vientiane is organized around four major
offices; Savings, Deposits and Credit; Banking Systems; Personnel; and
Internal Accounts. The Savings, Deposits and Credit Office includes a Credit
Department with a staff of 12, which will be responsible for project implemen-
tation. Until recently, the main functions of the Credit Department included
(a) providing the necessary liaison between provincial branches and central
government authorities in implementation of the Credit Plan; (b) reviewing
credit requests that fell outside the Credit Plan; and (c) supervising the
credit operations of provincial branches to ensure their conformity with SBL's
lending policins and procedures. Since one of the key provisions of the NEM
is the elimination of a centrally prepared and monitored Credit Plan, the
activities of the Credit Department will be progressively refocused on
(a) supervising the activities of the commercial banks, when these have been
established, to ensure conformity with their statutory regulations; and
'b) handling specialized banking operations, in particular the provision to
industry of term finance in foreign exchange, which calls for specific exper-
tise not available at the branch level, at least initially. This approach
would allow the creation over time of a specialized development banking
institution, should this be deemed appropriate at a later stage. BCEL will
handle all foreign currency transactions related to the project operations.
BCEL is managed by a three-member committee, comprising a Director-in-Charge
and two Deputy Directors. The Director of BCEL reports to the President of
SBL through the Vice-President of the Banking Systems Office. BCEL staff is
competent and familiar with the technical aspects of the project, including
Special Account procedures (para. 3.6).
2.13      SBL Lending Operations.  Inasmiuch as they provide a consolidated
statement of central and commercial banking operations recorded using the
country's highly distorted multi-exchange rate system, SBL's accounts are
hardly meaningful. In particular, the book value of lending operations
considerably underrate the amount of, mostly short-term, credit extended in
the past. Total loan portfolio as of June 30, 1987 amounted to Kip 5.3 bil-
lion ($14 million equivalent at the present commercial exchange rate). Long-
term loans for investment cons'it-:ed 19% of the loan portfolio, while credit
to the private sector (including cooperatives) accounted for 14% of total
domestic credit. Credit has been financed by a combination of demand
deposits, mostly from public enterprises and the Government, and money crea-
tion. The current interest rate structure (para. 1.21) allows SBL to be
relatively profitable: net income in 1985 was Kip 154 million or 4.8Z of
year-end assets. Its average spread was 4.6% of the loan portfolio during
that year (with no cost imputed to money in circulation which accounted for
20% of liabilities). SBL's policies provide for 25% of net income to be



- 15 -
allocated to reserves, which is adequate. Debt recovery has been high to
date, with an average rate in excess of 90% nationally, including agricultural
credit. Debt service on credit to public enterprises, which are expected to
utilize most of the credit proceeds, has not been an issue so far since a
measure of credit was automatically granted to the enterprises to guarantee at
least a minimum of liquidity. However, the situation will have to be moni-
tored closely once borrowing enterprises operate under the new regime. As
public enterprises are granted greater financial autonomy and accountability,
the cost of supervising loans will probably increase. The design of the
credit (para. 3.2) provides for this contingency.
2.14      The structure of SBL's lending operations will be modified signifi-
cantly as a result of the shift from budgetary resources to term lending as
the main source of investment finance.  Demand for term credit in kip,
financed by demand deposits and available in the future directly from the
commercial banks, will increase although its attractiveness to industries will
depend on the availability of foreign exchange for conversion since the bulk
of investment consists of imported equipment. The SBL has only recently had
access to long-term resources for investment finance. A credit from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) in support of a rural
credit project was approved in 1987. The proposed IDA credit would provide
SBL with its first access to long-term foreign exchange resources, which would
allow it to engage more broadly in term credit operations with small- and
medium-sized enterprises. Larger-sized projects would continue to be promoted
directly by the central Government with financing being channeled directly to
the enterprise concerned. No additional long-term resources in support of
SBL's term credit operations are envisaged for the moment.
2.15      Institution Building.  The NEM calls for strengthening existing
infrastructure for the delivery of term credit to industry. This enlarged
mandate for SBL will require a major institutional reorientation and staff
training. New policies and operating procedures will have to be formulated.
In contrast with its previous approach to credit extension, SBL will now be
called upon to undertake an appraisal of the viability of each subproject
proposed for financing, including an evaluation of the creditworthiness of the
borrower. The process of establishing the analytical capability necessary for
this process would be initiated under the proposed project, whici' would
introduce appropriate methods of project identification, evaluation and
supervision. This would be achieved with the assistance of SBL's Project
Advisor, who would provide on-the-job training for SBL staff. This would be
complemented by a training program to be developed by SBL for implementation
under the project. The general principles that should guide subproject
appraisal and supervision would be developed by the Project Advisor in the
form of a Project Manual. The above measures would form an appropriate first
step toward the long-run objective of establishing an effective term lending
capability in the country. Through project supervisiun, IDA would maintain a
dialogue with SBL to support further the institution building effort, particu-
larly in regard to the enactment of the proposed reform of the financial
sector. In this context, IDA will provide guidance to SBL in the drafting of
a Policy Statement that would govern its term lending operations within the
new monetary framework. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SBL
would prepare, review with the Association and adopt a Policy Statement



- 16 -
governing its term lending and investment operations by December 31, 1990.
Additional measures to strengthen further the financial sector would be left
to subsequent operations after the new banking infrastructure has been put in
place.
Environmental Aspects
2.16      The impact of subprojects in SBL's pipeline on the environment was
reviewed during project appraisal. The scope of a tannery project was
modified at IDA's instance to include adequate waste water treatment
facilities. Similarly, the design of a proposed brewery project will be
reviewed during project supervision to ensure that it includes the necessary
envirvam,ental safeguards in the disposal of liquid effluents.  The guidelines
for subproject appraisal, which have been agreed with SBL, make specific
mention of the need for suitable coverage of environmental issues. This
aspect of subproject evaluation will be closely monitored in the course of
IDA's review of subproject files.
III. THE IDA CREDIT
Main Features
3.1       On-lending Terms.  The Lao PDR would be the borrower of the proposed
credit of SDR 7.4 million equivalent. It would on-lend the credit proceeds to
SBL under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, the
signing of which would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Both the
subsidiary loan to SBL and the subloans to the final beneficiaries would be
denominated in US dollars.  The Government would thus bear tile cross-currency
risk between the US dollar and the SDR, while the subborrowers would carry the
foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the kip. Subborrowers without
access to foreign exchange would be allowed to service their debt in kip at
the commercial exchange rate prevailing at the time of repayment. The project
would therefore be insulated from any distortions remaining in the exchange
rate system (para. 1.23). The alternative of on-lending IDA funds in kip
would not be appropriate at this stage given the many uncertainties on future
domestic inflation following the liberalization of internal trade and the
unification of the exchange rate system; it could, however, be reviewed at a
later stage once the reform of the banking and monetary systems has been
completed.
3.2       SBL would on-lend the credit proceeds to the final borrowers at a
fixed interest rate of 8% p.a. The on-lending rate is expected to be positive
in real terms over the life of SBL's subloans, given projected world inflation
rates (3% p.a. in 1988-90, 4% p.a. thereafter on the average). However,
during the period of commitment of the credit, the terms of subloans would be
reviewed with IDA annually and adjusted if necessary to ensure that the
lending rate to the financial beneficiaries remains positive in real terms.
While there is considerable uncertainty as regard future domestic inflation,
exchange rate adjustments are expected to compensate for the differences
between local and international inflation rates. Repayment periods for
subloans would normally not extend beyond seven years (including a grace



- 17 -
period of up to three years), and the maximum permissible period would be 12
years. IDA funds would be on-lent by the Government to SBL at a fixed
interest rate of 41 for 20 years including . 5-year grace period, with SBL
allowed to roll over the funds. The proposed 4% margin to SBL is appropriate
since term finance is essentially a new activity for SBL, which will involve
additional costs and an uncertain risk element. The financial viability of
term lending needs to be established firmly at the outset by making gound
financial plans against contingencies, particularly in view of the possibility
that this activity may be spun off under a specialized bank at a later
stage. SBL would repay any portion of the IDA credit used for equity
investments out of its own resources. The above terms and conditions were
agreed during negotiations. The last date for submission of subloan
applications to the Association would be June 30, 1991. The closing date of
the credit would be June 30, 1993.
3.3       Free Limit.  As discussed earlier, SBL's :roject evaluation capabi-
lity is still extremely limited. Accordingly, the free limit, under which
subloans could be made without the prior approval of the Association, would be
set at $200,000. This limit, which would allow SBL to respond rapidly to
financing requests by enterprises for small rehabilitation investments, was
agreed during negotiations. In addition, the first five subprojects would
require IDA's prior approval irrespective of their size. An estimated 60Z of
subprojects by number and 80% by amount are expected to be above the free
limit.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.4       Procurement.  Monitoring the procurement process of borrowing enter-
prises to ensure that economically efficient decisions are made would be an
important element of SBL's project supervision function, which it will assume
with the assistance of its Project Advisor (para. 2.7). Individual contracts
would be awarded after evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from
at least three qualified suppliers or contractors that would provide a
sufficiently wide geographical spread. Spare parts for existing equipment
costing less than $50,000 per contract and aggregating to no more than
$200,000 in total value for each enterprise may be procured from original
suppliers through direct contracting on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association.
3.5       Contracts above $500,000 would be subject to the Association's
standard review and approval. Only about ten contracts of this size are
expected. Contracts between $50,000 and $500,000 would be subject to post-
review by the Association and SBL would maintain all relevant documents in its
records for this purpose. These arrangements were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
3.6       Disbursement.  Disbursement of the proposed creait would be made
against standard documentation for 100% of: (a) foreign expenditures on goods
and services for subprojects; (b) the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment procured through international shopping; and (c) interest during
construction on subloans payable by borrowing ente prises. Disbursements for
contracts of $100,000 or above would be made against full documentation.



- 18 -
Disbursements for contracts of less than $100,000 would be made against
itemized Statements of Expenditures (SOE), with the full documentation held by
SBL for review by IDA supervision missions. These itemized SOEs would include
the following information: (i) name of beneficiary of subloan; (ii) amount of
subloan; (iii) description of goods; (iv) name and address of supplier;
(v) amount of payment; and (vi) country of origin. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1993. The disbursement projections (given in
Anrnex 8) are consistent with the disbursement profile of IDF lending in the
Asia Region. To the extent possible, all withdrawal applications should be
consolidated into amounts totalling $50,000 or more prior to submission to the
Association.  In order to facilitate disbursements, SBL will establish a
Special Account in the Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao, Vientiane, to be
maintained in US dollars with an authorized allocation of $660,000 equivalent,
representing an estimated average of four months expenditures, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Applications for replenishment
would be submit4ed quarterly or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 50% of
the initial depssit, whichever comes sooner. The Special Account and the SOE
would be audited separately from SBL's accounts
Reporting and Auditing Requirements
3.7       SBL would submit to the Associatioa:  (a) detailed annual reports on
its term credit operations to industry; (b) quarterly progress reports on all
subprojects under implementation and a list of subprojects in the pipeline;
(c) unaudited project accounts within six months of the end of each fiscal
yeac; and (d) a project completion report within six months after completion
of credit disbursements. Annual reports would also be submitted to the
Association on completed subprojects during the first three years of the
subprojects' operations, providing information on: (a) performance against
anticipated construction and operational targets (project cost, time schedule,
production, sales, exports, and profitability); (b) reasons for any cost and
time overruns and shortfaLls in meeting original targets; and (c) actions
being taken or proposed to be taken by SBL and/or the project sponsors to
improve performance.
3.8       There are no private independent auditing firms operating in the Lao
PDR. The project, however, would be subject to the normal government audit
carried out by the Foreign Currency Department of the Ministry of Finance,
which is responsible for performing external audits of public enterprise
accounts. SBL would submit to the Association the Foreign Currency
Department's annual audit report on (i) the project accounts; and (ii) the
Special Account and SOE within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
3.9       The proposed project would help bridge the gap in the availability
of foreign exchange for the financing of industrial investment in the Lao
PDR. The main beneficiaries of the credit would be small- and medium-sized
projects, mostly in light industry, producing for export or efficient import
substitution. The project would thus contribute to increasing the currently
very low levels of production in the manufacturing subsector and improving
capacity utilization, thereby reducing unit costs of production. Funds would



- 19 -
be provided to industrial units that have been authorized to operate on an
autonomous basis under the Government's new system of public enterprise
management. While all subprojects identified so far pertain to the public
sector, prospects for enhanced private participation in the economy, directly
or through mixed enterprises, are reasonably good although private investment
will probably remain modest during the commitment period of the credit.
Within this general context, share capital investments by SBL in mixed
enterprises is seen by Government and private investors as an attractive means
of encouraging further liberalization of the economy as provided under the
NEM.
3.10      The project risks relate principally to the Government's as yet
unproven ability to manage the economic reforms it has initiated to provide
greater autonomy to public enterprises while relying to a considerably greater
extent than heretofore on the banking system for investment financing. In
particular, lack of qualified staff may impede the rapid development of a
capability for subproject appraisal within SBL. This constraint is addressed
under the project by IDA's early review of subprojects during project
appraisal and the use of specialized consultant services during project imple-
mentation. Moreover, the credit amount has been set close to the needs of the
preselected subprojects to minimize the risk of protracted disbursement.
Another risk relates to the possibility of an increase in SBL's arrears
position as public enterprises lose the assurance of adequate liquidity for
debt service they were afforded under the previous management system. Cash
flow projections will accordingly be given particular attention in subproject
evaluation. These risk elements are considered reasonable in view of the need
to provide early support to the ambitious reform process initiated by the
Government.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following terms
and conditions:
(a) the Government to keep IDA informed of any changes to be introduced
in the banking system (para. 1.19);
(b) all subprojects to have direct relevance to the industri4l sector or
related services, be sponsored by an autonomous enterprise, have a
demonstrated technical, financial, economic and environmental
viability, and be based on a sound financial outlook for the
enterprise (para. 2.5);
(c) SBL to prepare, review with the Association and adopt a Policy
Statement governing its term lending operations by December 31, 1990
(para. 2.15);



- 20 -
(d) the Government to on-lend the credit proceeds to SEL at a fixed
interest rate of 4X p.a.; SBL to on-lend to subborrowers at 8Z p.a.;
and the Government and SBL to exchange views with IDA on future
interest rates (para. 3.2);
(e) the last date for subproject submission to the Association to be
June 30, 1991 (para. 3.2);
(f)  the free ismit, under which IDA's prior approval of subloans would
not be required, to be set at $200,000 (para. 3.3); and
(g) IDA review of procurement arrangements for all contracts above
$500,000 (para. 3.5).
4.2       The following would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) the selection and approval by the Government of consultants with
qualifications and under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA for
assistance in project implementation (para. 2.8); and
(b) the Government and SBL to enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
satisfactory to the Association (para. 301).
4.3       With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 7.4 million (equivalent to $10 million) on
standard terms and conditions to be made to the Lao People's Democratic
Republic and on-lent to SBL.



LLAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Value and Volume of Production of Industrial Enterprises
1992                    IU1                      190                      19US                    390       _              1987
t'000 oue X             (060 top)                 '000 kip)               (000 bt)                 t00o kip)               ( 060 kip)
c    asue.t. (S  packs)                    01.00)     26,CI54      !:;.0S      I 2.09       312,S20     12.250      8*1,419      15.112    2.102.00)    1.J36    2,14 ,t1        2 II. 1
zic pvrod.se (e000 .n...)                   44,1)        110.4       01,00w      020.3       6349           3       394.3an                  1241,44     13369       0)200         3 13.2)11
l*g oad s*ol drink,. I'M it IIrs            14.12)     2 1,32       49.090 2*114            1,7.210      21,21S      112.0st      2.21       S113,922     29.99       *14.90       )*fts10
Ppu.ld  (iege)                                  -          -        1n,30      0             19,0s9    112.000      200.91 u    1(kl         310.100    5130,l0      39000 0o6w.au
Sail.. (Itea)                                    -          -         3S134    343,991          ,321     54.W1           *92      24,9s             -          -            Ss      1.40
aftlrgopr   (." .)                          41.0          9)4        44,3103       990       4S.0 1       13,44      124,01        2,194      4)0.421      2.4)1      492.M10       30001
Smld Iuralliey  (km 3I; ltr-w)                ,219U      2.0)1        1e.09      2721         *.1 se      S11          I39,00      1sa              -          -                        _
Pi.tas3   (n )                              1l2SC10     I3.0         Il n.12     300.1        I .29          as      2*.I6 H41                349. 3         240      20MAG03 I
lniteb. ISO bases)                               -           -        4*120       3.0l                        -             -                       -          -             -          -
Closhlog (Bea.                               4.900     11,10ss.3*0    4.340     214            1.43      2,16           I
ClelsI  couperas floe (it"") lb             17,361    426.141        119*1 1S 3.000                           -         I                     11. .   0      ...      200.13
ASCIC-su..ra   IMP3.nents (.te.T             1,244     44.l20         2.140     21.01         2.93      3,1015        159011     26.251       lb129 l     0.890        31S171     S1*4t20
Fleorlngtuood prodwt. to )                    .7100     2,300        31.933 U    31.22        33,211 3n,12S            * 419      32.241       19,141    s11000 a9,e106            o   o                   I
Wod ltwniture (ha 1; 3t.e.)                   .136 754     9          1,233     33.1  *                                    -         I .            -          -             - 1,.
Ibkd tWFrI1Wtr  (he 9)                      12,4U0          -        16.19           -        12,SH           -       11  S
TIg, recapping (lte_) ic                    13920         GIs          .94           - s
Iaaecmtrldn s(bone.)                           40      31,000         3,1no  13,994           I.1 S       3311        II,391     42,401         9,211 n   1,420        38.000    300.000
kee*Se. (boatles)                                -          -             -          -         3*21         110         2,391       IBM        11,023        Il0        13,10         920
0mpg.s tbote  e.a)                           2,00  1e,024              ,31us     0.043         3.441      4,915         4.*10      1,9s1       3s129       3.4 12       23. 21      110
c.rice Sa..0m)                                ,10      1,4"9          2,400     19.10          2.111     13,193        0.00       10,316       21.30      S1,420        10,44o    0",W00
Livestock good (tone                             -      4,001        20,94       2.9 3        2.S49       3.9US      12".04S1      I,00      I3,8"2        S,00s       223,000      4,010
S'mb "aece  Wbi)                                 -         39        13,29         03         I,s1         913         1,4"          920       231.9*      1,013        2  24s      2,114
e.C_atd 11   (4.0%)                              -        101        4*1S0         A"4         4.*1S        I"0        G l9S         Is0        *,10                     I.4 ,AG0     llO
dl3cAu                                      30,U10                   41,024          -       10.44           -       413011         ..        75.2t          ..       49.90
Ceent (eoas)                                     -                              -           -                         23.21        2,129       0e.040      I,9)0       302,000       3,400
sale (tons)                                      -      S100         3. 71       *,S21       23.10       1.100           ...     9,01S       179,90       94*20 t01,O               ).lgla
l1ri   '000 i1.e)                                -      1,60          1,44       1.92         ?.G8        3,040          ..          ..        31j0        1, 0         19,900     a , oO
Creaked sock. (to")                          _  _                     s1310     2.09          31,919     44,94         39,ol1    12,33   l 0011    303,                 92,230     02,0
.Lbary (book)                                    -          -             -          -           .      0931,0        24,130    S,213          2I1           ...        43.14
Collee (troed. gooe; v.entsln,)                  -          _             _                    2,a2i;        3         1,"11        39.1        1,144        ,24        1321 tI       .;;;
ld Ilude  only .e.rprlaes supr.Ued by NInlaary of Induase.
a nn sa upeclead by Viveata. lre#ecsra*.
rg  m   a.pew"old  by N3n1liy ..1 *rampoet  and Foa.
Uurc*    3 L*    autisosi1..



- 22 -
ANNEX 2
LAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Mining Production and Exports, 1982-87
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Est.
Tin
Production ('000 tons)            302      360     430      520     559     450
Exports ('000 tons)               304      362     400      451     744     450
Export earnings (US$'000)       1,000   1,060   1,600   1,935   1,301       950
Gypsum
Production ('000 tons)             40       70      82      100     100       70
Exports ('000 tons)                 33      51      70       70      90       70
Export earnings (US$'000)          960   1,675   1,915   2,300   1,669   1,030
Salt
Production ('000 tons)             5.1     6.5     7.8      9.1     f.6    13.8
Source: Lao PDR authorities.



- 23 -                              ANNEX 3
LAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Industrial Output Index, 1982-87
(1985 - 100)
Weight   1982   1983   1984    1985    1986    1987
Est.
Manufacturing index         0.268    91.3   77.6   52.3   100.0   123.3   136.8
Mining index                0.076    48.8   69.8   82.6   100.0   102.9    79.2
Energy index                0.656    99.3   94.2   97.3   100.0    94.7    59.1
Industrial output index    1.000    93.4   87.9   84.1   100.0   103.0    81.4
% change                             1.2   -5.8   -4.3    18.9       3.0   -21.0
Source: Mission estimates.



ANNEX 4
- 24 -
LAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SBL Credit Operations, 1983-87
(In millions of kip)
1983      1984       1985        1986        1987
Dec       Dec        Dec         Dec         June
Investment Capital                135        207       322         663         984
Agriculture                      40         50         71        119         141
Public enterprises               88        145        229        496         780
Govertment                                   -         -           -           -
Other sectors                     7         12         22         48          63
Working Capital                   995      1.062      9.5863                 4,297
Agriculture                      42         55        122        546         701
Public enterprises              744        870      1,423      2,361       3,517
Of which:  Commerce          (472)      (538)     (725)    (1,999)    (3,015)
Government                      200        120          -           -          -
Other sectors                     9         17         35          56         79
Total                      1.130      1.269     1.902       3,626       5.281
Source: Lao PDR authorities.



- 25 -                                 - 5
LAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Rate Change, 1985
(Z p.a.)
Up to                Since
June 30, 1985         July 1, 1985
Agriculture
Short-Term Loans /a
State farms                                     4.8                   4.2
Cooperatives                                    4.8                   4.56
Individuals                                     4.8                   6.6
Long-Term Loans /b
State farms                                     3.0                   3.0
Cooperatives                                    3.0                   3.6
Individuals                                     3.0                   5.4
Industry. Handicrafts and Transport
Short-Term Loans
State enterprises                               4.8                   4.8
Cooperatives                                    4.8                   5.04
Individuals                                     4.8                   8.4
Long-Term Loans
State enterprises                               3.0                   3.6
Cooperatives                                    3.0                   4.2
Individuals                                     3.0                   6.0
Commerce and Trade
Short-Term Loans
State enterprises                               7.2                   7.2
Private enterprises                            12.0                  15.0
Long-Term Loans
State enterprises                               3.0                   3.6
Civil Servants and Government Staff:
Personal Loans
Short-term loans                                  4.8                    4.2
Long-term loans                                    3.0                   3.0
/a Short-term loans are for periods up to 12 months.
7T Long-term loans are for equipment and capital items for periods over one
year and up to 3-7 yeras.



- 26 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
Draft Terms of Reference
1.        To assist with the implementation of an Industrial Credit Project
financed by IDA and designed to finance small- and medium-sized industries
(SMI), the State Bank of the Lao People's Democratic Republic requires the
following technical assistance services:
(1) a Project Advisor to assist with the creation within SBL's Credit
Department of a Project Evaluation and Monitoring Cell.  The role of
the Advisor will be to ensure the efficient implementation of the
project from a credit intermediation standpoint, and to contribute
to the institution building objective of establishing progressively
an in-house project evaluation capability within SBL. Accordingly,
the Advisor will, inter alia,
-    contribute to the preparation of evaluation reports for the
subprojects to be financed under the project;
-    supervise the implementation of subprojects, ensuring in
particular the adequacy of tender procedures, choice of
contractors, procurement of equipment, and execution of
contracts;
-    monitor the performance of enterprises during the period of
loan repayments so as to be in a position to identify potential
problems and suggest solutions;
-    prepare a Project Manual to guide future project appraisal and
supervision by SBL;
-    train SBL staff in project evaluation techniques through
seminars and on-the-job exposure.



- 27 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(2)  a Technical Advisor responsible for organizing an Enterprise
Assistance Cell linked to the Project Evaluation and Monitoring Cell
within SBL's Credit Department. This cell, which will be staffed
with a few Lao technicians, will be responsible for providing, on a
selective basis, technical assistance to borrowing enterprises in
the following areas:
-    plant organization
-    rationalization of production
-    conception and execution of machining and assembling tools
-    workforce organization and productivity improvement measures
-    equipment upgrading
-    product conception for export and/or domestic consumption
-    on-the-job training or producLion sLaff
2.        The assistance to be provided by the Project Advisor will be
periodic, requiring short (three to four-week), regular visits over a
sufficiently long period to monitor the implementation of the subprojects
identified for financing under the IDA credit, identify and evaluate a number
of additional subprojects, and progressively build up a local expertise for
project evaluation. The workload, however, would be expected to decline over
time. Overall, an input of 24 man-weeks is expected as follows:
-        1st year:    4x3 weeks
-        2nd year:    3x2 weeks
-        3rd year:    3x2 weeks
This should be sufficient to ensure the satisfactory establishment of the
Project Evaluation and Monitoring Cell and initial training of Lao
personnel. The workload, however, would be reviewed at the end of each year
to ensure its adequacy in relation to the project requirements.
3.        The assistance to be provided by the Technical Advisor for the
establishment of a small, permanent advisory cell will require a continuous
inr:t^er    a ,eri^A nf threne yeara  ith the rcll AAVibA;ng RPverAl enterprises
in parallel. In addition to its advisory function, the cell would be expected
to contribute to the formation of managers familiar with modern management
techniques.
Background and Experience
Project Advisor:
Technical background:  7-10 years experience in evaluation of SMI
projects; familiarity with modern tools of economic and financial
analysis of industrial projects.
Technical Advisor:
General engineering background with emphasis on mechanical
engineering, 5-7 years experience.



- 28 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pipeline of Subprojects
1.        SBL's pipeline of subprojects was reviewed in detail during the
preparation and appraisal of the project. Twelve subprojects were identified
which, subject to completion of the evaluation initiated at appraisal, would
be eligible for financing under the project. The analysis carried out at
appraisal is described in the report "Mission d'Etude du Secteur Industriel en
Republique Democratique Populaire Lao", which can be found in the project
file. This annex provides a brief description of the 12 subprojecLu.
Textile Project
2.        The enterprise, which is under the purview of the Prefecture of
Vientiane, was declared autonomous in September 1987. It produces mixed
cotton/polyester material for the domestic market. Both cotton yarn and
polyester are presently imported. Weaving and related equipment are old and
in a poor state of repair.
3.        The project would be undertaken in two phases.  A first phase would
consist in the rehabilitation of existing facilities, which is expected to
result in a doubling of productive capacity. Investment is estimated at
US$270,000. A second phase, involving the acquisition of new weaving mills,
would be considered afterwards. The acquisition of ginning units to promote
the production of industrial quality cotton by farmer cooperatives is also
considered.
Vientiane Municipality Tailoring Co.
4.        The enterprise, which is under the purview of the Prefecture of
Vientine, vas declared autonomogs in 1987.  It produces clothing of various
kinds.
5.        The project comprises two independent components: (a) the acquisi-
tion of additional sewing machines to increase the enterprise's cloth making
capacity; and (b) the installation of a jersey knitting unit. Estimated costs
of investment are US$130,000 and US$580,000 (including working capital),
respectively. While production has so far been essentially for the domestic
market, the company has recently entered into a number of export contracts.
The first component of the project would help pursue this export potential.
Foreign exchange earnings are estimated at US$320,000 p.a. The second compo-
nent would aim at the domestic market; a detailed evaluation of domestic sales
potential would be prepared before the component is approved for financing.



- 29 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
2nd December Sewing Factory
6.        The enterprise, which is under the purview of the Prefecture of
Vientiane, was declared autonomous in 1987. It produces clothing of various
kinds, mostly for the domestic market. Some export sales were realized in
1987.
7.        The project has the objective of increasing production capacity to
help address the export potential of the enterprise. Investment in sewing
machines and other equipment is estimated at US$125,000, excluding a new
building financed out of additional equity subscribed by the Prefecture (Kip
20 million). Export earnings, net of imported inputs, is estimated at about
US$290,000 p.a.
Agricultural Tool Factory
8.        The enterprise, which is under the purview of the Prefecture of
Vientiane, has been autonomous since February 1987. Its activities are very
diversified, and consist in the production of high priority products (nails,
barbed wire, hand tools, metal pails, etc.). Equipments are relatively recent
but put to poor use and badly maintained.
9.        The project would have the objective of increasing the capacity of
production of nails and barbed wire, two high priority items in the construc-
tion industry and the agricultural sector. Investment costs are estimated at
US$320,000 (excluding an increase in working capital of US$100,000). Final
approval of the project would be subject to the availability of technical
assistance from the Technical Advisor in SBL's Enterprise Assistance Cell.
Electro Vientiane
10.       The enterprise, which is under the purview of the Prefecture of
Vientiane, has been autonomous since 1987. Its main activity consists in the
repairing of electrical equipment (refrigerators, air-conditioners, electric
motors). In 1987, the company initiated the production of small electric
components. Equipment is very limiLed, more of the haadicraft kind than
really industrial.
11.       The project would develop the production of small electrical compo-
nents needed for the program of electrification. Investment costs are esti-
mated at US$240,000, including working capital requirements. Final approval
of the project would be subject to the availability of technical assistance
from the Technical Advisor.
Distillery Lao Vieng
12.       The enterprise, which is under the purview of the Prefecture pf
Vientiane, has been autonomous since September 1987. It produces several
kinds of alcoholic beverages as well as alcohol for medical purposes. The
project involves the replacement of the antiquated wood burning boiler and
related pumping equipment at an estimated cost of US$80,000. The new boiler
will be able to burn sawdust, thus saving on raw material costs. Production
will also increase somewhat.



- 30 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
Brewery
13.       The enterprise, which operates under the purview of the Ministry of
Industry, has been autonomous since 1986. The project would have the objec-
tive of increasing beer production capacity from 26,000 to 56,000 hectoliters
in three years. Total cost of investment is estimated at US$700,000.
Tobacco Factory
14.       The enterprise, which operates under the purview of the Ministry of
Industry, has been autonomous since 1986. This is one of the largest
companies in the country. It produces various kinds of cigarettes, partly
(20Z) for export. Equipment has been well maintained and is in good order.
Cigarettes are made with a mixture of local tobacco and imported tobacco. All
other inputs (paper, filters) are imported
15.       The project would provide for the installation of a modern facility
for the treatment of local tobacco with a view to (a) reducing the proportion
of imported tobacco in the manufacturing of cigarettes, and (b) exporting
excess tobacco production. Tobacco production would increase progressively to
1,000 tons p.a. in 1990 and 4,000 tons p.a. in 2000. Total investment is
estimated at US$3 million, including US$2.5 million for imported equipment and
machinery and US$0.5 million for buildings. The latter would be financed
partly from internal cash generation and partly from equity contributions from
the Government. The main issue relates to the supply of raw tobacco, which is
expected to coma mostly from a new plantation owned by the enterprise. A
detailed evaluation of this aspect of the project would be provided before the
project ;-s approved for financing.
Plastic and Glass Factory
16.       This enterprise, which operates under the purview of the Prefecture
of Vientiane, has been autonomous since August 1987. Equipments are recent
but not utilized very effectively. The project would aim at increasing
productive capacity through the acquisition of additional equipment and
improving produliuvity and capacity utilization through the provision of
technical assistance from the Enterprise Assistance Cell. The latter would be
a condition of IDA financing of the investment. Total investment costs,
including the acquisition of essential spare parts, is estimated at
US$200,000.
Ceramic Factory
17.       This enterprise, which operates under the purview of the Prefecture
of Vientiane, has been autonomous since 1987. It produces a wide array of
dish and table wares.  The objective of the project is to increase production
capacity from 70,000 items p.a. to 110,000 items p.a. Investment costs are
estimated at US$150,000. Most inputs are locally available and production
will meet an essential need of the population.



- 31 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
Tannery
18.       This enterprise, which operates under the purview of the Prefecture
of Vientiane, has been autonomous since March 1987. So far its activities are
limited to the gathering of raw hides and their export in dry or pickled
form. It is not yet involved in actual tanning operations.
19.       The project would involve the installation of a modern tannery with
a capacity of 100 hides/day in finished products and 250 hides/day at the
intermediate "wet blue" stage. Investment costs are estimated at
US$615,000. At the instigation of IDA, appropriate water treatment facilities
were included in the project scope to minimize the environmental impact of the
project.  Technical assistance will be provided under UNDP financing.
Vientiane Prefecture Forestry Co.
20.       The enterprise was declared autonomous in 1987.  It is responsible
for the exploration of a forestry concession of 40,000 ha, the operation of
five sawmills, and the manufacturing of wood furniture. Wood production was
about 21,000 m3 in 1987. The project would involve the acquisition of felling
and transport equipment. Production, which is limited by government decree,
would not increase but would be facilitated. The company is responsible for
regular reforestation of its concession and is accordingly operating a number
of nurseries.



- 32 -
ANNEX 8
LAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
ProJected Disbursement Schedule /a
(US$ million)
Year       Period          Amount         Cumulative         Standard profile (Z)
FY89       Jan-Jun          i.i               ;.;                     "
FY90       Jul-Dec          0.9               2.0                     20
Jan-Jun          1.8               3.8                     38
FY91       Jul-Dec          1.8               5.6                     56
Jan-Jun          1.5               7.1                     71
FY92       Jul-Dec          1.2               8.3                     83
Jan-Jun         0.8                9.1                     91
FY93       Jul-Dec          0.5               9.6                     91
Jan-Jun         0.4               10.0                    100
/a Estimated dlsbursements largely conform to the disbursement profile for
IDF operations in the Asia region.



- 33 -                               ANNEX 9
LAO PDR
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1. Industrial Sector Survey, Lao PDR, March 1987
2. Mission d'Etude du Secteur Industriel en RDP Lao (Review of SBL's pipeline
of subprojects, Jan/Feb 1988)



MAP SECTION



t    ~          ~~~~~~~ ,  d2-                                          104                                            106  -cit
22^\ X~~C HI|NA  4;'>i  >
22--                                                                                                  2\}s^|tr   
/  S '   A Ce         R                                                                                         h         -      >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
BURMA                                       \ 't+tCSI                                                                                             {Ln' 
B U R M A  A   e -  H             \\             8                                                                                                             sa:r' ~~~XIANa KHOAN
SJA'1MTttA - \_]__xS X \WE L s~~~~~~~~~~~~~W!'
>\g~~~~~~~~~~"                                    NA  No                       S OL( XerHATt.A
,                      & 47   8             i             XlAtt   \ KhOAhG                     ,Khrs
5  \/     ,%(I,                         o                S     s          \       S         AK-.-   ..___ 
LAO     ~ PEOPLE  DEORAI  ,R-EPUVBLErINAC
20 - 979tlKtU9A    
18t    ~           ~~~~~ ( -192                      3-9                                            <                    '\l1
INDUSTRIAL CNPAEDI P                      ROJECT ROAM>r;r  
U.0 ndPOVEDSC ARY ROAD                                                                                                 5                 t/
211 sAIPRS                                                                   THALAN                                                 A, \ Qst
PROVINE BOUNDARIERbS
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  -  
)              f       , j   Att +Ws,        )
0          50         l oo        I SO                                                                         > /^                            tfA-&t  
KILOMETERIS              I  ~t <go<   
'               Mi0SOr                                 DEMOCRATICKAMPUCHEA9                                                  4/                                           r



