Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1947 LAO
                    (Industrial Credit Project)
                              between
                 LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 16, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1947 LAO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  16,  1988,  between  LAO  PEOPLE'S
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the  Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
France (France) a grant  (hereinafter  called the French Grant) in
an amount of FF 3,450,000  to  assist  in  financing Part B of the
Project on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the French Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and France; and
     (C)  the Project will be carried out by the State Bank of the
Lao  People's  Democratic  Republic   (SBL)  with  the  Borrower's
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the SBL  the  proceeds  of  the Credit as provided in
Page  2
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and the SBL;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth  in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "SBL"  means  the  State   Bank   of  the  Lao  People's
Democratic Republic, established pursuant to the Banking Law;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and SBL, of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SBL pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such  term  includes  all  schedules supplemental to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Banking Law" means the  Borrower's Banking Law No. 001,
dated August 1, 1981, which established SBL;
     (e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by SBL to an  Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project
out of the equivalent of the  proceeds of the Credit relent to SBL
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (f)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
     (g)  "Investment" means an investment  other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by SBL in an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to SBL under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (h)  "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which SBL
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which it proposes to
make or has made an Investment;
     (i)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project in the industrial  sector  or related services carried out
by an Investment Enterprise  utilizing  the proceeds of a Sub-loan
or Investment;
     (j)  "Kip" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (k)  "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and
investment policy to  be  prepared  and  approved  by the Board of
Directors of SBL  pursuant  to  Section  2.08  (a)  of the Project
Agreement; and
Page  3
     (l)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to seven million  four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement  for  amounts  paid  (or,  if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to  be paid) by SBL on account
of withdrawals made by  an  Investment Enterprise under a Sub-Loan
or Investment to meet  the  reasonable  cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project  in respect of which the with-
drawal from the Credit Account is requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars  a  special account in Banque pour le
Commerce Exterieur Lao on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower and SBL of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing  October  1,  1998  and  ending  April  1,  2028.  Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
Page  4
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  SBL  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                    Description of the Project;
                   Use of Proceeds of the Credit
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SBL to  perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of  the  Project  Agreement  all  the  obligations  of SBL
therein set forth, shall take  and  cause  to be taken all action,
including the provision of  funds,  facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to  enable SBL to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the  proceeds of the Credit to
SBL under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and SBL under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association  which  shall include: (i) a rate
of interest of 4.0%  per  annum  on the principal amount withdrawn
and outstanding from  time  to  time;  and  (ii)  repayment by SBL
within twenty years, including a period of grace of five years.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except  as  the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
Page  5
agree, procurement of  the  goods  and  services  required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  2  to  the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by SBL pursuant to  Section 2.04 of the Project Agree-
ment.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  were  made  on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) (i)  of  this  Section  and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  annually  review with the
Association and SBL, and, if  necessary, adjust the interest rates
to be charged by SBL  in  its lending operations under the Project
in light of SBL's cost  of  funds and profitabilitity and interest
and   inflation   rates   in    the   Borrower's   territory   and
internationally, in order to  ensure  that  the  final rate to the
Investment Enterprises remains positive in real terms.
     Section 4.03. Prior to introducing any changes in its banking
system the Borrower shall: (i)  inform the Association of any such
Page  6
proposed changes, and  (ii)  afford  the  Association a reasonable
opportunity to make comments thereon.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  SBL shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that SBL will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Banking  Law  shall  have  been  amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived  so  as  to,  in  the opinion of the
Association, materially and adversely affect the ability of SBL to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SBL or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
               the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
               terminated in whole  or  in  part,  pursuant to the
               terms of the agreement providing therefor.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation or termination  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower and SBL; and
     (b)  any event specified in  paragraph  (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
French  Grant   Agreement   (other   than,   if   applicable,  the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
     (b)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement  has  been entered into by
the Borrower and SBL, respectively; and
Page  7
     (c)  the  consultants  under  Part  B  of  the  Project  with
qualifications and  experience  satisfactory  to  the Association,
have been  appointed  by  the  Borrower  under  terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by SBL, and  is  legally  binding  upon SBL in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or  ratified  by,  and  is  legally  binding  upon, the
Borrower and SBL in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Sections 4.02 and 4.03  of  this  Agreement  and the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section  5.02  of  this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date  on  which  the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  Finance  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           Minister of Finance
           Ministry of Finance
           Vientiane
           Lao People's Democratic Republic
           Cable address:
                MINFINANCE
                Vientiane
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
Page  8
written.
                        LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Done Somvorachit
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                   7,400,000       100% of amounts
     and Invest-                                 disbursed by
     ments                                       SBL for foreign e
xpenditures,
                                                 local expendi-
                                                 tures (ex-
                                                 factory), and
                                                 interest during
                                                 construction
                                                 on Sub-loans
                              ____________
          TOTAL
                                 7,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower,  calculated  on  the basis of the
Borrower's exchange rate for commercial transactions.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a Sub-loan  or Investment unless such Sub-
loan or Investment has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
Page  9
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing
such productive facilities  in  the  industrial sector and related
services  in  the  Lao   People's   Democratic  Republic  as  will
contribute to the economic and  social development of the country,
and (ii) to develop  SBL's  capacity  to provide term financing to
the industrial sector.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
     The financing of specific  development projects through loans
to and investments in enterprises within the industrial sector.
Part B
     Provision of technical assistance and training to SBL and the
Investment Enterprises.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
               "15. The term  'Project  Agreement' has the meaning
          set forth  in  paragraph  (b)  of  Section  1.02  of the
          Development Credit Agreement."
     (3)  The  words  "the  Association  may,  by  notice  to  the
Borrower, terminate the right of  the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon  the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be  cancelled"  set forth at the end of
Section  6.03  are  deleted   and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:
               "or (e) by  the  date  specified in sub-paragraph 4
          (c) of Schedule 1  to  the  Project Agreement, the Asso-
          ciation shall, in respect of  any portion of the Credit:
          (i) have received no  applications or requests permitted
          under sub-paragraphs (a)  or  (b)  of said paragraph; or
          (ii) have denied any  such applications or requests, the
          Association may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, terminate
          the right to submit such applications or approvals or to
          make withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account, as the case
          may be, with respect  to  such  amount or portion of the
          Credit.  Upon the giving  of such notice, such amount or
          portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  10
     (a)  the term "eligible Category"  means Category 1 set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Investment Projects and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to the  eligible  Category in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule  1  to  this  Agreement, provided, however,
that  notwithstanding  the  provisions   of  paragraph  3  (b)  of
Schedule 1 to the Project  Agreement, payments for expenditures to
be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  free-limit Sub-loans may be
made out of the Special  Account before the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof.
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures
only  if  the   Association   shall  subsequently  authorize  such
withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $660,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  in  the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of   the  Special  Account  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               the Special  Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
               shall have requested and  as  shall have been shown
               by said documents and  other  evidence to have been
               made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible
               expenditures. All such  deposits shall be withdrawn
               by the Association  from  the  Credit Account under
               the  eligible  Category,   and  in  the  respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
               said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Page  11
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated  to  the  eligible  Category  less  the  amount  of  any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Category shall follow  such  procedures  as  the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account  for  subsequent   withdrawal   or   for  cancellation  in
accordance  with  the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
