OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1947 LAO
Project Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE BANK OF THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Dated                              , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1947 LAO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      4, 1988 between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC  TION (the Association) and the
STATE BANK OF THE LAO PEOPLE'S D  OCRATIC REPUBLIC (SBL).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Lao People's Democratic Republic (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SBL agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement; and
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and SBL, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to SBL on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS SBL, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of SBL
Section 2.01. SBL declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project in


﻿-2-
accordance with a plan of action agreed with the Association and
shall conduct its operations and affairs, in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with the Banking Law and Statement of
Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) SBL undertakes that, unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans and Investments will be made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) SBL shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of SBL; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. SBL shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. SBL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SBL shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) SBL shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SBL shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by SBL of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. If SBL establishes or acquires any Subsidiary,
SBL shall cause such Subsidiary to observe and perform the obliga-
tions of SBL under this Agreement to the extent to which such
obligations shall or may be made applicable thereto, as though
such obligations were binding upon such Subsidiary.
Section 2.08. (a) SBL shall prepare and, after reviewing it
with the Association, adopt by December 31, 1990 a Statement of
Policy governing SBL's term lending and investment operations in
the industrial sector.
(b) SBL shall exchange views with the Association on any
proposal to modify its Statement of Policy.
Section 2.09. SBL shall annually review with the Association
and the Borrower, and, if necessary, adjust the interest rate to
be charged by SBL in its lending operations under the Project in
light of SBL's cost of funds and profitability and interest and
inflation rates in the Borrower's territory and internationally,
in order to ensure. that the final rate to the Investment
Enterprises remains positive in real terms.
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) SBL shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of SBL.
(b) SBL shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial statements
(b&lance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) in respect of the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case (A) not later than six months after
the end of each such year, its unaudited Project
accounts, and (B) not later than nine months after


﻿-4-
the end of each such year, certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited
and the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. SBL shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including Kip) used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SBL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SBL of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SBL:
State Bank of the Lao People's Democratic
Republic
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Cable address                    Telex:
STABANLAO                      4304 BNL VTE LS
Vientiane
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SBL or by SBL on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed
by. its President, or by such other person or persons as the
President shall designate in writing, and SBL shall furnish to the


﻿-6-
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 5
Regional Vice President
Asia
STATE BANK OF THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC
B yR
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
and Investments
1.   Principal Terms and Conditions of SBL Sub-loans:
(a) Sub-loans shall bear interest at a rate of not less than
8% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
(b) Repayment periods for Sub-loans shall normally not
extend beyond seven years, and, in any case, shall not exceed
twelve years, including a period of grace of three years.
(c) Investment Enterprises shall bear the foreign exchange
risk on Sub-loans between the dollar and the Kip. In order to
implement this principle, each Sub-loan shall be denominated in
dollars, with the principal amount equal to the dollar equivalent
of the amounts disbursed from the Credit Account on account of
such Sub-loan, valued at the respective dates of withdrawal.
(d) Investment Projects shall: (i) be in the industrial
sector and related services; (ii) if in the public sector, be
sponsored by an autonomous enterprise; (iii) have a demonstrated
technical, financial, economic and environmental ability; and
(iv) be based on a sound financial outlook for the enterprise.
2.   Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the aggregate
amount of Investments shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
3.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit unless:
(a) the Sub-loan or Investment for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by the Association and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the
date on which the Association shall have received the application
and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in
respect of such Sub-loan or Investment; or
(b) after the Association has reviewed and approved five
Sub-loans pursuant to the terms of sub-paragraph (a) above, the
Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit
Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from
the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have been made


﻿-8-
not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received the request and information
required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of the Development Credit
Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a
Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of
$200,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
4.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub
loan) or an Investment to the Association for approval, SBL shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to
the Association, together with (i) a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan or of repayment of the amount of the Credit to be
used for the Investment; and (iii) such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by SBL for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and (ii) the terms and zonditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c) Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before June 30, 1991.
5.   Sub-loans and Investments shall be made on terms whereby SBL
shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Association and SBL, including, in the case
of any Sub-loan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate,
in the case of any Investment, the right to:
(a) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;


﻿-9-
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d) require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association or SBL
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by
such Investment Enterprise to perform its obligations under its
contract with SBL.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Goods and services shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of price quotations
obtained from qualified4 suppliers from at least three countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association; provided, however, that spare parts
for existing equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $200,000
equivalent for eaCh Investment Ente.rriSe, may be p      e
the original suppliers through direct contracting on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Review of procurement decisions by the Association:
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
pontract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of
which the Association has authorized withdrawals
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


