Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14900-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 20, 1995
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Country Department III
Industry and Energy Operations Division



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
(as of July 1995)
US$1.00  =   Rp 2,247
Rp I million  =   US$445
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31/July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
APEC           Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
BAPPENAS    Indonesian Planning Commission
BISm           Semarang Industrial R & D Institute
BPPI           Agency for Industrial Research and Development, MOI
BPPT           Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
DAPATI         Bahasa Indonesia name of the Technology Services Matching Grant
Scheme
DRN            National Research Council
DSN            National Standards Council
FDI            Foreign Direct Investment
GOI            Government of Indonesia
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HPEAC          High Performing East Asian Countries
IRDCI          R&D Institute for the Chemicals Industry, MOI
ITDP           Industrial Technology Development Project
KADIN          Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
KIM            National Institute of Metrology, LIPI
LIPI           Indonesian Institute of Sciences
MENRISTEK   State Ministry of Research and Technology
MOI            Ministry of Industry
MSTQ           Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
NIEs           Newly Industrialized Economies
PMIU           Project Monitoring and Implementation Unit
PTSIs          Public Technology Support Institutions
PUSTAN         Center for Industrial Standards, MOI
R&D            Research and Development
RDCAC          R&D Center for Applied Chemistry, LIPI
RDMS           R&D Management Systems
S&T            Science and Technology
SMIs           Small and Medium Industries
SOEs           Statements of Expenditure
TSO            Technology Services Organization, LIPI
TBIS           Technology and Business Integration Unit, BPPT



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION ..........................................1
2. INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS:
THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY ..........................................3
A.    Industrial Sector Background ..........................................3
B.    Science and Technology  Strategy and Institutions ..........................................5
3.  THE PROJECT ..........................................9
A.    Project Origin and Formulation ...................................9
B.  Project Objectives ...................................9
C.    Project Components and Description ..................................                                    10
D.  Project Costs ..................................                                                           17
E.  Financing Plan ..................................                                                          19
4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                          .......................... 20
A.  Implementation Agencies ..................................                                                20
B.  Project Coordination ..................................                                                   20
C.  Implementation Schedule ..................................                                                 20
D.    Procurement and Disbursement ..................................                                         21
E.    Project Accounts and Audits ..................................                                           24
F.    Project Monitoring, Reporting and Supervision ..................................                        25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission  comprising  Messrs. Darius Mans
(Task Manager), Yuling Zhou, and Ms. Dawn Vermilya (EA31E) and consultants Ramesh
Mashelkar, Robert Toth and Richard Morris, who visited Indonesia in May/June 1995. Peer
reviewers were Messrs. M. Goldman and S. Gray. Ms. Francine Coscolluela provided assistance
in document preparation. Mrs. Marianne Haug, Director (EA3DR) and Mr. Peter R. Scherer,
Division Chief (EA31E) have endorsed the project.



5.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                                                       .................................... 26
A.      Rationale for Bank  Involvement ...............................................                                         26
B.   Project Justification ...............................................                                                      27
C.   Project Risks ...............................................                                                              29
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                                 .. 30
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1   Degree of Self-Financing of Selected Public R&D Systems .............................7
3.1      Summary  of Project Costs by  Component ...............................................                                 18
3.2   Financing Plan ...............................................                                                            19
4.1   Procurement Arrangements ...............................................                                                  21
4.2 Allocation of Loan Proceeds .                                                                                               24
ANNEXES
I    Documents in Project File .........................................                                                        32
2       Components Project Cost Summary ..........................................                                              33
3       Components by Financiers ..........................................                                                     39
4        Implementation  Responsibilities and  Schedule ..........................................                                 41
5       Key Performance Indicators .........................................                                                     58
6    Technical Assistance .........................................                                                             66
7       Schedule of Disbursements ..........................................                                                    67
8       Supervision Staffing and Schedule ..........................................                                            68
9       MSTQ  Needs and  Opportunities in  Indonesia ..........................................                                  69
10      The Market for Technology  Services in Indonesia ......................................... 72
11  Industrial Technology Services Matching Grant Program
lmplementation Manual .........................................                                                  79
12   Action Plan for Commercialization of Public Technology
Support Institutions ..........................................                                                112



INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Indonesia
Implementing
Agencies:          BPPI, BPPT and LIPI
Beneficiaries:      BPPI, BPPT and LIPI
Amount:             US$47.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description:
Project Objectives: The objective of the project is to enhance
the competitiveness of Indonesian industry, particularly of small
and medium industries (SMIs), by: (a) providing public and
private technology support services; (b) facilitating the access
to  public  and  private  technology  service  providers;
(c) strengthening public technology support institutions; and
(d) improving the formulation and coordination of industrial
technology policies.
Project Description: The project would: (a) strengthen
Indonesia's system of industrial metrology, standards, testing
and quality (MSTQ) support services; (b) support the diffusion
of good technology practices through a cost-sharing matching
grant fund to finance the competitive provision of technology
upgrading services to SMIs by both public and private
technology suppliers; (c) provide assistance for reorienting the
public research and development labs towards supporting more
effective technology development in private industry, especially
SMIs; and (d) strengthen the capacity to formulate and
coordinate technology and industrial strategies, policies and
programs.



- ii -
Project Benefits
and Risks:
Project Benefits: The Country Assistance Strategy emphasizes
the importance of improving Indonesia's competitiveness and the
need for a shift toward a productivity based economy and the
complimentary private provision of supporting infrastructure
services. The proposed project addresses each of these areas
through its support for more effective provision of technology
services to help improve the competitiveness of Indonesian
industry.  The  package  of policy  reforms,  institutional
strengthening and capacity building is expected to help enhance
the competitiveness of Indonesia's SMI manufacturing sector,
the target group of the project. While the benefits of the actions
supported under the project do not lend themselves to precise
quantitative analysis, there is ample evidence from the high
performing East Asian countries that effective technology
support services yield high economic and financial returns for
manufacturing companies through reduced product defects, faster
manufacturing turnaround times, lower inventories, higher
productivity, increased domestic and export sales and new
product designs. These benefits are multiples of the cost of the
corresponding services and substantially increase the returns on
SMIs' existing investments in plant, equipment and human
capital. A least-cost approach to project design was taken to
increase the effectiveness and utilization of the existing
technology service infrastructure primarily through changes in
incentives and management practices, accountability, and
systems; and restructuring, rather than through investments in
additional equipment. The project will lead to increased private
provision   of   technology   services   and   increasing
commercialization and result orientation of public industrial
technology services, with greater accountability and transparency
in public resource use.
Project Risks:   The reorientation of the public technology
infrastructure towards commercial use and result-oriented
management, the effective coordination of Government policies
for industry and science and technology and the development of
competent private service providers may be slower than
envisaged. Similarly, the SMI sector may be slow in accessing
the new services being offered. To help minimize these risks,
project preparation was extended to: (a) help build consensus
within government on the need for and ways to achieve this
strategic reorientation of public support for technology



- iii -
development, including drawing on best practices from other
countries' experiences; (b) develop a new policy framework that
will drive the public technology support institutions (PTSIs) to
commercialize their research and development and require from
them greater accountability for achieving measurable results, and
increased transparency and better management of the operations
of the PTSIs; (c) provide the PTSIs under the project an
opportunity to develop sound business plans for their
commercialization based on assessments of market demands and
build a pipeline of technology projects with private industry; and
(d) obtain the participation of private industry and professional
consulting associations in project design and implementation.
Estimated Project Cost:
- Comp  et               --US $-MiDii. n
---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . Local  .. ...
Loe*l  :~:~F0reig          JAtal
Improving MSTQ                       0.4            4.3             4.7
KIM                                 0.1           1.0              1.1
PUSTAN                              0.3           3.3              3.6
Technology Service Matching           9.5           4.9            14.4
Grant Scheme (DAPATI)
R& D Management                      4.1           28.5            32.6
R&D Systems for BPPT                1.4           11.1            12.5
R&D Systems for LIPI                1.2           9.0             10.2
R&D Systems for MOI                 1.5           8.4              9.9
Institutional Strengthening          0.8            4.2             5.0
S&T Mgmt and Policy Unit            0.5           1.9             2.4
Agency for Industrial R&D           0.3           2.3              2.6
Total Base Costs                     14.8          41.9            56.7
Physical Contingencies               0.3            1.9             2.2
Price Contingencies                   0.5           1.5             2.0
Total Costs                          15.6          45.3            60.9



i v -
Financing Plan:
a . _ E i, ~~~~~. . .   .   .    . . ,,                                               . .   . .   . . : . .   . . . . . . . . . .   . .   . . . .
Com.. .. .........M"110try                                                       IBRD...d
Improving MSTQ                                   0.8                   0.0                 4.4                  5.2
Technology Service                                0.0                  6.2                  8.4                 14.6
Matching Grant Scheme
(DAPATI)                                    _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
R&D Management                                    5.8                   0.0               29.8                 35.6
Institutional Strengthening                       1.1                  0.0                 4.4                 5.5
Total ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ........
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million)
- E -::: : :-:E E.-... . -.-..  .. .. .. . ...::: E  i: - :XXE  E;:~~  .. ...           . ....,EiE   ::EiE   ....
.... .   ... . . . . . .   .. ..   . _  . . .   .   .   .  ..   . . .   ... .    . . .  . . . .  .   . .   . .  .   . . .    . .  .   .    .   .. .   .. .   .
Annual                       4.7             16.9              13.2              7.5             3.8                0.9
Cumulative                   4.7 ol21.6                       34.8            42.3             46.1                47.0
Rate of Return:                            Not Applicable
Poverty Category:                          Not Applicable
Project Identification No.: ID-PA-3978



INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01 Led by the rapid growth of the manufacturing sector and industrial exports in
particular, Indonesia has achieved high rates of growth over the past quarter century,
comparable to other high performing East Asian countries. The main source of that
growth has been Indonesia's rich natural resources and low-wage labor force. However,
the prospects for sustaining rapid growth on that basis are diminishing. International
competition in labor-intensive manufacturing is intensifying with trade liberalization in
APEC, the global reduction of trade barriers and the emergence of a number of other low-
wage competitor countries. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) recognizes that
improved productivity, product quality, reliability and delivery will be central to
sustaining the country's export drive, overall economic growth and the growth of
employment.
1.02 GOI has undertaken a number of measures to achieve these objectives. Continued
economic deregulation and trade reform are putting pressure on firms to upgrade their
technological capabilities and improve competitiveness. In addition, access to foreign
technology to enhance competitiveness has substantially improved as a result of recent
efforts to create one of the most liberal foreign direct investment and trade regimes in
East Asia. As a complement, Indonesia spends about US$300 million annually on public
research and development (R&D) to harness externalities and buttress the limited R&D
done by private industry as well as to enhance the limited capacity of the private sector to
absorb and adapt imported technology. Indonesia has made substantial investments in the
development of scientific and technical manpower in its public technology support
institutions (PTSIs) and the Bank has assisted in this effort.
1.03 However, there is a major disconnect between the PTSIs and private industry.
Technical support services of the PTSIs are weak as are their marketing efforts to reach
out to industry, particularly small and medium industries (SMIs). Experiences of other
high performing countries in East Asia and Indonesia's ownl experience in several recent
Bank supported projects demonstrate the important contribution technology support
services can make to enhance the competitiveness of firms, especially SMIs, in domestic
and export markets.  But the domestic supply of those services is limited and is
predominantly provided by the PTSIs which employ about 80 percent of the country's
scarce scientific, technical and engineering manpower. While large firms can easily
import those services, there is a market imperfection for SMIs caused by a lack of
information about the availability of outside expertise for enhancing their



-2-
competitiveness; their perception that technology services are expensive and poor value
for money; and their lack of awareness of the potential gains in competitiveness that
could be achieved from using technology support services to adopt best management
practices. As a result, demand for those services has been somewhat limited. However,
competitive pressures on firms to upgrade their competitiveness through technology
upgrading is expected to increase as a result of growing competition in world markets for
Indonesia's manufactured products and the country's preannounced plan to significantly
reduce import protection over the next few years in the context of GATT and APEC
commitments. The proposed project would support measures to reorient Indonesia's
public technology support institutions to help meet the growing demands of the private
sector, especially SMIs, and encourage the private provision of technology support
services to improve competitiveness.



- 3 -
2. INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS: THE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGY
A.  Industrial Sector Background
2.01 The Indonesian economy has achieved consistently high rates of economic growth
in the last 25 years--averaging over 6 percent per year which is comparable to other high
performing East Asian countries. Per capita income increased more than fifteen-fold to
reach US$884 in 1994, and Indonesia has joined the ranks of middle-income countries.
Rapid economic growth has been led by the growth of the manufacturing sector which
has exceeded 10 percent per year since 1985/86. Manufacturing now accounts for about
21 percent of GDP and has become the largest sector in the economy.
2.02 Reform of economic policies played a major role in stimulating rapid growth of the
manufacturing sector. The reform effort was occasioned by the collapse in oil prices in
the early 1980s and the consequent prospect of slow economic growth. This led the
Government to reassess its economic strategy and embark on an economic reform
program in 1986 with the introduction of a series of periodic "deregulation packages" to
dismantle the restrictions that had been put in place during the previous period of inward-
oriented economic policies. The deregulation process continues today. Maintaining
macroeconomic stability through the judicious use of fiscal, monetary and exchange rate
policies also remains at the core of the reform program.
2.03 The deregulation process focused on three broad areas: (a) the trade regime,
including a reduction in the coverage of NTBs in manufacturing production, a lowering
of the tariff ceilings and the number of tariff rates; the provision of free trade status for
exporters through the introduction of duty drawback schemes; and reform of the customs
administration by transferring customs surveillance for nearly all imports to a reputed
private company; (b) the investment regime, including replacing a very complex
investment licensing list involving over 7,000 subsectors with a short negative list and
gradually reducing the number of activities on the negative list, simplifying investment
approval procedures by reducing the number of requirements, providing incentives in the
form of duty-free imports of machinery and equipment as well as inputs needed for initial
production, and encouraging foreign direct investment by providing the same incentives
as those accorded to domestic investors; and (c) the financial sector, including abolishing
credit ceilings, eliminating interest rate controls, reducing subsidized directed credits,
lowering entry barriers by permitting entry of new banks, including joint ventures with
foreign banks, and introducing measures to develop capital markets.'
The most recent deregulation packages in 1994-95 removed virtually all barriers to foreign investment, and
accelerated trade reform considerably by announcing a significant reduction in the average import tariff and
issuing a schedule for future tariff reductions to the year 2003.



- 4 -
2.04 These stabilization and deregulation efforts generated a very strong response from
the private sector, including a boom in private investment and rapid growth in output,
non-oil exports, employment and labor productivity. The manufacturing sector has led
the recovery of overall GDP, and helped diversify the economy away from its extreme
dependence on oil. Growth in manufacturing averaged 12 percent per year from 1986 to
1994, increasing its share in GDP from less than 12 percent to over 20 percent, and
almost tripling its absolute size from about US$10 billion to US$28 billion. In contrast to
1980-85, when a large proportion of growth originated from large capital-intensive
activities, labor-intensive sectors contributed most of the growth after 1986. Growth in
manufacturing employment and labor productivity averaged 7 percent per year, a rate
almost double that in the rest of the economy. The manufacturing sector contributed
about 30 percent of the growth in both non-oil GDP and total employment.
2.05 There also has been significant structural change in manufacturing in the form of a
substantial increase in the outward-orientation of the sector since the mid-1980s. From
1985/86 to 1992/93, manufactured export growth averaged about 30 percent, doubling the
sector export-to-output ratio to almost 20 percent. Exports contributed to over 40 percent
of manufacturing sector growth during the period, compared to only 13 percent during
1980-1985. The sector contributed about three-fourths of overall non-oil export growth
as the share of manufactured exports in total non-oil exports (and total exports) increased
from 38 percent (12 percent) to 63 percent (about 50 percent) between 1985/86 and
1994/95. Continued strong manufactured export growth also is considered to be the key
determinant of Indonesia's economic performance during the current Sixth Five-Year
Development Plan (REPELITA VI), which covers the period 1994/95-1998/99. The Plan
has programmed non-oil exports to increase by 17.8 percent per year in dollar terms,
compared to 17-9 percent yearly growth realized during REPELITA V.
2.06 Despite impressive recent performance by the manufacturing sector, however,
Indonesia's industrial structure exlibits a low level of product diversification and SMI
participation compared to other industrializing countries in the region, particularly the
more dynanmic NIEs. Almost 80 percent of the recent increase in manufactured exports
originated from the country's rich natural resource base--forestry-based wood products
and basic metals--and low-wage, labor-intensive activities--textiles, garments and
footwear. But Indonesia is being increasingly challenged in international markets by
even lower cost producers (e.g., China, India and Vietnam) in labor-intensive products.
The need for further industrial diversification was underscored by the relative weakening
in the export performance of the main traditional manufactured products--textiles and
garments, and plywood--in 1994 although part of the slack was taken up by strong
performance of footwear and electronics products, as well as growth in a number of other
product categories from a small base. The growth of total manufactured exports in
1994/95 was only 15 percent. compared to rates double that in previous years.  In
addition, industrial employment and output concentrated in a large number of micro
enterprises on one hand and large firms and business conglomerates on the other. The
shares of SMIs in total value added and total employment in industry is lower than those
in other high performing countries of East Asia (HPEACs).



- 5 -
2.07 Indonesia has made great strides in opening up its economy. Increasing competition
in and globalization of international markets of manufactured products will require
further deregulation of the economy. Corresponding action will need to be taken to
encourage more effective and better quality service provision to facilitate the adjustment
of industry, especially SMIs, to increasing competition and to reap the benefits from it.
The challenge for Indonesia is to further diversify its manufactured export base,
especially into skilled-labor intensive products, and increase efficiency and value added
in its traditional products by cutting costs and moving upmarket through management
improvements and technology upgrading particularly of SMIs.
B.  Science and Technology Strategy and Institutions
2.08 Indonesian firms will need to develop their technological capabilities to improve
their competitiveness and take advantage of the opportunities created by trade
liberalization within APEC, the reduction of global trade barriers and continued rapid
growth of world trade. International competitiveness increasingly requires firms to
compete on more than just the basis of factor cost advantages. Product development
capabilities, fast delivery, total quality--including the ability to meet customers' rigorous
quality standards and obtain ISO 9000 certification--and the ability to respond rapidly to
changing customer needs have all become increasingly important determinants of
competitive advantage.
2.09 The ability to compete on all these fronts is predicated heavily on the adoption of
best-practice technologies. There are two important lessons for Indonesia from the
experiences of the other HPEACs in this regard. First, overall economic policies play an
important role in promoting the development of technological capabilities for improved
competitiveness. Within the framework of sound macroeconomic, trade and competition
policies have played a key role in moving industry toward the international best-practice
frontier by compelling and enabling firms to lower costs, and improve product quality,
delivery and design. Second, even though the HPEACs vary widely with respect to their
development strategies, the role accorded to foreign investment and the extent of
government intervention, they all implemented specific technology policies to promote
the diffusion of technology and help their industrial sectors close the gap vis-a-vis
international best practice, recognizing the important externalities and market failures
associated with industrial technology development. Effective systems of metrology,
standards, testing and quality control (MSTQ), technology extension services and applied
R&D have made important contributions to enhancing industrial competitiveness in those
countries.
2.10 The focus of Indonesia's technology policies, in contrast, has been on a major push
to develop several technology-intensive public sector "strategic industries", which
include aircraft manufacturing, shipbuilding, electronics, telecommunications equipment
and steel making, with substantial public funding separate from the government budget
for science and technology. While these industries have made substantial progress in



acquiring technological capabilities, they have had little impact on the technology
development and competitiveness of the rest of industry.
2.11 Indonesia also has been spending substantial resources to support public R&D
laboratories. For the industrial sector there are three main public R&D institutions that
provide technology support services. The Indonesian Institute of Sciences (LIPI) was
established in 1967. Its main task is assist the President in organizing national R&D, to
give guidance, services and advice to Government on national science and technology
policy, improve Indonesia's scientific capability and cooperate with national and
international scientific bodies.  It also carries out basic research and technology
development activities in the natural sciences, engineering sciences, social sciences and
humanities and plays a major role in the development of the country's science and
technology infrastructure, including calibration and metrology and information services
in science and technology in over 19 centers for R&D and technology services. LIPI
employs about 4,000 people including over 300 Ph.D. and Masters degree holders. In
1993/94 LIPI had a total operating budget, including development and recurrent
expenditure, equivalent to about US$42 million, of which about 90 percent was funded
by government.
2.12 The Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT) was
established in 1978 to be in charge of the selection, assessment and application of science
and technology for the development of national industry. Like LIPI, BPPT is a non-
departmental government agency reporting directly to the President. Its principal tasks
are to: (a) formulate technology policies and programs to promote industrial and national
development; (b) ensure coordination in the implementation of programs for the
assessment and application of technology; (c) provide services to government and the
private sector in the application of technology; (d) carry out technology related activities
in support of the government's development policies and the application of technology
for industrial and national development. BPPT consists of over 21 technical directorates
covering the basic and applied sciences, technology development, industrial analysis,
natural resource development and systems analysis, as well as a number of technical
laboratories in such fields as aero- and gas dynamics, energy resources, construction
testing. It employs about 3,000 people including over 300 Ph.D. and Masters degree
holders. In 1993/94 BPPT had a total operating budget, including development and
recurrent expenditure, equivalent to about US$42 million, of which about 95 percent was
funded by government.
2.13 There are 9 national level R&D laboratories, specialized by industrial subsector
under the Ministry of Industry's Agency for Industrial Research and Development (BPPI)
as well as other specialized centers, e.g., the Center for Industrial Standards (PUSTAN),
and thirteen regional-level R&D institutes. Their mission is to focus on applied R&D
and technology support services, including testing and calibration services, for industry.
It employs about 3700 people including over 50 Ph.D. and Masters degree holders. In
1993/94 BPPI had a total operating budget, including development and recurrent



expenditure, equivalent to about US$14 million, of which about 70 percent was funded
by government.
2.14  These public technology support institutions typically are inward oriented and
supply-driven, and do not have the incentives or management systems to respond
effectively to the demands of private industry. As a result the degree of self-financing of
Indonesia's PTSIs tends to be low compared to other countries (Table 2.1).  The
Government has developed an Action Plan to substantially increase the degree of self-
financing of the PTSIs (para 3.13), in light of the need to commercialize their activities.
At the same time, while there are some notable exceptions, overall the PTSIs generally
are not at the cutting edge of science and technology, e.g., their scientific output in the
form of international patents or publications in internationally refereed journals is rather
limited. They also are fragmented across ministries and do little collaborative research
and development. Many of the PTSIs under the State Ministry for Research and
Technology often focus on supporting the strategic industries rather than the needs of the
private sector. Those under the Ministry of Industry focus more on private industry and
meeting the technology needs of SMIs in particular, but they are not commercially
oriented and have weak links with industry.
Table 2.1: DEGREE OF SELF-FINANCING OF SELECTED PUBLIC
R&D SYSTEMS
Country                         Institution                     % Self-Financing
Singapore      Singapore Institute of Standards and Industrial Research  60
Hong Kong      Hong Kong Productivity Center                             60
Germany        Fraunhofer Institute                                      50
Taiwan        Industrial Technology Research Institute                   35
India          Council of Scientific & Industrial Research               33
South Korea    Korean Institute of Science & Technology                  28
Australia      Commonwealth Scientific & Industrial Research             25
Organization
Indonesia     Indonesian Institute of Sciences                           10
Agency for the Assessment & Application of Technology      5
Ministry of Industry R&D Institutes                       30
Sources: Various World Bank reports and Institute Annual Reports



- 8 -
2.15 While Indonesia's deregulation program has created a conducive policy and
regulatory environment for technological upgrading in industry, technical support
services to facilitate the adoption and absorption of imported technology by industry,
particularly SMIs, are weak. Most of those services are provided by the PTSIs, where
over 80 percent of the country's scarce scientific, technical and engineering manpower
are employed. The private provision of those services to SMIs also are limited. There are
only a few domestic technology consulting firms that are perceived by Indonesian firms
to be of international quality (Annex 10). To match the other high performing countries
in the region, technology extension services need to be substantially strengthened to help
industrial firms adopt best practice, off-the-shelf imported technologies and improve
product quality, improve productivity, reduce rejects and production costs, and increase
yields. Indonesia now needs to place greater emphasis on supporting the private sector's
efforts, particularly those of small and medium enterprises, to improve their industrial
competitiveness through technological upgrading. The three major priorities are to: (a)
reorient the technology infrastructure towards the diffusion of best-practice technologies
in demand by industry through restructuring of the public R&D institutions; (b)
strengthen technology extension and MSTQ services provided by the public and private
sectors; and (c) improve the coordination of technology and industrial development
policies and programs. These are the priorities addressed in the proposed Industrial
Technology Development Project (ITDP).



- 9 -
3. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Origin and Formulation
3.01 Indonesia has had three World Bank funded projects supporting technology
development. The Science and Technology Training project (LN 2599-IND) provided
support for overseas training of scientists and engineers which was continued under the
Professional and Human Resources Development Project (LN 3134-IND). The latter
project also included financing for development of an Action Plan to strengthen industrial
technology development and for the design of improved management systems at the
Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT) and the Indonesian
Institute of Sciences (LIPI). Those projects helped create a core team within BPPT and
LIPI that is working on a reorientation of technology policy toward the private sector and
has helped prepare the basic design of the project. With support from a Japanese Grant
Facility, each of the agencies were able to undertake a studv tour abroad to learn first-
hand how other countries have implemented similar technology projects. Preparation of
the project built on those earlier projects and took into account best practices
internationally and consideration of alternative project designs, including the lessons
drawn by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department from the implementation of
other Bank technology projects (Report No. 12138) and experiences with other projects
in Indonesia with technology related components, e.g., the Industrial Restructuring
Project (LN 3040-IND) which helped strengthen industrial metrology, testing  and
extension services under the Agency for Industrial R&D of the Ministry of Industrv
(BPPI). Formulation of the project also benefited from the use of consultants who have
designed and implemented similar projects successfully elsewhere.  Based on the
experience of previous projects in Indonesia, the implementation of the project is
predicated on: (a) maximizing the use of existing resources and institutions; (b) having
clear performance standards and incentives for the public technology support institutions
to encourage them to be more responsive to the needs of industry; and (c) close
coordination within GOI in the development of policies, action plans and programns to
enhance industrial competitiveness through technology development.
B.  Project Objectives
3.02 The objective of the project is to enhance the competitiveness of Indonesian
industry, particularly of small and medium industries (SNMIs), by: (a) providing public
and private technology support services; (b) facilitating the access to public and private
technology service providers; (c) strengthening public technology support institutions;
and (d) improving the formulation and coordination of industrial technology policies.



- 10-
C.  Project Components and Description
3.03 The project has four components. It would: (a) strengthen Indonesia's system of
industrial metrology, standards, testing and quality (MSTQ) support services; (b) support
the diffusion of good technology practices through a cost-sharing matching grant fund to
finance the competitive provision of technology upgrading services to small and medium
industries (SMIs) by both public and private technology suppliers; (c) provide assistance
for reorienting the public research and development labs towards supporting more
effective technology development in private industry, especially SMIs; and (d) strengthen
the capacity to formulate and coordinate technology and industrial strategies, polices and
programs.
1. Improvement of Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality (MSTQ)
Services
3.03 Effective MSTQ support services have an important role to play in enhancing
industrial competitiveness since the ability to compete in global markets is directly linked
to standards and product quality. However, those services are very weak in Indonesia.
Dissemination of national and international standards to industry, quality awareness
among firms and training in quality management practices for industry, especially SMIs,
is extremely limited. Testing and calibration services are weak, e.g., only three of the
twenty two laboratories under MOI are internationally accredited. The demand for
support services for upgrading product quality is growing rapidly as Indonesian firms
seek to attain the standards required in international markets, including ISO 9000
certification which is increasingly becoming a requirement to sell in major export
markets.  Using German and Japanese technical assistance Indonesia's National
Standards Council (DSN) has developed a good Master Plan to strengthen MSTQ
services in these areas (Annex 9). The project would support the efforts of the National
Metrology Center (KIM-LIPI) and the Ministry of Industry's Center for Industrial
Standards (PUSTAN) to implement their respective complimentary responsibilities under
that Master Plan through technical assistance and training to improve the dissemination
of standards to industry, especially SMIs; and implement programs for improved testing
and calibration services and national certification of product quality and quality
management practices, including ISO 9000 certification for industry.
3.04 The National Metrology Center (KIM). KIM is Indonesia's primary metrology
center; it also operates a national calibration network in which there are a number of
private as well as public sector calibration service providers. One of its major tasks is to
calibrate the equipment of public and private sector testing laboratories throughout the
country which is essential for ensuring the accuracy of their testing equipment. Firms also
have the choice of sending their equipment abroad for calibration, which is an expensive
option. However, KIM has yet to become recognized and accepted internationally.
Technical assistance would be provided for KIM--through a twinning arrangement with a
leading international metrology and calibration laboratory selected competitively using



- 11 -
Bank guidelines (para 4.06)--for building its management and institutional capacity,
including improvement of the technical proficiency of KIM with the objective of gaining
international recognition and accreditation, which is vital to implementation of
Indonesia's ISO 9000 certification program. Performance targets for KIM were agreed
during appraisal (para 4.13).
3.05 Ministry of Industry's Center for Industrial Standards (PUSTAN). PUSTAN
also has an important role to play in the implementation of the national industrial
standards system and ISO 9000 certification of industrial enterprises. PUSTAN would
receive technical assistance under the project from an internationally reputed accredited
laboratory to improve the performance and institutional capacity of five of the Ministry of
Industry's testing laboratories to gain international recognition and/or accreditation.
Furthermore, MOI staff in eight MOI R&D institutes would be trained as MSTQ
extension agents under the project. PUSTAN also would receive technical assistance to:
(a) develop in cooperation with the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
(KADIN) programs to promote quality awareness and implementation in industry; and
(b) initiate ISO 9000 certification of 40 SMIs as a pilot demonstration to the rest of
industry and as a learning-by-doing training program for its staff. A comprehensive
training program for managers, supervisors and quality personnel of SMIs in all aspects
of quality management would be instituted by PUSTAN in cooperation with several
Indonesian technical universities. In addition, PUSTAN would facilitate the translation
into Bahasa Indonesia and wide dissemination of eight major practical textbooks in the
field of MSTQ. Performance targets for PUSTAN were agreed during appraisal (para 4.
13).
2. Diffusion of Good Technology Practices
3.07 In Indonesia demand for technical advice for improving productivity, and product
quality, reliability, design and delivery times is expanding rapidly in response to
increasing international competition. Large and some medium-sized firms receive such
technology support services primarily through technology agreements with foreign joint-
venture partners, and from domestic and international consultants. However, most small
and medium sized firms do not have those contacts and often are reluctant to use such
expertise due to concerns about confidentiality, value for money and their often limited
ability to identify suitable experts and use them effectively. Those SMIs who do seek
assistance do so primarily from public technology support services and, increasingly,
private consulting firms and individual consultants (Annex 10) although the quality of
domestic service providers, both public and private, is generally weak. Yet demand for
technology support services is substantial and growing.
3.08 Several studies of Indonesian and international experience have shown that
technology support services can yield substantial economic benefits--in the form of
reduced product defects and wastage, faster turnaround times, improved labor
productivity, lower production costs and inventories, increased domestic sales and
exports of existing products and new product designs for firms--that are multiples of the



- 12 -
cost of these services. For example, the Export Development Project (LN 2702-IND) in
Indonesia, which helped finance technology and marketing support services to SMIs and
exporters, helped generate an increase in export revenues of US$17 for each US$1 spent
on those services.   Technology support services provided Linder the Industrial
Restructuring Project (LN 3040-IND) have also generated high returns for SMIs. Overall
Bank project experience (Annex 10) has shown that the use of technology support
services generates substantial economic benefits, at least 2-to-1, if provided effectively
and used properly, by allowing SMIs to implement low-cost improvements in production
processes and management. Their ability to expand sales on export and domestic markets
can increase significantly; hence, firms show a greater willingness to use consulting
assistance at full cost over time; and the number and quality of technology support
services available to SMIs increase. However, one of the key lessons from that experience
is that aggressive marketing efforts and the use of cost-sharing matching grants that still
ensure that SMIs bear a substantial portion of the cost of services are essential to: (a)
improving firms' access to technology support services; (b) helping off'set the initial
learning costs involved in using technology services; and (c) demonstrating to firms the
potential benefits of using teclnology support services.
3.09 Techniology Services Matching Grant Scheme.  The project will flund on a
matchinig-granit basis private sector acquisition of consultancy expertise to improve
industrial competitiveness through technology upgrading. To improve the provision of
technology upgrading services to SMIs the project would support the creation of a
Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme, known in Bahasa Indonesia as Dana
Kemitraan Peningkatan Teknologi Industri (DAPATI), whiclh would fLinld in the form of
granits to cover part of the costs of teclnical services for improving productivity,
improvinig product quality including obtaining ISO 9000 certification, improving product
design, improvinig response tmnes to clients' orders and introducing new technologies and
techniques to diversify and enhance an enterprise's production capacities in Indonesia.
All SMIs regardless of subsector would be eligible for DAPATI grants. Beneficiary
SMIs on Java would be eligible for a maximum of two DAPATI grants; the grant portion
would not exceed 50 percent of the cost of the technical services contract for the first
grant and 25 percent for the second grant. Beneficiary SMIs outside of Java would be
eligible for a maximum of three grants; the grant portion would not exceed 75 percent of
the cost of the technical services contract in the first grant, 50 percent in the second and
25 percent in the third. SMI beneficiaries of the scheme would pay the rest of the costs of
the technical services they receive under the DAPATI program.  Both foreign and
(domestically sourced technology services, whether from the public or private sectors,
vould qualify under the scheme as eligible service providers. An estimated 1,000 SMIs--
there are  over 300.000 industrial enterprises in Indonesia--would receive technology
support services under the DAPATI program with the pilot funding that would be
provided under the project. In addition, grant financing would be available for domestic
consultants specializing in provision of technology services on a matching grant basis to
organize and participate in training seminars to improve their capabilities to deliver
technology services to SMIs. e.g.. flexible manufacturing and production engineerinig.



- 13 -
3.10 The attractiveness of DAPATI is that it is demand-responsive and promotes private
sector delivery of technology services while avoiding the creation of new government
agencies. The Ministry of Industry (MOI) will be the executing agency for the scheme.
However, its day-to-day administration will be contracted out to a private sector
management contractor which would establish small offices in several regions to provide
firms throughout Indonesia access to DAPATI. The private contractor would have three
principal functions: facilitating disbursements under the scheme; marketing the scheme to
industry; and building up a register of good quality providers of technology support
services. The management contractor also will prepare regular reports on the economic
impact of technical services delivered under the program on the SMI beneficiaries'
competitiveness which will be reviewed independently before completion of the project
against the experience of a control group to ascertain the impact of the DAPATI program.
The review also would help determine the need for continuation of the DAPATI program
after completion of the project. The design of DAPATI draws upon the successful
experiences of other countries that have implemented cost sharing schemes to promote
technology upgrading to enhance the competitiveness of industry (Annex 10). Those
programs have shown that, like DAPATI, a sustainable demand for technology services is
created when firms are required to pay a significant portion of the cost of consulting
services and the subsidy element is phased out during the life of the project, and there is
early and heavy emphasis on marketing the program and its demonstrated benefits.
During project preparation a detailed DAPATI Implementation Manual was developed
(Annex 1 1) which details the roles and responsibilities of the program participants, the
operating procedures and criteria for the program, and the performance indicators to be
used to monitor implementation progress.
3.11 DAPATI has been designed to ensure adequate quality of service delivery and to
minimize any possible misuse of funds under the program. First, an independent
management contractor would be selected to be responsible for day to day management
of the program. Second, the management contractor would in most cases be required to
pre-appraise service providers' credentials, provide training in consulting skills to be pre-
qualified service providers, and conduct a diagnostic audit of each firm's needs. Third,
while the management contractor would facilitate competitive selection of suitable
service providers under the program by inter alia providing the names of at least three
qualified service providers to requesting beneficiary firns, the final choice of service
provider rests with the beneficiary. Fourth, payment from the Bank loan of the matching
portion of the cost of services would be based on BAPPENAS benchmark prices;
additional fees and cost overruns would be borne by the beneficiary. Fifth, the SMI
would bear on average half the cost of those services to ensure that the firm is committed
to utilizing fully the services provided. Sixth, payment of the remaining balance of the
cost of services from the Special Account would be made only after verification by the
management contractor of the expected deliverables.  Seventh, the management
contractor would prepare regular reports on all service contracts financed for review by
the Technical Supervisory Committee and the Bank; part of this review would include a
post audit on the expected results of each consultancy. Eighth, each year the program
would be independently audited.



- 14 -
3.12 During negotiations GOI provided assurances that MOI will carry out the DAPATI
matching grant program in accordance with the DAPATI Implementation Manual,
including (i) entering into a management contract with a management consulting firm to
undertake the day-to-day operations; and (ii) maintaining a Technical Supervisory
Committee chaired by MOI and with representatives of BAPPENAS, MOF, BPPT, the
Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the Indonesian Association of
Professional Consultants, for purposes of the overall management of the DAPATI
program. In addition, MOI will, on March 31 of each year commencing on March 31,
1996, exchange views with the Bank on the continuing adequacy of the DAPATI
Implementation Manual and, with the Bank's prior concurrence, promptly revise the
above Manual accordingly. GOI has provided the Bank with: (a) the shortlist for the
management contractor and a funds flow mechanism for the DAPATI program that has
been approved by the Ministry of Finance and found to be acceptable to the Bank; (b)
confinnation that the DAPATI Technical Supervisory Committee has been established;
and (c) confirmation that the DAPATI Implementation Manual, satisfactory to the Bank,
has been adopted by the Ministry of Industry. During negotiations an agreement was
reached that as a condition of disbursement for DAPATI grants no withdrawals from the
loan shall be made unless: (i) the DAPATI Management Contract shall have been
entered into in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the grant has been made in
accordance with the procedures set out in the DAPATI Manual (para 4.08).
3. Improvement of the Productivity of Public R&D
3.13 As noted earlier (para 2.11), industrial R&D in the public sector is carried out by
LIPI, BPPT and the industrial labs under the Ministry of Industry. These institutions are
primarily inward looking and largely disconnected from the needs of industry, each other,
and the global frontier of R&D with little knowledge of international best practices for
improving industrial competitiveness through technology upgrading (para 2.14). Their
organization, funding and incentive structure do not encourage close collaboration with
industry. Contract research with industry forms a very small part of their work.
Researchers have had little incentive to undertake contract research because of rigid
government rules regarding the use of earnings generated from the sale of technology and
technical services to industry. Projects are typically formulated at the initiative of
researchers, often without any input from industry and with insufficient market testing or
involvement by potential users during the R&D phase. The Government of Indonesia
now has begun to implement measures to give the public technology support institutions
(PTSIs) incentives to become more demand driven, professionally managed and
commercially oriented, and make them more agile in responding to the technological
needs of industry. During the project further measures would be taken as part of GOI's
Action Plan to implement an incentive scheme for commercialization of the PTSIs
(Annex 12).



- 15 -
3.14 Improved Management at BPPT and LIPI. To complement measures to improve
autonomy and accountability, and give incentives to provide effective technology support
services, the project would support improvements in the internal management systems of
BPPT and LIPI. Under the project, they would receive technical assistance through
twinning arrangements with internationally reputed contract research organizations to
strengthen their capabilities. This would entail: (a) strengthening the core functions for
managing contract research, including business development, contract administration,
intellectual property management and communications at the Technology Services
Organization (TSO) of LIPI and the Technology and Business Integration Services Unit
(TBIS) at BPPT; (b) strengthening BPPT and LIPI's core management information
systems in key industrial R&D activities and laboratories, including finance and budget,
human resources administration, project management and procurement and inventory
management systems; and (c) providing support for management development. The
project would also include financing to cover the essential requirements of computer
hardware and software to implement the improved management systems. This support
would be focused on helping BPPT and LIPI increase their self-financing from 5 and 10
percent, respectively today, to 25 percent for both institutions by the year 2000/01, and
better cost accounting and budgeting systems would improve the pricing of their services
and the transparency of resource management at BPPT and LIPI.
3.15 Restructuring Selected Laboratories.  In addition to providing support for
improved R&D management at the overall institutional level, three laboratories were
selected for comprehensive restructuring during the project as demonstrations of the
benefits from detailed restructuring. The project will support two R&D centers under the
Ministry of Industry, and one under LIPI. These three R&D centers were selected for
project support based on: (a) development during project preparation of solid business
plans that demonstrate their intention and specific steps to serve industry more
effectively, including realistic targets for substantially increasing revenue generation from
the sale of technology and technical services to industry; (b) the capability to provide the
technology upgrading services outlined in those plans; and, (c) the track record of their
management of providing effective leadership. In addition, the Asian Development Bank
(ADB) will support the modernization of eight other MOI R&D labs under their proposed
Industrial Technology and Human Resource Development Project in line with the
approach and policy framework developed under the proposed project.
3.16 The World Bank supported project would provide assistance for restructuring the
R&D Center for Applied Chemistry (RDCAC) under LIPI. RDCAC is strong in basic
research and applied technology for the chemical industry. With support under the
project, RDCAC's restructuring program would strengthen its R&D management,
downstream processing in biotechnology, engineering and development of membrane
systems and catalyst process technology, and also upgrade its library, documentation and
information services. Today about one-third of RDCAC's budget is earned from the sale
of technology and technical services to industry. With support under the project that
share is expected to rise to nearly 60 percent by the year 2000 through the
implementation of improved technology marketing and R&D management systems.



- 16 -
3.17 The project would further support the Institute for Research and Development for
Chemical Industry (IRDCI) under the Ministry of Industry. IRDCI also specializes in the
chemical industry, although its human resource base is not nearly as strong as its
counterpart under LIPI, RDCAC. The institute has so far focused primarily on routine
testing and certification. Today about 17 percent of IRDCI's budget is earned from the
sale of those services to industry. Support for the IRDCI under the project would
strengthen its capabilities to do technology marketing, strengthen its process design and
engineering capability, and R&D capabilities in natural products technology and
packaging technology where the institute has some basic strengths and where domestic
demand for technology support services is substantial and growing. Under the project,
IRDCI of MOI would work closely with RDCAC of LIPI, which is much stronger in
R&D for the chemical industry, to carry out joint R&D and industry-outreach programs
as a demonstration of the benefits of close cooperation among institutes across
Indonesia's fragmented R&D system. With support under the project the share of
industrial earnings from the sale of technology and technical services in IRDCI's budget
is expected to rise to about 50 percent by the year 2000.
3.18 The other MOI institute supported under the project is the Semarang Industrial
R&D Institute (BISm), which is a regional R&D institute in Central Java that specializes
in waste water and air pollution control technologies. Unlike other R&D institutes under
MOI, which primarily offer testing and allied services, the Semarang Institute also
undertakes significant R&D and design work: its industrial earnings from R&D per staff
is the highest among all the R&D institutes under MOI. Project support for the Institute
would strengthen its ability to supply clean technologies, disposal monitoring services,
and waste treatment equipment design services, and the ability to properly price and
protect the technologies it develops. Today about 48 percent of the Semarang Institute's
budget is earned from the sale of technology and technical services to industry. With
support of the project that share is expected to rise to 75 percent by the year 2000.
3.19 The technical assistance provided to facilitate the restructuring of these three R&D
institutes would take the form of twinning arrangements with internationally reputed
R&D laboratories in their respective fields that have managed the transition to becoming
demand driven, successful public technology support institutions.  These twinning
partners would be competitively selected following Bank procurement guidelines (para
4.06). Successful restructuring of these selected institutes would provide the basis for
subsequent restructuring of other R&D institutes in Indonesia.
3.20 During negotiations the Bank reviewed and agreed upon GOI's Action Plan of
policy measures to be undertaken to encourage the commercialization of the PTSIs (para
3.13), including the key performance targets that are to be achieved by each PTSI
supported under the project. GOI also submitted a formal letter from the Minister of
Finance confirming that GOI would implement the new incentive scheme for the
commercialization of the PTSIs under the project. Furthermore, an understanding was
reached that issuance of the regulations and all other related documentation required to
implement the new incentive scheme for commercialization of the PTSIs that are



- 17-
satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for any equipment and the
twinning arrangements under this part of the project (para 4.08).
4. Improvement of Industrial and Technology Policy Formulation
3.21 The formulation of technology and industrial policies in Indonesia has proceeded
along largely separate tracks by different ministries. Preparation of the proposed project
has constituted an important step in improving coordination among BPPT, MOI and
BAPPENAS in the development and implementation of industrial and technology
policies and programs in Indonesia. To support that process further, a small component
of the project would consist of technical assistance to the Science and Technology Policy
Unit of BPPT which would strengthen the ability to monitor and evaluate the impact of
on-going technology programs and formulate results-oriented technology policies and
more effective coordinating mechanisms for improving Indonesia's industrial
competitiveness through technology upgrading. Technical assistance also would be
provided under the project to the Policy Advisory Unit of the Agency for Industrial R&D
under the Ministry of Industry to design collaborative programs with the private sector
for strengthening industrial competitiveness and to prepare the next phases of the
deregulation process. Terms of reference for the major policy studies that are to be
conducted by the two units and their required consultancy support have been agreed.
D.  Project Costs
Summary of Costs
3.22 The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$60.9 million equivalent
(Rp. 133.7 billion), including contingencies but excluding taxes and duties. Table 3.1
below summarizes the estimated costs by project component. Detailed project costs are
given in Annex 2.
Basis of Cost Estimates
3.23 Baseline Costs. Baseline costs are estimated at May 1995 prices. Equipment and
furniture costs are based on current prices for similar imported or locally available items.
Technical assistance and training costs are based on recent costs for comparable technical
assistance and training being provided by the Bank under other projects and by other
institutions. The costs were estimated as follows: (i) specialist services, US$130,000 per
year; (ii) foreign short-term consultants, US$20,000 per month; (iii) international travel,
US$4,000 per trip; (iv) subsistence, US$150 per diem; (v) short-term overseas training
(3-6 months). US$15,000 per person.



- 18 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
%       % Total
Component                     Rp. Billion                US$ Million           Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange    Costs
Improving MSTQ                      1.0      9.4    10.4        0.4      4.3       4.7      90          8
MST-KIM                           0.3      2.1     2.4        0.1      1.0       J.1      89          2
MST-PUSTAN                        0.7      7.3     8.0        0.3      3.3       3.6      90          6
Technology Service Matching        20.9     10.7    31.6        9.5       4.9     14.4      34         25
Grant Scheme (DAPATI)
R&D Strengthening                   9.1     62.3    71.4        4.1     28.5      32.6      87         57
BPPT                              3.1     24.3    27.4        1.4     11.1      12.5      89         22
LIPI                              2.7     19.6    22.3        1.2      9.0      10.2      88         18
MOI                               3.3     18.4    21.7        1.5      8.4       9.9      85         17
Institutional Strengthening         1.7      9.3    11.0        0.8      4.2       5.0      84          9
S&T Mgmt and Policy Unit          1.0      4.3     5.3        0.5      1.9       2.4      81          4
Agency for Industrial R&D         0.7      5.0     5.7        0.3      2.3       2.6      87          5
Total Base Costs                   32.7     91.7   124.4       14.8      41.9     56:7      74        100
Physical Contingencies              0.6      4.3      4.9       0.3       1.9      2.2      87          4
Price Contingencies                 1.1      3.3      4.4       0.5       1.5      2.0      75          4
Total Costs             34.4     993    133.7       15.6      45.3     60.9      74        107
3.24 Contingency Allowances. Project costs include physical contingencies for all
categories of expenditure, estimated at 5.0 percent of base costs. Price contingencies
have also been added, with annual escalation rates of 5.0 percent for local costs and 2.2
percent for foreign costs during project implementation which is expected to take 5 years,
from 1996/1997 to 2000/2001.
3.25 Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs, including contingencies, are
estimated at US$45.3 million (representing 74 percent of total project costs) and are
based on a detailed analysis of projected expenditures and the experience of comparable
projects in Indonesia. The foreign exchange percentages for major expenditure categories
are estimated as follows: (i) 100 percent for database subscription and overseas study
tours; (ii) 90 percent for laboratory equipment and supplies, computers and office
equipment, books for library, short- and long-term consultants, and twinning
arrangements; (iii) 80 percent for research and policy studies; (iv) 50 percent for other
office supplies, and staff training and development; and (v) zero percent for civil works
and furniture.
3.26 Taxes and Duties. Taxes and duties are not included in the project costs.



- '9 -
E. Financing Plan
3.27 The proposed loan of US$47.0 million equivalent would finance 77 percent of the
total project costs; industry would finance US$6.2 million (or 10 percent of the total
project costs) as its share of technology services that would receive matching grant
financing under DAPATI, the Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme; and GOI
would finance remaining costs of US$7.7 million (or 13 percent of the total project
costs). Table 3.2 below summarizes the project financing plan.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
IBRD
Component            GOI   Industry  IBRD    Total   Share
(%)
Improving MSTQ              0.8       0.0       4.4       5.2    84.4
Technology Service          0.0       6.2       8.4      14.6    57.6
Matching Grant Scheme
(DAPATI)
R&D Management              5.8       0.0      29.8      35.6    83.7
Institutional Strengthening  1.1      0.0       4.4       5.5    80.3
Total              7.7       62       47.0     60.9    77.2



- 20 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Implementation Agencies
4.01 BPPT, LIPI and MOI would be responsible for the implementation of their
respective components of the project. In particular, KIM under LIPI and PUSTAN under
MOI will carry out the implementation of the MSTQ component of the project; MOI will
carry out implementation of the DAPATI program; MOI, BPPT and LIPI will implement
the component for strengthening public R&D; and MOI and BPPT will carry out the
component for improving the formulation and coordination of industrial and technology
policies. For each component of the project, the implementing agencies have prepared a
project management and implementation plan which includes the scope and objectives of
their components, and their implementation schedules. These documents are part of the
project file and are referenced in the loan documents. They will also provide the
reference benchmarks for Bank supervision of the project components (para 4.12). In
addition, each plan clearly specifies the key milestones and provides the project's
perfornance indicators which will measure both the attainment of physical targets for
project implementation as well as the progress in achieving the project's objectives and
its developmental impact (Annex 5).
B.  Project Coordination
4.02 Prior to the project, each agency established its own Project Management and
Implementation Unit (PMIU). In addition, a Central PMIU has been established to
ensure coordination and collaboration among the project components.  Annex 4
summarizes the functions and responsibilities of these units. The Central PMIU reports to
a Steering Committee consisting of representatives of each of the implementing agencies
and the private sector, and is chaired by BAPPENAS. During negotiations agreement
was reached that: (a) the Bank loan could be used to finance up to US$100,000 for
necessary equipment for the PMIUs; and (b) up to US$400,000 in short-term consultant
services to support the activities of the PMIUs, including preparation of the mid-term
review report and Implementation Completion Report for the project (paras 4.13 and
4.14).
C.  Implementation Schedule
4.03 The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period starting from
1996/1997 to 2000/2001. The project is estimated to be completed by June 30, 2001, and
the loan closing date would be December 31, 2001. The implementation schedules of the
major components of the project are shown in Annex 4.



- 21 -
D.  Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
4.04 A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 4.1 below.
Procurement will be the responsibility of the Project Monitoring and Implementation
Unit (PMIU) under each of the three implementing agencies (MOI, BPPT and LIPI)
which will organize bid evaluation and consultant selection committees for all
procurement activities. Some of the participating institutions are already well aware of
Bank procurement guidelines. Further training in Bank procurement and disbursement
will be done during the post-appraisal follow-up by the Bank's field office in Indonesia
and at a planned project launch workshop. The World Bank standard bidding documents
and contract forms would be adopted for all procurement of goods under international
competitive bidding (ICB) and selection of consultants.
Table 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$'000)
Procurement Method
Expenditure    International    Limited
Item        Competitive   International  International     Direct     Consulting
Bidding       Bidding       Shopping      Contracting    Services    N.B.F.     Total
Civil Works             -              -              -             -                       70.0      70.0
Equipment             8,842.7       2,947.6        1,915.9        k031.6          -          -       14,737.8
(7,958.4)     (2,652.8)      (1,724.3)      (928.5)                           (13,264.0)
Furniture and Other     -              -              -             -             -        163.8      163.8
Onlice Supplies
Books and               -              -              -           1,768.0         -          -       1,768.0
Database
(1,591.2)                          (1,591.2)
Consultants             -              -              -              -        26,153.5       -       26,153.5
(21,369.7)           (21,369.7)
Training                -              -              -           2,292.5         -          -       2,292.5
(1,834.0)                          (1,834.0)
Research and            -              -              -             -          3,360.1       -       3,360.1
Policy Studies
-        (2,688.1)              (2,688.1)
DAPATI Grants           -              -              -          12,400.0         -          -       12,400.0
(6,200.0)                          (6.200.0)
Total           8,842.7        2,947.6        1,915.9       17,429.1     29,513.6     233.8    60,945.7
(7,958.4)     (2,652.8)      (1,724.3)     (10.553.7)    (24,057.8)     -     (46,947.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed.
4.05 Goods. Procurement for all laboratory and office equipment amounting to or more
than US$200,000 would be based on contracts awarded following international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement
under Bank Loans and IDA Credits", dated January 1995. Small contracts for equipment
and supplies amounting to less than US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate



- 22 -
amount equivalent to US$1.9 million, would be procured through international shopping
with price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers from two different eligible
countries, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. More specialized
laboratory equipment will be procured through limited international bidding (LIB), up to
US$200,000 per contract and an aggregate of US$2.9 million. For items under shopping
and limited international bidding, international competitive bidding would not offer any
special advantage because of their specialized nature and small value. Highly specialized
proprietary laboratory equipment, books and database subscriptions, up to an aggregated
value of about US$2.8 million, will be procured under direct contracting.
4.06 Consulting Services.  Consulting services, including twinning arrangements,
training and research and policy studies and other technical assistance, are a major focus
of this project. Consulting services would be selected in accordance with "Guidelines:
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", dated August 1981. Technology services to be financed under the DAPATI
program (Technology Upgrading Matching Grant Scheme) will be awarded to service
providers (both private and public) according to commercial procedures, generally by
direct contracting arrangements where quality would remain of paramount importance.
As indicated in the DAPATI Implementation Manual, the management contractor (which
will be selected on a competitive basis according to the Bank consultant selection
procedures), under the guidance of the Technical Supervisory Committee, will ensure that
the technology service contracts are awarded at a reasonable cost, and also by taking into
account other relevant factors such as time of delivery, efficiency, and quality of the
services and the competency of the respective service providers. The complete bid
packages for all the main technical assistance contracts under the project, including letters
of invitation, terms of reference, and consultant shortlists have been agreed upon.
4.07 Review Procedures. All contracts for goods estimated to cost US$200,000 or
more will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Contracts below the above threshold
will be subject to the Bank's post review on a selective basis. All consultants' contracts
for employment of individual consultants estimated to cost above US$50,000 or of
consulting firms estimated to cost above US$100,000, would require the Bank's prior
review. With regard to the cost sharing technology services provided under the DAPATI
program, contracts below US$25,000 would be reviewed and managed by the
Management Contractor. Contracts under the DAPATI program above US$25,000 would
be reviewed by the Technical Supervisory Committee. The Bank will review the first
five contracts, regardless of size, to ensure proper procedures are being followed.
Thereafter, all contracts valued over US$50,000 relating to the DAPATI program would
be reviewed by the Bank and a post review on a selective basis would be conducted. All
procurement activities carried out will be reported to the Bank in the Semi-annual
Progress Reports (para 4.13).



- 23 -
Disbursement
4.08 The Bank Loan will be disbursed against: (a) 100 percent of foreign or local (ex-
factory) expenditures for laboratory equipment and supplies, and computers or 65 percent
of local expenditures for other items procured locally; (b) 90 percent of expenditures for
books and database subscriptions; (c) 80 percent of the expenditures for consulting
services, twinning arrangements, staff training and development, as well as research and
policy studies; (d) 80 percent of the management contract for the Technology Services
Matching Grant Scheme (DAPATI); and (e) 100 percent of DAPATI grants which would
cover 50 percent and 25 percent of the first and second consultancy costs, respectively,
for firrns operating in Java, and 75 percent, 50 percent and 25 percent of the first second
and third consultancy costs, respectively, for firms operating outside of Java. Table 4.2
shows the allocation of loan proceeds to each category. The Bank Loan will not finance
civil works, furniture and other office supplies, or any recurrent costs. No withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) DAPATI grant unless: (i) the DAPATI Management
Contract shall have been entered into a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.12); and
(ii) the grant has been made in accordance with the procedures set out in the DAPATI
Implementation Manual (para 3.10); or (b) equipment and the twinning arrangements
required to implement the third component of the project--improved public R&D
management--unless the Ministry of Finance shall have issued the necessary regulations
and all other related documentation satisfactory to the Bank required to implement the
Action Plan to commercialize the PTSIs (para 3.20).
4.09 Withdrawal applications would be fully documented for all expenditures against
which loan disbursements would be made, except for the following contracts for which
loan disbursements would be made based on the Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a)
contracts for equipment, books, and database subscription estimated to cost less than
US$200,000; (b) contracts for twinning arrangements, training, and research and policy
studies estimated to cost less than US$100,000; (c) consulting firm contracts, excluding
those under the DAPATI program, valued at less than US$100,000 and individual
consultant contracts valued at less than US$50,000; and (d) those technical services
contracts under the DAPATI program valued less than US$50,000 after the first five
contracts have been approved. Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by the
respective project implementing units and made available for review as requested by
Bank supervision missions. The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank
loan is shown at Annex 7 and is based on the standard disbursement profile for projects in
Indonesia.
4.10 Special Account. In order to facilitate disbursements, the Government would
establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia. The initial deposit of the special account
would be limited to US$1.0 million, which would be increased to US$3.5 million,
covering approximately four months of eligible expenditures, when the aggregate amount
of withdrawal from the Loan plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments reach US$7.0 million. This account would be maintained by the Director
General of Budget, MOF. All disbursements from the Bank loan would be made through



- 24 -
the Special Account. Replenishment applications to the Special Account will be made on
a monthly basis, or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been used, whichever
occurs first. During negotiations an agreement was reached that the Special Account and
the necessary organizational structure for its operation, including appropriate accounting
and auditing procedures, would be established in a manner satisfactory to the Bank in
Indonesia.
Table 4.2: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
;0ii-::f:::;f:f:-:0.:--El0:::00:S; :.: ;:i:::0 Qi [::Amount of the Loa:n Allocated: %: of Expendit::ures a]i0
(1I) Equipmentk1/                              12.7               100% of foreign and 100%0 of local (ex-
factory) expenditures and 65% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
(2) Books and Database                         1.6                90%
(3). Training                                  1.7                80%
(4) Technical Assistance                                          _____________________
Twinning Arrangements                      14.2                80%
Consultant Services Ll                     4.6                 80%
DAPATI Mgmt.                               2.0                 80%
Contract                                                      ___________________
Research & Policy                          2.6                 80%
Studies                                                       _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
(5) DAPATI Granits 4/                          6.2                 100%
(6) Unallocated                                1.4                ____________________
Total                                47.0               ___________________
aI Expenditures financed are exclusive of value-added tax (VAT).
b/ Includes financing of necessary office equipment for PMIUs up to US$100.000.
g/ Includes financing of necessary short-term consultant services for project implementation up to US$400,000.
d/ Beneficiary firms on Java would be eligible for a maximum of two DAPATI grants: the grant portion would not
exceed 50 percent of the cost of the first technical services contract and 25 percent for the second assistance.
Beneficiary firms offlJava would be eligible for a maximum of three grants; the grant portion would not exceed 75
percent of the cost of the first technical services contract, 50 percent in the second and 25 percent in the third.
E. Project Accounts and Audits
4.1 1 During negotiations, the Bank received assurances that MOI, BPPT and LIPI would
establish and maintain project related accounts for their respective project components.
Those project accounts, to reflect all project resources, expenditures, assets and liabilities,



- 25 -
would be maintained annually in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.  The annual project accounts would be prepared in accordance with
international accounting standards and audited in accordance with international standards
on auditing by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. A review of the Special
Account and an auditor's opinion with special emphasis on the audit of SOEs would be
provided annually. The auditor's report would include a statement on the adequacy of the
accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of the statement of expenditures
as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. The audited
project accounts and the auditor's report thereof would be submitted to the Bank within
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
F.   Project Monitoring, Reporting And Supervision
4.12 The Bank would closely supervise project implementation by undertaking regular
field missions.  A  tentative schedule for supervision activities and missions is
summarized in Annex 8. The Bank will closely monitor performance of each component
against: (a) the progress of procurement, disbursement and physical implementation of
each project componenit (Annex 4); (b) the benchmarks for the key performance
indicators in Annex 5, which will measure the monitorable results to be achieved under
the project; and (c) compliance with the Action Plan (Annex 12). An understanding was
reached during negotiations that at the mid-term review the amounts earmarked in the
loan for any beneficiaries that fail to reach its mid-term performance targets, and fail to
produce credible action plans to achieve compliance, would be canceled from the loan.
4.1 3 During negotiations, the Bank received assurances that the Government will
monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis and in accordance with the agreed
performance indicators, the implementation of the Project. In particular, each project
implementing agency will prepare progress reports on implementation of its respective
project component on a semi-annual basis by June 30 and December 31 of each year
beginning on June 30, 1996, including informnation of performance against the
benchmarks for each component (Annex 5), procurement information and expenditure
statements. Such semi-annual progress reports will be consolidated by the Central PMIU
and submitted to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank within two months after
the end of each reporting period. In addition, agreement and assurances were obtained
during negotiations that GOI would ensure that a mid-term evaluation of the project's
performance against its objectives be carried out in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and that the report on the findings and recommendations of that
review would be furnished to the Bank by September 30, 1998, which would be reviewed
by the Bank and GOI by November 1, 1998.
4.14 The Project Completion Date is expected to be June 30, 2001, while the Closing
Date would be December 31, 2001. An implementation completion report (ICR) will be
submitted by GOI to the Bank within four months of the Closing Date of the Bank Loan.



- 26 -
5.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01 Through past projects in the area of science and technology, the Bank has
developed a close relationship with Government counterparts in the field of technology
(BPPT, LIPI, MOI, BAPPENAS). In the course of project preparation, the Bank has
expanded its previous focus on science and technology training to establish a dialogue
with Government agencies and the private sector on the public sector role in the provision
of technology services. The proposed project would allow the Bank to maintain and
expand this dialogue, and ensure that it leads to results on the ground.
5.02 The 1995 Country Assistance Strategy for Indonesia emphasizes the importance of
improving Indonesia's competitiveness and the need for a shift toward a productivity
based economy and the complimentary private provision of supporting infrastructure
services. The proposed project addresses each of these areas through its support for more
effective provision of technology services to help improve the competitiveness of
Indonesian industry. The package of policy reforms, institutional strengthening and
capacity building supported under the project is in particular expected to make a
contribution to enhancing the competitiveness of Indonesia's SMI manufacturing sector,
the target group of the project. The experience gained under the project would provide a
useful input into Indonesia's technology policies and programs.
5.03 In the expectation of closer Bank cooperation, GOI also has introduced, for the first
time, performance measurement and measures to promote accountability in public R&D
management in Indonesia. Project preparation has been an instrument for establishing
consensus and coordination among these Government agencies and a dialogue with
private industry, which are essential to strengthening the link between technology and
industrial policies. Our involvement has helped GOI to take advantage of the lessons
from Bank-supported technology projects throughout the world and prompted it to take a
more pro-active stance in focusing industrial technology development policies and
programs and in aligning them more clearly with private sector development and
industrial competitiveness. The Bank has also played a key role in establishing a
common policy and institutional framework for industrial technology development that is
being supported by other financiers, including the Asian Development Bank.



- 27 -
B.  Project Justification
Project Rationale and Design
5.04 Over the last decade, the Indonesian Government has been engaged in a process of
deregulating the economy, liberalizing the foreign investment regime, and lowering
import barriers, all of which have increased competitive pressures and hence the demand
for technology services. Against this background, the proposed project seeks to improve
the productivity of the Government's expenditures in the technology area so as to
maximize the supply-side response to the opening of the economy.
5.05 Specifically, the project addresses two important market failures in the area of
technology-services.  First, there is a demand-side failure. Many Indonesian SMI
managers underestimate the value of and need for technology improvements, and are
reluctant to spend scarce funds on new technologies. Temporary cost buy-downs on
technological services, by encouraging reluctant firms to move up the learning curve and
thereby inducing spillover or demonstration effects on neighboring firms, would help
overcome this problem. Second, there is a supply-side failure. Even if technology
demanders were perfectly informed about the value of new technology, technology
services, if left to the market, would be underprovided, on account of their public good
nature (the available supply of a new technology is not diminished by the adoption by a
firm of that technology).
5.06 The project addresses these market failures by lowering the cost (through subsidies)
of technology services, both public and private. In particular, the DAPATI scheme is a
response to the first market failure: its declining schedule of subsidies for technology
services is specifically designed to encourage firms to test the waters and move up the
technology learning curve.
5.07 The existence of market failure in itself can only point to the consideration of
govemment action; it cannot justify it. The possibility of "govemment failure"--of the
govemment's involvement only making matters worse--must also be considered,
especially in countries such as Indonesia, where the track-record of public sector
technology institutions is mixed. The project addresses the risk of government failure,
and attempts to minimize it in various ways:
(i)  the provision, through DAPATI, of subsidies for private as well as public
providers of technology services will facilitate the development of private-sector
technology suppliers, unencumbered by the bureaucratic constraints of the public
sector and subject to the forces of competition;



- 28 -
(ii) improved efficiency, industry-responsiveness and commercialization of
government sector institutes are explicit aims of the project. The PTSIs will be
forced to become more reliant on industry for their revenue, and will be given
technical assistance to enable them to do so;
(iii) the heavy reliance on performance targets, and the incentives imbedded in the
project to meet these, will promote better performance and also help develop a
result-oriented outlook among the PTSIs; and
(iv) the DAPATI program has been designed as a pilot. It will be closely
monitored and thoroughly evaluated, including through the use of a sample survey,
both to ensure effective use of funds and to provide a good information base on
which to decide whether or not to continue with the program  after project
completion (see 5.1 2).
In summary, the project has been designed to help overcome market failures in the key
area of technology service provision, while minimizing the likelihood of government
failure.
Project Benefits
5.08 The benefits of the project do not lend themselves to precise quantitative analysis.
However, there is ample evidence from the high performing East Asian countries and
previous projects in Indonesia that effective technology support services do yield high
economic and financial retums for manufacturing companies through reduced product
defects, faster manufacturing turnaround times, lower inventories, higher productivity,
increased domestic and export sales and new product designs. These benefits are
multiples of the cost of the corresponding services and substantially increase the returns
to SMIs' existing investments in plant, equipment and human capital.
5.09 Any consideration of benefits must also take into account the substantial, though
again not easily quiantified, catalytic effect the project would have on ongoing public
sector investments in the provision of technological services.  Given its focus on
improving the incentives and management practices of the participating PTSIs, the
project can be expected, if successful, to have a demonstration effect which would
influence overall Government technology policy and expenditures in the direction of
commercialization, accountability and transparency. An alternative project design based
on investing heavily in additional equipment for selected Government research institutes
was considered but rejected on the grounds that it would not have this catalytic impact.
Instead, planned investments in new equipment have been kept to the bare minimum
required to implement the business plans of the participating PTSIs. This approach has
worked well in other Bank technology projects, notably in the Industrial Technology
Development Project (LN 3119-IN, CR 2064) in India.



- 29-
Fiscal Impact
5.10 The project is expected to have a positive fiscal impact since it would enable the
Government to deliver the same level of technology services with a lower budget. There
are two reasons for this. First, the expected net impact of the project on the private
provision of technology services is positive (mainly as a result of the DAPATI program,
and the stimulus to demand this will give). Second, the self-financing ratio of the PTSIs
would increase as a result of the project.
C.  Project Risks
5.11 The reorientation of the public technology infrastructure towards commercial use
and result-oriented management, the effective coordination of Government policies for
industry and science and technology and the development of competent private service
providers may be slower than envisaged. Similarly, the SMI sector may be slow in
accessing the new services being offered.  To help minimize these risks, project
preparation was extended to: (a) help build consensus within Government on the need for
and ways to achieve this strategic reorientation of public support for technology
development, including drawing on best practices from other countries' experiences; (b)
develop a new policy framework that will drive the PTSIs to commercialize their research
and development and require of them greater accountability for achieving measurable
results, and increased transparency and better management of the operations of the PTSIs;
(c) provide the PTSIs under the project an opportunity to develop sound business plans
for their commercialization based on assessments of market demands and build a pipeline
of technology projects with private industry; and (d) obtain the participation of private
industry and professional consulting associations in project design and implementation.
5.12 There is also a risk in relation to sustainability. As mentioned, DAPATI is a pilot
scheme. There is a danger that, even if it were considered a great success, the
Government, for budgetary reasons, would not continue to fund it after project
completion. In this regard, the planned evaluation of DAPATI would provide the
Government with a very good information base on which to decide the future of the
program. The Bank would also review with the Government throughout the project
implementation period the success of DAPATI, and plans, if appropriate, for its extension
after the closing date for the project.



- 30-
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01  During negotiations GOI provided assurances that:
(i)    MOI will carry out the DAPATI matching grant program in accordance
with the DAPATI Implementation Manual, including (a) entering into a
management contract with a management consulting firm to undertake the day-to-
day operations; (b) maintaining a Technical Supervisory Committee chaired by
MOI and with representatives of BAPPENAS, MOF, BPPT, the Indonesian
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the Indonesian Association of
Professional Consultants, for purposes of the overall management of the DAPATI
program. In addition, MOI will, on March 31 of each year commencing on March
31, 1996, exchange views with the Bank on the continuing adequacy of the
DAPATI Implementation Manual and, with the Bank's prior concurrence,
promptly revise the above Manual accordingly (para. 3.12);
(ii)  it will implement the Action Plan for the commercialization of the PTSIs
under the project (para 3.20);
(iii)  it will maintain a Steering Committee with the overall responsibility for
project implementation and policy guidance. The Steering Committee would be
chaired by BAPPENAS and consist of representatives of all implementing
agencies (MOI, BPPT and LIPI), MOF and the Indonesian Chamber of
Commerce and Industry. In addition, each implementing agency will maintain a
Project Management and Implementation Unit (PMIU) to undertake the day-to-
day implementation responsibilities of its respective project components. A
central PMIU, reporting to the above Steering Committee, will also be maintained
to coordinate the activities of the above PMIUs (para. 4.02);
(iv)  it will procure goods and services in accordance with the Bank guidelines
(paras. 4.05- 4.06);
(v)   it will submit an audit report for the project related accounts to the Bank
within six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.11);
(vi)  it will monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis and in accordance with
the agreed performance indicators, the implementation of the project (para. 4.13);
(vii)  the central PMIU will send progress reports to the Bank semi-annually
within two months after the end of each reporting period, beginning on June 30,
1996 (para. 4.13);



- 31 -
(viii) a mid-term evaluation of the project's performance will be conducted in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and the report on the
findings and recommendations of that review will be furnished to the Bank by
September 30, 1998 and would be reviewed by the Bank and GOI by November
1, 1998 (para 4.13); and
(ix)  it will submit to the Bank an Implementation Completion Report within
four months of the Closing Date of the Bank Loan (para 4.14).
6.02  During negotiations, GOI agreed that, as conditions of Loan disbursement, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(i)   DAPATI grants unless: the DAPATI Management Contract shall have
been entered into in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and the grant has been
made in accordance with the procedures set out in the DAPATI Implementation
Manual (para 3.12); and
(ii)  equipment and twinning arrangements required to implement the project
component for improved public R&D management unless: the Ministry of
Finance shall have issued the necessary regulations and all other related
documentation satisfactory to the Bank required to implement the Action Plan for
the commercialization of the PTSIs (para 3.20).
6.03  With the above agreement and assurances, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$47.0 million equivalent that would be repayable in
20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the standard variable interest rate.



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.   Legal Charters for BPPT, LIPI and BPPI-MOI
2.   Appraised LIPI ITDP Project Proposal
3.   Appraised BPPT ITDP Project Proposal
- "ITDP Management and Business Integration System - BPPT"
4.   Appraised Semarang Institute Project Proposal
- "ITDP Project Proposal for Strengthening Semarang Industrial R&D Institute"
5.   Appraised IRDCI-MOI Project Proposal
- "Project Proposal for Restructuring and Reforms in R&D Management System of
Institute for Research and Development of Chemical Industry, Ministry of Industry"
6.   Appraised RDCAC-LIPI ITDP Project Proposal
-"ITDP Project Proposal for Restructuring and Reforms in R&D Management
System of Research and Development Centre for Applied Chemistry, Indonesian
Institute of Science (RDCAC-LIPI)"
7.   Annual Reports and Brochures describing the organization staffing and activities of
LIPI and BPPT
8.   Descriptions of the organization, activities and staffing of IRDCI, RDCAC and
Semarang Institute
9.   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Industry
10. Brochure describing the organization, activities and staffing of PUSTAN and
KIM-LIPI
11.  Terms of Reference for Policy Analysis Unit BPPI-MOI
12. Terms of Reference for Science and Technology Management and Policies - BPPT
13. Detailed Project Cost Tables (Expenditure Accounts by Components)
14. Detailed Technical Assistance Table



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Compornnts Project Cost Summary
%     % Total
(Rp. Million)                       (US$ '000)            Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total       Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Improving MSTQ
MST-KIM                                                       260.1     2,100.3     2,360.3      118.6       957.7     1,076 3      89       2
MST-PUSTAN                                                    762.5     7,252.2     8,014.8      347.7    3,307.0    3,654.7        90       6
Subtotal Improving MSTQ                                        1,022.6    9,352.5    10,375.1      466.3    4,264.7    4,731.0        90       8
B. Technology Service Matching Grant Scheme                  20,833.5    10,745.7    31,579.2     9,500.0    4,900.0   14,400.0       34      25
C. R&D Management
1. R&D Systems for BPPT
Improving Public R&D Management                            1,956.6    15,701.4   17,658 0      892 2     7,159.8    8,052 0       89      14
Technology and Business Integration Services               1,109.7    8,594.4     9,704.0      506.0    3,919.0    4,425.0        89       8
Subtotal R&D Systems for BPPT                               3,066.3    24,295.8    27,362.1     1,398.2    11,078.8    12,477.0     89      22
2. R&D Systems for LIPI
R&D Management Systems                                    1,054.5     8,485.9     9,540.4      480.9    3,869.5    4,350.4        89       8
Technology Service Organization                             838.1     5,231.3     6,069.3      382.2     2,385 5    2,767.6       86       5
R&D Center for Applied Chemistry                            803.6     5,887.2     6,690.8      366.5     2,684.5    3,051.0       88       5
Subtotal R&D Systems for LIPI                               2,696.2    19,604.4    22,300.6     1,229.5    8,939.5    10,169.0      88      18
3. R&D Systems for MOI                                                                                                                                w
Semarang Industrial R&D Institute                          1,648.4    8,033.2     9,681.7      751.7    3,663 1     4,414.8       83       8
Institute for R&D of Chemical Industry                    1,646.5    10,415.0    12,061.5      750.8    4,749.2    5,500.0       86       10
Subtotal R&D Systems for MOI                                3,294.9    18,448.2    21,743.2     1,502.5    8,412.3    9,914.8       85      17
Subtotal R&D Management                                       9,057.4   62,348.4     71,405.8    4,130.2   28,430.7   32,560.8       87       57
D. Institutional Strengthening
Science and Technology Management and Policies Unit         1,032.9    4,275.1      5,307.9      471.0     1,949.4    2,420.4      81        4
Agency for Industrial R&D                                     715.8     5,006.1     5,722.0      326.4     2,282.8    2,609.2       87       5
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                          1,748.7     9,281.2    11,029.9      797.4     4,232.2    5,029.6      84        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          32,662.2    91,727.8    124,390.0    14,893.9   41,827.6   56,721.4     74      100
Physical Contingencies                                        613.4    4,246.5      4,859.8      279.7     1,936.4    2,216.1      87        4
Price Contingencies                                         1,092.9     3,311.2     4,404.1      498.3     1,509.9    2,008.2      75        4
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           34,368.4    99,285.5   133,653.9    15,671.9   45,273.8   60,945.7      74      107
M.V TDPkS4RSUAMC0W.XLS



ANNEX -2
Page 2 of 6
Indonesia
Industnal Technology Development Proect
ExpndimNu AccountB Project Cost Summwwy
%     % Total
(Rp. Million)                      (US$ '000)             Foreign   Bss
Local     Foregn       Tobl        Local     Forign       Total   Ex d   Coms
1. Invesbmnt Cost
A. Civil Works                                 142.5          -        142.5       65.0          -        65.0        -        -
B. Equipment
Laboratory Equiprent                        2,173.4    19,560.9    21,734.4     991.1     8,919.7     9,910.8      90      17
Computers and Office Equipment               813.3    7,319.5      8,132.7      370.9    3,337.7    3,708.5        90       7
Subtotal Equipment                            2,986.7   26,880.4    29,867.1     1,361.9   12,257.4    13,619.3      90      24
C. Office Supples
Fumiture                                      11.6          -         11.6        5.3          -         5.3        -        -
Books for Library                            155.1     1,396.0     1,551.1       70.7      636.6       707.3       90       1
Database Subscription                            -     1,997.6     1,997.6          -      910.9       910.9      100       2
Other Office Supplies                        153.4       153.4       306.8       70.0        70.0      139.9       50        -
Subtotal Office Supplies                       320.1     3,547.0     3,867.1      146.0     1,617.4    1,763.4       92       3
D. Staff Training and Development             2,277.9    2,277.9     4,555.7    1,038.7     1,038.7    2,077.4       50       4
E. Technical Assistance
Short-term Consultants                       395.9    3,563.1      3,959.0      180.5    1,624.8      1,805.3      90       3
Long-term Consultants                       1,089.5    9,805.5    10,895.0      496.8    4,471.3    4,968.1        90       9              L
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 1,485.4   13,368.7    14,854.1      677.3    6,096.1     6,773.4       90      12
F. Twinning Arrangemnents                     3,727.4    33,546.6    37,274.0    1,699.7   15,297.1    16,996.8      90      30               1
G. Research and Policy Studies                1,327.2    5,309.0     6,636.2      605.2    2,420.9    3,026.1        80       5
H. Technology Service Matching Grant         20,394.9    6,798.3    27,193.2    9,300.0    3,100.0    12,400.0       25      22
Total Investment Costs                         32,662.2    91,727.8    124,390.0    14,893.9   41,827.6   56,721.4     74     100
II. Recurent Costs
Tool BASELINE COSTS                            32,662.2   91,727.8   124,390.0    14,893.9   41,827.6   56,721.4       74      100
Physical Contingencies                         613.4    4,246.5      4,859.8      279.7     1,936.4    2,216.1       87       4
Price Contingencies                           1,092.9    3,311.2     4,404.1      498.3    1,509.9    2,008.2        75       4
Total PROJECT COSTS                            34,368.4   99,285.5   133,653.9    15,671.9   45,273.8   60,945.7       74      107
U:U7TPkRWSUAfEA LS



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Project Components by Year - Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost
96/97      97/98       98/99      99/00     00/01      Total
A. Improving MSTO
MST-KIM                                                        181.0      407.3       316.8     171.2          -     1,076.3
MST-PUSTAN                                                     994.4     2,111.5      548.8         -          -     3,654.7
Subtotal Improving MSTQ                                        1,175.4     2,518.8      865.6     171.2          -     4,731.0
B. Technology Service Matching Grant Scheme                    1,020.0     2,260.0    4,120.0    3,500.0    3,500.0    14,400.0
C. R&D Management
1. R&D Systems for BPPT
Improving Public R&D Management                            3,609.6     2,058.6    1.695.6     256.6      431.6     8,052.0
Technology and Business Integration Services               1,615.0     1,176.0    1,302.0     166.0      166.0    4,425.0
Subtotal R&D Systems for BPPT                                5,224.6     3,234.6    2,997.6     422.6      597.6    12,477.0
2. R&D Systems for UPI
R&D Management Systems                                       877.7     1,860.6      622.1     611.1      378.9     4,350.4
Tech ology Service Organization                              747.3      423.6       608.7     383.2      604.8     2,767.6
R&D Center for Applied Chemistry                           1,873.6      703.4       195.5     195.5       83.0    3,051.0
Subtotal R&D Systems for UPI                                 3,498.6     2,987.6    1,426.3    1,189.8    1,066.7    10,169.0
3. R&D Systems for MOI
Semarang Industrial R&D Institute                          1,721.5     1,241.9      815.4     392.6      243.4     4,414.8
Institwte for R&D of Chemical Industry                     2,212.5    2,265.6       933.9      74.0       14.0    5,500.0
Subtotal R&D Systems for MOI                                 3,934.0    3,507.5     1,749.3     466.6      257.4    9,914.8
Subtotal R&D Management                                       12,657.2     9,729.7    6,173.2    2,079.0    1,921.7    32,560.8
D. Institutional Strengthening
Science and Technology Management and Policies Unit            713.0      748.9      200.5      370.3      387.7     2,420.4
Agency for Industrial R&D                                      887.8      856.7       864.7         -          -     2,609.2
Subtotal Institutional Strngthening                            1,600.8     1,605.6    1,065.2     370.3      387.7    5,029.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                           16,453.4    16,114.1    12,224.0    6,120.5    5,809.4    56,721.4
Physical Contingencies                                         791.7      712.7      425.2      151.0      135.5     2,216.1
F lice Contingencies                                          212.6       582.4      576.3      293.3     343.7     2,008.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            17,457.6    17,409.2    13,225.5    6,564.9    6,288.6    60,945.7
axes                                                             -           -          -          -         -           -
Foreign Exchange                                            14,819.3    13,890.7    9,269.0    3,774.2    3,520.6   45,273.8
H:V7VPWAR OVWXS



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97      97/98       98/99      99/00      00/01      Total
A. Improving MSTQ
MST-KIM                                                         192.5      443.9       353.9      196.1         -      1,186.3
MST-PUSTAN                                                    1,056.6     2,300.8      612.8         -          -     3,970.2
Subtotal Improving MSTQ                                         1,249.1     2,744.7      966.7      196.1         -      5,156.6
B. Technology Service Matching Grant Scheme                     1,045.2     2,295.8    4,166.6    3,557.8    3,569.2    14,634.6
C. R&D Management
1. R&D Systems for BPPT
Improving Publi,. R&D Management                            3,837.5     2,243.5    1,895.7     294.0      507.1     8,777.8
Technology and business Integration Services                1,717.1     1,282 4     1,454.7     190.0     194 7     4,838.9
Subtotal R&D Systems for BPPT                                 5,554.6     3,525.8    3,350.4     484.0      701.9    13,616.7
2. R&D Systems for LIPI
R&D Management Systems                                        933.3     2,027.4      695.0     700.1      445.5     4,801.3
Technology Service Organization                               795.5      461.9       680.3      439.4     710.7     3,087.7
R&D Center for Applied Chemistry                            1,991.9      767.0       219.5     225.5       97.1     3,301.0
Subtotal R&D Systems for LIPI                                 3,720.6     3,256.3    1,594.9    1,365.0    1,253.2    11,190.0
3. R&D Systems for MOI                                                                                                                        u
Semarang Industrial R&D Institute                           1,831.4     1,360.6      912.3     450.1      288.1     4,842.4                 a
Insttute for R&D of Chemical Industry                       2,353.5     2,472.3    1,042.7      84.7       16.4     5,969.7                  1
Subtotal R&D Systems for MOI                                  4,184.9     3,832.9    1,955.0     534.8      304.6    10,812.1
Subtotal R&D Management                                        13,460.2    10,615.0    6,900.3    2,383.8    2,259.6    35,618.9
D. Institutional Strengthening
Science and Technology Management and Policies Unit            759.0       819.5       224.6     427.3      459.7     2,690.1
Agency for Industrial R&D                                       944.1      934.2       967.3         -          -     2,845.5
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening                            1,703.1     1,753.7    1,191.9     427.3      459.7     5,535.7
Total PROJEC l COSTS                                            17,457.6    17,409.2    13,225.5    6,564.9    6,288.6    60,945.7
U    SDPAMCOMYRTXLS



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(US$ 000)
Base Cost                           Foreign Exchange
96/97      97/98      98/99      99100     00/01      Total      %      Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                 65.0           -          -         -         -       65.0        -          -
B. Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                       4,676.2    3,090.5    1.561.3     457.6     125.2    9,910.8    90.0    8,919.7
Computers and Office Equiprent             2,125.9    1,506.7       70.4       4.3       1.2    3,708.5    90.0    3,337.7
Subtotal Equipment                           6,802.1    4,597.2    1,631.7     461.9     126.4   13,619.3    90.0   12,257.4
C. Office Supplies
Fumiture                                      5.3          -           -         -         -        5.3       -           -
Books for Library                           190.8       167.2      140.4     104.3     104.6      707.3    90.0       636.6
Database Subscription                       399.2       404.4       33.5      38.9      34.9      910.9   100.0       910.9
Other Office Supplies                        51.3        25.1       22.1      21.1      20.3      139.9    50.0        70.0
Subtotal Office Supplies                      646.6       596.7      196.0     164.3     159.8    1,763.4    91.7    1,617.4
D Staff Training and Developnment             759.5      955.8       252.3      64.1      45.7    2,077.4    50.0    1,038.7
E. Technical Assistance
Short-term Consultants                      452.3       844.8      421.9      42.7      43.6    1,805.3    90.0    1,624.8               1
Long-term Consultants                      1,335.8    1,311.3    1,371.0     400.0     550.0    4,968.1    90.0    4,471.3               ,
Subtotal Technical Assistance                1,788.1    2,156.1    1,792.9     442.7     593.6    6,773.4    90.0    6,096.1               <
F. Twinning Arrangements                     4,889.0    4,930.5    4,368.4    1,472.6   1,336.3   16,996.8    90.0   15,297.1              1
G. Research and Policy Studies                883.1     1,017.8      262.7     414.9     447.6    3,026.1    80.0    2,420.9
H Technology Service Matching Grant           620.0    1,860.0    3,720.0   3,100.0   3,100.0   12,400.0    25.0    3,100.0
Total Investment Costs                        16,453.4   16,114.1    12,224.0   6,120.5   5,809.4   56,721.4    73.7   41,827.6
II. Recurrent Costs
Total BASELINE COSTS                          16,453.4   16,114.1    12,224.0   6,120.5   5,809.4   56,721.4    73.7   41,827.6
Physical Contingencies                        791.7      712.7       425.2     151.0     135.5    2,216.1    87.4    1,936.4
Price Contingencies                           212.6      582.4       576.3     293.3     343.7    2,008.2    75.2    1,509.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                           17,457.6   17,409.2   13,225.5   6,564.9   6,288.6   60,945.7    74.3   45,273.8
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                            14,819.3   13,890.7    9,269.0   3,774.2   3,520.6   45,273.8
uDMV,AREAXALS



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
96/97      97/98       98/99      99/00     00/01      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                   70.0          -           -         -          -       70.0
B. Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                        4,970.9     3,366.9    1,743.3     523.7      146.9    10,751.6
Computers and Office Equipment              2,259.9     1,641.4       78.6       4.9        1.4     3,986.2
Subtotal Equipment                            7,230.8     5,008.3    1,821.9     528.6      148.3    14,737.8
C. Office Supplies
Furniture                                       5.7          -           -         -         -         5.7
Books for Library                             202.8      182.2       156.8     119.4      122.7      783.8
Database Subscription                         423.8      438.7        37.1      44.1       40.4      984.1
Other Office Supplies                          54.8       27.8        25.4      25.1       25.0      158.1
Subtotal Office Supplies                        687.1      648.7       219.3     188.5      188.2     1,931.8
D. Staff Training and Development               811.8     1,058.5      289.6      76.2      56.4      2,292.5
E. Technical Assistance
Short-term Consultants                        480.8      920.3       471.1      48.9      51.1      1,972.2                       w
Long-term Consultants                       1,420.0     1,428.6    1,530.8     457.8     645.2      5,482.3                       00
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 1,900.8     2,348.9    2,001.9     506.6     696.4      7,454.5
F. Twinning Arrangements                      5,197.1     5,371.4    4,877.5    1,685.3    1,567.6    18,699.0
G. Research and Policy Studies                  940.1     1,113.4      295.4     479.5      531.8     3,360.1
H. Technology Service Matching Grant            620.0     1,860.0    3,720.0    3,100.0    3,100.0    12,400.0
Total Investment Costs                         17,457.6    17,409.2    13,225.5    6,564.9    6,288.6    60,945.7
II. Recurrent Costs
Total PROJECT COSTS                             17,457.6    17,409.2    13,225.5   6,564.9    6,288.6    60,945.7
Ml:UTDPMSAR%EAYRT.XLS



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
Indonesib
Industrial Technology Developm*at Project
Components by Financiers
(USS '000)
Government of                                                                      Local
Indonesia           IBRD             Industry            Total                   (Excl.   Duties &
Amount    %       Amount      %     Amount    %        Amount      %    For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
A. Improving MSTQ
MST-KIM                                                   176.8    14.9    1,009.5   85.1              -         1,186.3    1.9    1,049.4      136.9       -
MST-PUSTAN                                                625.9    15.8    3,344.4    84.2         -       -    3,970.2     6.5    3,578.0      392.3
Subtotal Improving MSTQ                                     802.6    15.6    4,353.9    84.4         -       -    5,156.6     8.5    4,627.4     529.1
S. Technology Service Matching Grant Scheme                   0.0       -    8,434.6    57.6   6,200.0    42.4   14,634.6    24.0    5,096.7    9,537.9
C. R&D Management
1. R&D Systems for BPPT
Improving Public R&D Management                        1,597.7    18.2    7,180.1    81.8        -       -    8,77.8    14.4    7,767.2    1,010.6
Technology and Business Integration Services            936.6    19.4    3,902.3    80.6         -             4,838.9    7.9    4,264.2      574.7
Subtotal R&D Systems for BPPT                            2,534.3    18.6   11,082.4    81.4        -       -   13,616.7    22.3   12,031.4    1,585.3
2. R&D Systems for UPI
R&D Management Systems                                  897.9    18.7    3,903.4    81.3         -            4,801.3     7.9    4,244.0      557.3
Tecinology Service Organization                         729.4    23.6    2,358.3    76.4         -       -    3,087.7    5.1    2,642.4       445.3
R&D Center for Applbd Chemistry                         357.1    10.8    2,944.0   89.2          -            3,301.0     5.4    2,890.6      410.4
Subtotal R&D Systems for UPI                             1,984.4    17.7    9,205.7    82.3        -       -   11,190.0    18.4    9,777.0    1,413.1
3. R&D Systems for MOI
Semarang Industrial R&D Institute                       602.3    12.4    4,240.2    87.6         -       -    4,842.4     7.9    3,988.6     853.8
Institutefor R&Dof Chemical Industry                    696.2    11.7    5,273.6    88.3                 -    5,969.7     9.8    5,132.7     837.1
Subtotal R&D Systems for MO                              1,298.4    12.0    9,513.7    88.0        -       -   10,812.1    17.7    9,121.2    1,690.9
Subtotal R&D MNageent                                      5.817.1    16.3   29,801.8    83.7        -       -   35,618.9    58.4   30,929.6    4,689.3
D Insttutiuoal Strengthening
Science and Technology  anagenbrt wnd Polici Unit         527.7    19.6    2,162.4    80.4         -       -    2,690.1     4.4    2,143.5     546.6
Agency for Industrial R&O                                 562.8    19.8    2,282.7    80.2         -       -    2,845.5     4.7    2,476.5     369.0
Subtotal lnstiitutil Strengthenin                          1,090.5    19.7    4,445.1    80.3        -            5,535.7     9.1    4,620.0     915.6
Totai Disbursenmnt                                         7,710.3    12.7   47Q35.4    77.2   6,200.0    10.2   60,945.7   100.0   45,273.8   15,671.9



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
Governrment of                                                                         Local
Indonesia            IBRD              Industry             Total                    (Excl.   Duties &
Amount      %      Amount      %      Amount    %        Amount       %     For. Exch.   Taxes)    Taxes
1. Investmnent Costs
A. Civil Works                                 70.0   100.0                     -                -        70.0     0.1          -        70.0
B. Equipmnent
Laboratory Equipment                       1,075.2    10.0    9,676.4    90.0          -       -    10,751.6    17.6    9,640.4    1,111.2
Computers and Office Equipment              398.6    10.0    3,587.6    90.0           -       -    3,986.2      6.5     3,578.1      408.1        -
Subtotal Equipment                           1,473.8    10.0   13,264.0    90.0          -       -    14,737.8    24.2    13,218.5    1,519.3        -
C. Office Supplies
Fumiture                                      5.7   100.0           -       -          -       -         5.7       -          -         5.7        -
Books for Library                            39.2      5.0      744.6    95.0          -       -       783.8     1.3      701.0        82.8
Database Subscription                        49.2      5.0      934.9    95.0          -       -       984.1     1.6      984.1           -        -
OtherOfficeSupplies                         158.1   100.0           -       -          -       -       158.1     0.3       76.8        81.3        -
Subtotal Office Supplies                      252.2    13.1      1,679.6    86.9         -       -     1,931.8     3.2     1,762.0      169.8        -
D Staff Training and Development              458.5    20.0    1,834.0    80.0           -       -     2,292.5     3.8    1,124.3    1,168.3         -
E. Technical Assistance
Short-term Consultants                      394.4    20.0    1,577.8    80.0           -       -     1,972.2     3.2     1,767.0      205.2        -       
Long-term Consultants                       649.5    11.8    4,832.8    882            -       -     5,482.3     9.0    4,905.9       576.4        -
Subtotal Technical Assistance                1,044.0    14.0    6,410.6    86.0          -       -    7,454.5    12.2    6,672.9        781.6        -
F. Twinning Arrangements                     3,739.8    20.0    14,959.2    80.0                 -    18,699.0    30.7    16,739.0    1,960.0        -
G. Research and Policy Studies                672.0    20.0    2,688.1    80.0           -       -     3,360.1     5.5    2,657.2       703.0        -
H. Technology Service Matching Grant              -       -     6,200.0    50.0   6,200.0    50.0   12,400.0    20.3    3,100.0    9,300.0           -
TotallInvestnent Costs                         7,710.3    12.7   47,035.4    77.2   6,200.0    10.2   60,945.7   100.0   45,273.8   15,671.9
N. R.current Costs
Total Disbursement                             7,710.3    12.7   47,035.4    77.2   6,200.0    10.2   60,945.7   100.0   45,273.8   15,671.9           -
VrDPLSARWEXFFXLS



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 17
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Responsibilities and Schedule
1.    A Steering Committee will be established to oversee implementation of the Project
and to provide overall policy guidance. The committee members will include central
government agencies, project implementing agencies and private institutions.
2.    Each project implementing agency will set up its own Project Management and
Implementation Unit (PMIU) to be responsible for implementation of its own project
components. An non-standing central PMIU will be set up jointly by all the three
implementing agencies to coordinate between the Steering Committee and the project
implementing agencies.
3.    The Project Implementation Organization Chart, TOR for PMIUs and Project
Implementation Schedule are attached to this Annex.
M VrDPLS4RUNNEK4_J.DO



ANNEX  4
INDONESIA                                                 Page 2 of 17
Industnal Technology Development Project
Implementation Organization Chart
.-.--..                           -   ...-:. ..
:0 ~ITDP 
_ .    . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .
Steerngz Commtte
KMNRT, DRN, BPPT, MOI, MOF,
Bappenas, LIPI, Private Sector
..... ~ ~ ~ X :     ..   ...... .....   .  
. ... ..   ........
PMIU         l.l.PMIU                                                                         PMIU
UPIPBPPT                                            MOI B'O
Private Sector
RDmsrrso                               RDMSrTBISMmn            4ulg anun         flntg&r~aSemarang
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RC
M    i  .........,4i-
r-----------  -------------_-_-
r -   -  -  -                         
M.tID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jkn                             Maa           L*m Pod   OWkSurbDSwrn



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 17
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PMIU)
Implementinz Agencv PMIU
1.    Responsibilities: Each implementing agency (MOI, BPPT and LIPI) will establish
its own Project Management and Implementation Unit (PMIU), which will be responsible
for the administration of its respective project component. Specifically, each PMIU's
responsibilities will be to:
(a)  prepare the annual work plans, budgets and expenditure reports for
implementation of each of its agency's ITDP activities;
(b)  expedite procurement of equipment and supplies and selection of
consultants; and monitor progress of all procurement activities;
(c)  collect, process and maintain records of all disbursement documentation;
(d)  monitor all overseas and in-country training plans for its agency;
(e)  ensure that project management and operational guidelines, as approved by
the Steering Committee and the World Bank, are followed in project
implementation;
(f)  monitor project implementation schedules, performance indicators, and
progress in disbursement schedules for each ITDP supported activities; and
(g)  prepare Semi-Annual Progress Report on the above for submission through
the Central PMIU to the Steering Committee and the World Bank.
Central PMIU
2.    Responsibilities: To ensure necessary and adequate coordination and
collaboration among the project components, a central PMIU should be established.
Specifically, its responsibilities will be to:
M. rDPMSRlANNEX3.DOC



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 17
(a) support ITDP Steering Committee in coordination of project
implementation;
(b) consolidate the Semi-annual Progress Report prepared by each implementing
agency's PMIU for submission to the ITDP Steering Committee and to the
World Bank;
(c) organize regular project component managers' meetings for progress
reviews and identification of implementation issues that need to be addressed
by the implementing agency's management; and
(d) arrange annual audits of the Project accounts (Special Accounts and
Statement of Expenditures) and help ensure timely transmission of all audit
reports to the Steering Committee and the World Bank.
3.    Staffing: The central PMIU will be set up jointly by all the three PMIUs (BPPT,
LIPI and MOI) with each PMIU designating the necessary staff. The central PMITJ staff
will normally work for his/her respective PMIU and only get together to work as a team
when they need to perform the responsibilities outlined above.



INDONESIA                                                                                 ANNEX  4
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              Page 5 of 17
Implementation Schedule
1996        ]      1997                1998        ]       1999        ]       2000                2001
ID   Task Name                         Duration      Start     Finish   Q     1 2  0Q3  Q4  Ql|Q2  03  Q4  01  02| 03|          04|Q l 1  2     |Q3|04]1      2 3       4        02  03  04
1   Loan Effecniveness                        Od   02/15/96   02/15/96  * 02115
2    Projed Launch Workshop                   2w   03/26/96   04/08/96
3    Supervision Mission                      2w   11/01/96   11/14/96
4    SupervisionMission                       2w   05/01/97   05/14/97
4    Supervision Mission                      2w    11/03/97   01/14/97
6    Supervision Mission                      2w   05/01/97   03/14/98
7    Mid-Term Review                          2w    11/02/98   11/13/98
3    Supervision eission                      2w    11/01/99   11/12/99
9    Supervision mission                      2w    11/01/00   11/14/00
1    Stnul-AunualProgreReporl              1174d   12/31/9C   06/30/01
21   Annrual Audit Report                   1045d   03131/97   03131/01                         OO
27   ICR mission                              3w   10/01/01   10/19/01
23   Project Comnpldion                        Od   06/30/01   06/30/01
29  ILoanAccoutClosingDatc                     Od   12/31/01   12/31/01



'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a1I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
R   R   R  ICK,              S.                 CL
I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C1
40
cn  Cps~~~~~
I-~~~~~~~~P
VA U
Owi
.   -                  'CO~~~4
0m ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~c
.. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .  . .. .. .. .. .. . .. ..  . .. ..  .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .  .. . .. .. .. .. .. .
... ... ... ...-. ... ...
-.    .   -    -  90-



! 0 t  g W W T T X X X 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'ji .;                                                                            -                                       -    
IO Ii~ hil   |                                                                                                     -0   8" >    ^-
0~~~~~~
ILI
_   I         I
-K   -  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     -5
a,  -4  00a,00                                   0    0    0,0 0           0    0 --,000o
............................................................................................................... ....  ....   1.. 
-    t   .
Ca                                            Zj~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-u 0
Zco
..   .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ..  .. .  .. ..    . .. ..   .. .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ... .. .. .. .    . .. .. ... .. .. .. ... .. .. ..
..   . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ..  . .   . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. .   . . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .
oj C:
at~
.. .. .  . . .. .        . . .. .. .  . . .. .. . .. . .  .. .  . . ..   . . .. . ..   . . .   . .. .   . .. . .. .. . .. . ..   . . .. . .. .. . .. . ..C
e0
L~~~~~~~~~



Cl.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~.
B                                                                                                                                                                                                              -             - m
oc    x ~          ~                     ~                     ~                     ~                    ~                           
.-    R                        I                            ag                                                                                                                                                         , a
-17~~~~~~~~-
....................................  ! ...                             ...             ...................................                                                                   ....................   .................
..   .. . .. . .. . .. .  . . .. . . .. . ..   .  ..   .  ..   .   ..  .  ..   .  .     ..     ..       .      .    .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  ..  .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .      .  .  .        .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .
*  .~~~~~  -   -                                   Cr~~~~~~
0'.  0'       ON                                                                     '          ~A    ~AOx                                                 -~           -J                                                                                                                                                                                          g
.. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . .   . . .     .  .  ..   .  .   .  .  .    .  .          .  ..   .  .  .  .  .   ..  .  .       .  .   ..  .  .   .  .  .  ..   .  .  .   .  ..   .  .  .  .  .        ..  .              .  ..   .  .  .  .  .
to
.. .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. .. . ..   .. . .   . .. .. . .. . .  . ..  ..   . ..   .  ..   .  ..   .  ..   ..   .  ..   .     . .  ..   .   .   ..  .   ..  .   ..  .            .  .           . ..  .  ..   .  ..   .
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~  ~
C)                                                                                                           2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
.. .. . .   .   . .. . .. . .. .   . .. . .. .   . .. . .. .   . . .. .. . .. . .  . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .   . .. . .   .. . ..   .. . .   .. . ..   .. .          . .  ..      ..   ..   .     . .  ..c



1n
or            ~              .
ffi h. ~ 4h t.J C
0-4          t
M               9             CL                 '9L     C.
Zo
C)
La
-  -  L~~    C  -                           .~~
-J                        O
C  -  9~~~~~~~J C      -~~~    -      J 
... .. ... .. ...            . ... .. ... .. ... .. ... .. ..    J...
r, o
0 0                                                           -f.J
0                                                           L0 to
0 0 ~           ~           ~           ~             
0                                                                          >0 
U
....   ......                                          4~~~~
0  0                                                        0~~~~~~....  ........  ...
cm               0
6         7                                       



C2.    CL  Q,    CL     95.                  0.            -L                  C.         C b              r-
0             6'    0        ,      ,
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
A 0                                                 O N O l            I    C7         a    ,        al  47      0a,         ~0 -                               0-  - 
00                                                                  0      -    -    -     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. r  0  ~ 
0   ~~~~    L  A  A  ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~    ~~~J    -     -      -  ~~~~~~~   -                                              CY 0  0  0  6
a.  Ch ~    ~          ~           ~          ~          ~          ~         .              j
.-Z
*  0a  ~~~~~~~~~4
.. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .  . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .  . .. .. . ..   .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. . .. .
-.  I.J....~~~~~~                          -~c
-~~    -  C,'                           C~
... .. .. . . . . .. .. . .. .. . . .. . .. . . .  .   . . . . . .. . .. . . ..  .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . .
C)w
I   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z 
CD) 
4)
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
09~~~~~~~



-1 - -         -   -----  --    a------                                                                  w  t o              U -  --  -          -
01    01    01    01    01    01    011 011 b                                                       .b            U      U      U     U 
.r          x 0
9L~~~~ 15  -
I C
IL                                                                                                                                                      Q.  -
-    C~~~~~ 
LA   Ci      C                    0     0      Q                         00 Go           0          0     00                  C ,    e    C,    4    a, 0  C               
-  -              -  U  IA ~~~~~                                                                             ~~~             ~~~~~~iA  -  -    0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L    4
to
to3  
.. .  . . .. . .. .  .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. .  . . .. . .   . .   . . .. . .
CD
I                                                 A0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
..  . . .    ..  . . ...   .       .. . .  . .. ..  .. . .. .. . .. .   . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .
CR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Y~~~~~~~~~ .N u_ -9 _ . _ . BJ .~ 0 to t  1o*t9
Ia I                   t i A i     - 4 l l -0   0                                                 a
r  r~~~~~~~~r
g     *    fi  1t   S  _  _   X  _   s  i  s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a s s'a 
j e| i i  5                                      . O.i  I; S05 
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
ot~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
.....................................................................................................................................  ....   .....  .....  ......I ....................... .......     3
--   -- 0-   - --    -       -             11--           ----- -                  -- 
e              |  _1   O               l  l 0 0 0     0             -           i 0g 1
0
O   10 ~      ~        * 
0   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- 
0  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0
.   ... ------'''  '--1  --  --.. .... -1-..- ..----     ..----- ..--...--.....
_    9 o  _



INDONES[A                                                                                   ANNEX  4
INDUSTRTIAL TECIHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                               Pagel3of 17
Implementation Schedule - RDCAC Component (LIPI)
ID    Task Name                                                                        Duration      Start     Finish    1  2  30401   203011    203   4  1
1    TWINNING; ACTVITIES                                                                   1040d  03/01/96   02/24/00
2         RDCAC-IRDCII                                                                     1040d  03101/96   02Q24/00                 .                                          _
3              Development of paln uil based amnides and esiers                            208w   03/01/96   02/24/00
4              Development of palm oil based plasticizer for plastics                      208w   03/01/96   02/24/00
5              Development of proces-s for lipase based enzyme hydrolysis of tryglycerides  208w   03/01/96   02/24/00
6    TRAINING (R&D NIanarenieir!)                                                          1301d  03/01/96   02/23/01
7         RDCAC - Selected Twinuing Partner                                                 520d  03/01/96   02/26/98
8              Technology pricing. niarketing and business development                      52w  03/01/96   02/27/97
9              Technology transter and R&D managemcntn                                      104w  03/01/96   02/26/98    _                                        :             :
10         Down Sretnm Processing il Blotechnology                                         104W   03/01/96   02/24/00   T..
11             Bio-organic downstearn process                                               208w  03/01/96   02/24/00
12             Separation and purification process                                          208w  03.'0; /96   02/24/00
13             Chemical modification                                                        208w   03/01/96   02/24/00
14             Characterization  and performance assay process                              208w   03/01/96   02/24/00     - ---------------------- - --   -----              -------
15        Engineering & Technolory in Membrane Systemn                                     104W   03/01/96   02124/00
16             Memnbran.e faricai:O                                                         208w   03/01/96   02/24/00
17             Spiral wound and hollow fiber modul development                              208w   03/01/96   02/24/00                                                                        :
18             Membrane performance tles                                                    208w   03/01/96   02/24/00
19        Catalytic Proces Technology                                                      1040d  03/01/96   02/24/00
20             Hydrogenation processes on a batch basis for palm oil                        208w   03/01/96   02/24/00    _-  ---_--4
21             Hydrogenation processes on a oestinuoua basis for lube oil                   208w  03/01/96   02/24/00    _                             _
22             Catalyst preparlion                                                          208w  03/01/96   02
23         Technology Tranfer In Oleochential Derived Value Added Products                  208w   03/03/97   02/23/01
24    CHEMICAL TECINOLOGY  INFORMATION SYSTEM                                              1300d  03/01/96   02/22/01
21        CD Rorn for Patents                                                               260w   03/01/96   02/22/01
w EA3IE1EWORaLDBANK\TD?S.AAtANNEX4_S.4PP



* ~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
xlro ~ ~   ~ ~            ~         ~ ~~~~~~ .  _   ...................................
* oJ
I- C. ,
ae                                       -           
A.                                     U
.. . . . . .  .. .  .. . . . .. . . .   ...  ...   ..
.    .   .  .    .              s.  .  o  .. F .   ...
o   0   0   0    0   0   0    @   0   0    0
0   0   CD   0   0   0   0    0   CD   0   0
CC0 0   (4   0   0       O N"         v   I
0 ~~~~~            'o~~~1   '00 la0   0
0~~~~ ~ to



t   4  t  t   i  o  o   o  o  o  t 2  > 4  {  S  t  S  ^, S S S 2 v sx O O 3 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  46 w  4 
|40          S    '4  In    m    a.            O      '    N    U  W                    la
II                                                                                                                        I
..   ....................  ..............................................................................
S 111  11                                                                               -1C29
ss~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
pi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
a   8~~~~
a,              Go -       -                 -    - 
'0a
'a
10
'a4
-                                                                                                                                                    0p
ob                                                                                                              flota             >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .. . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .0.. . . . . . .   . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  M



- 56 -
C,
m1- o a
z5 E
Il                          I               III
SS   I ~~I              I   II                I1
ME .n
000  ~ ~ ~ ~ C, 00 *    t, e
wt30~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ al CD a 0 0 al      0 0  
oj    -   -   -   -   -   -~~~~~~~~~~(' -   -  -~  -   -   -   - . - '  '  '  '4 (4 (.  '
n E   e S e e e S   e S S   p S  S S S S     pM
iSt~~l sN (W   t . 
1jjjSiJ 111131 in "-"" E o. H"-<@lzlelW)
'9   jL! &
cmF                     to ~ 0 I..  @ - N e    (a   f



INDONEStA                                                                                ANNEX  4
INDUSTRIAL TECIhNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                            Page 17 of 17
Implementation Schedule - BPPI (MO0) Component
1996           1997          1998            1999          2000
ID    Task Name                                                                 Duration    Start       Finish   QTQ2 |03 |Q4 |Q1 102 |Q3 |Q4 Q10 |02 IQ3 104 ol1 (Q2 103 (04 |01 (|2 |Q3 |Q4 |Q1
1    Establishment of PAU                                                             gw   03/01/96   U4.'25/96
2    Program Developmenl/Business Plan                                               39w   03/01/96   11/28/96
3    Set-up Information System and Library                                            80w   04/26/96   11/06/97
4    Studies                                                                        1260d   04126/96   01/22/01
s         Analyzing emerging industry                                                40w   04/26/96   01/30/97
6         Strategies and measures for developing new leading industry                52w   08/30/96   08/28/97
7         Developing supporting industry                                             52w   08/30/96   08/28/97
8         Other studies in competitiveness, export promotion and SMI development    208w   02/28/97   02/22/01                   _                             __
9    StaffTraining and Development                                                  220w   11/29/96   02/15/01
10    Workshops snd SenLnars                                                         653d   03131/97   0MM30/99                                         O
Div DA~WAtE WOttLDB4NKlttDP,AA\ANNEX41 t1.MPP



ANNEX 5
Page I of 8
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTE OF NATIONAL METROLOGY (KIM - LEPI)
Key Perform2ane Indicators
During ITDP Implementation Period
No.                 Description of Performance Indicators                    1996/1997       1997/1998       1998/1999       1999/2000
1   No. of bilateral recognitions of KIM-LIPI and INK                              -               -               2               2
2   No. of qualified lab assessors                                                  -              15              15               -
3   No. of calibration labs accredited to ISO Guide 25                              5              10              15              10
4   % of calibration labs showing acceptable intercomparison results                -            50%             80%             90%
5   Longest backlog before initiating calibration at KIM-LIPI (weeks)               8               4               2               2
M:. flDSARWPIS.fl



ANNEX 5
INDONESIA                                                                 Page 2 of 8
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CENTER FOR INDUSTRIAL STANDARDS (MOI)
Mey PerorMAnce Indicators
During ITDP Implementation Period
No.                         Description of Performance Indicators                            1996/1997        1997/1998        1998/1999        1999/2000
QUALITY AWARENESS
I    No. of companies in quality awareness program                                                500            1,000            1,500
2    No. of companies implementing quality programs                                               100              200              300              400
3    No. of co. seeking ISO 9000 certification through ITDP supported KAN program                    -             100              200              300
OUALITY TRAINTING
4    Negotiations completed for translation and publication of textbooks                         Done
5    Training of trainers completed                                                              Done
6    Number of books published                                                                                       3                5
7    No. of MSTQ student class-hours in each training institution                                    -          40,000           40,000           40,000
MSTO EXTENSION AGENT PROGRAM
8    Market study completed/outreach program planned                                             Donc
9    MSTQ extension agents training                                                    Agents selected, Training completed
training begun
10   No. of SMls assisted by agents                                                                                                 800              800
LABORATORY UPGRADING PROCRAM
11   Preparation of strategic plans for 5 labs                                                                    Done
12   No. of labs within acceptable limits of intercomparison testing                                                 3                                 4
13   No. of labs in conformity with ISO/IEC Guide 25/DSN 01                                                                        All 5            All 5
14   No. of labs intemationally recognized and/or accredited                                                                          3             All 5
M. VTDPLSAAM!.X5XLS



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIA;L TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DANA KEMITRAAN PENINGKATAN TECHNOLOGI INDUSTRI (DAPATI)
(Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme - TSMGS)
Key Perfornance Indicators
During ITDP Implementation Period
No.                 Description of Performance Indicators                   1996/1997     1997/1998     1998/1999     1999/2000    2000/2001
1   Minimum nunber of contracts signed                                           20           100           300           500           600
2   Percentage of contracts successfully achieving expected results a/            -              -          50%              -          50%
3   Minimum percentage of grant fund disbursed b/                                5%           20%           50%           75%           90%        
Note: aJ This indicator is only reviewed at the mnid-term review and upon project completion.
b/ On a cumulative basis.
Mfu714Ln74RwZS



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGENCY FOR ASSESSMENT AND APPLICATION OF TECHNOLOGY (BPPT)
Kev Performance Indicators
During ITDP Implementation Period
No.        Description of Performance Indicators          1996/1997     1997/1998      1998/1999     1999/2000     2000/2001
1    Self-financing Ratio                                    5.5%          7.5%          15.0%         20.0%          25.0%
2    Number of companies directly contacted                      0           150           200            250           300
3    Number of proposals submitted                               0            45            55             70            85
4    Number of contracts signed                                  0            40             50            65            80
5    Number of companies informed                            1,000         2,000          2,500         3,000         3,800
At:flUSARiANNEXS5S



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
INDONESIA
INDUSTRL41 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDONESLN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCES (LEPI)
Key Performance Indicators
During ITDP Implementation Period
No.          Description of Performance Indicators           1996/1997     1997/1998     1998/1999     1999/2000     2000/2001
l   Self-financing Ratio                                       11.0%         13.5%         15.0%         20.0%          25.0%
2   Number of companies directly contacted                         25            75           150           250           500
3   Number of proposals submitted                                  10            15            25            50            75
4   Number of contracts signed                                      5            10            20            35            50
5   Number of companies inforned                                 250            400           800         1,000          1,500
M. UlTLSWWEAPS.fls



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of S
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
R&D CENTER FOR APPLIED CHEMISTRY (RDCAC) - LIPI
Kev PerforTance Indicators
Prior to ITDP                          During ITDP Implementation Pcriod
No.      Desctiption of Perfonnance Indicators                     1993/1994     1994/1995     1995/19%          1996/1997     1997/1998     1998/1999     1999/2000
I   Self-financing Ratio                                              37.0%         37.6%         37.5%            39.5%         43.7%/.       494%          55.5%
Other Indicators:
2   Number of new clients contacted for business linkage                   -                         14                14            15            18           22
3 Number of contracts signed
Research contact                                                  5             1             3                 5            6             7             8
Consultancy                                                                     1             2                 3            4             6             8
Training                                                         12            12            12                12            12            12            12
Material analysis                                                47            50            60               70            75            75            75
4   Number of contacts successfully compleied
Research contact                                                  I             1             3                 4             5            7             8
Consultancy                                                        -            1             2                 3            4             6             S
Training                                                         12            12            12                12            12           12            12
Material anlysis                                                 47            50            60               70            75            75            75
5   Revenue generated from tcimical sarvices (Rp. m) a/                1,24S         1,501         1,600            1,900         2,300         2,900         3,650
6   Overall income to expenditure rtio b/                             0.370         0.376         0.375             0.395         0.437         0.494         0.555
7   Number of technologies licensed                                        -             -             -                I             1            2             3
8   Revenue generated from tochnology licensing (Rp. m)                    -             -             -                -          150           300           600
9   Value of production of cmmercialized tch. (Rp. m)                   300           300           300              300           480           510           560
10  Number of laboratories acaedited                                       -             -             I                1             2             -             -
Note: a/ Included revenue from No. S and 9.
bl Expenditure = routine + development + ovehead.
MA"AUMDS



ANNEX 5
Pagc 7 of 8
INDONESLI
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
INSTI1UTE FOR R&D OF CHEMICAL INDUSTRY (IIDCI) - MOI
Keya Pedonnaknee lndiestors
Prior to ITDP                          During ITDP Implementation Period
No.      Description or Perfornance Indicaton                 1993/1994    1994/1995    1995/1996         1996/1997    1997/1998    1998/1999    1999/2000
1   Scif-financing Ratio                                        15.9%/0       17.2%         19.8%            30.8%        36.6%         43.0%         47.9%
Other Indicators:
2   Numberofnewclientscontactedforbusinesslinkage                   25           40            80               96           115           138          165      a'
3   Number ofcontracts signed a/                                    20           30            56               67            80            96          115
4   Numberofcontlctssucessfullycompked                              10            15           28               34            40            48           58
S   Revenue generated (Rp. million)                                208          275           338              624           829         1,170         1,490
6   Total expenditure (Rp. million)                              1,305         1,603         1,706            2,027        2,266         2,720         3,112
7   Income to expenditure ratio (5/6)                             0.16          0.17         0.20              0.31         0.37          0.43          0.48
8   Number of technologies licensed                                                -             -                -            -             1            2
9   Revenue generated from technology licensing (Rp. m)                     -             -              -                     -            15           30
10 Number of laboratories awcredited:
- nationally                                                              -             -               2              -            -             -
- intenationally                                                          -             -                -            2
Note: a/ including testing, technology development and consultancy.
AtU4aWNAWMs



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of a
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEMARANG INDUSTRIAL R&D INSTITUTE - MOI
Key Performance 1ndicators
Prior to ITDP                              During ITDP Implementation Period
No.       Description of Performance Indicators                 1993/1994     1994/1995      1995/1996        1996/1997      1997/1998     1998/1999     1999/2000
1   Self-financing Ratio                                          32.0%         48.3%          53.4%            62.6%          65.7%         70.2%          75.0%
Other Indicators:
2   Numberofnew clients contacted forbusiness linkage                 15            20            25                50            75            100           125
3   Number of contracts signed a/                                     20            40            60                80            100           125           135
4   Number of contracts successfully completed b/                    280           300            325              400           500            650           750
5   Revenue generated (Rp. million)                                  400           732           752             1,156          1,491         2,003         2,812
6   Total expanditure (Rp. million)                                1,250          1,516         1,407             1,846         2,270         2,853          3,750
7   Income to expeiditure ratio (5/6)                               0.32          0.48           0.53             0.63           0.66          0.70           0.75
8   Number of technologies licensed                                    0             0             0                 1              1             2             2
9   Revenue generated from technology licAxsing (Rp. m)                0             0              0               10             10            20            40
10 Number of laboratories accrediated:
- nationally                                                  -              -             -                I              I
- intenationally                                              -                            -                I             I
Note: a/ including design engineering, testing, technology development and consultancy.
W a cumulative total.
KfMWWroa.m Am



ANNEX 6
Page I of 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE v
Lb of TA              POWe/ Objecdve           Implmmfth             afTOR (Doe)            Shes Ltl (Date)       Standard           RapohiMty for Supe-luom
CembwWAcU                                             Agnicy        Prepaed      Expctd    Prpared   Epeected    c                               RSI    HQ
A. Ii __mmntat    Suppor
1. In_,atntioa of        Day-to-dy mang-t of    MOI                   Agreed at                  Before                       Y                               X
Tecim    Saevices        te Matching-ra  Schee                         appraisl                  negotiations
Maing Grat Scheme
1. Iproving Muanamt   Eablish systems at BPPT to   BPPT               Agreed at                  Before                      y                                X
Systm and Practices      develop and mwag Cona                        appraisa                   negotiations
Reerch with industry
2. Inroving Maagmut   Estblish ystens at LIPI to    LIPI               Agreed at                 Before                       y                               X
Systan and Practicea     develop and manage Cotai                     apprail                    negotiations
Research with induezy
3. Lmroving Magenat   Support conannrcializaiion of  LIPI (RDCAC)    Agmed at                    Before                      y                                X
Systan and Practices     one lab                                      appraisal                  negotiations
4. Improving Manganet  Support conunecialization of  MOI (IRDCI and   Agreed at                  Before                       y                               X
Systenam And Prctices    two labs                   BISm)             appraisal                  negotiations
5. Stegeing the          Gain intenabonal          LUPI (KIM)         Agreed at                  Before                      N                                X                         0
Natioral Metrology Lab    recognution for its testng and              appraisal                  negotiations
calibration cenification and
inprove service prcing
6. Strengtheing MSTQ     Upgrade profciency of       MOI (PUSTAN)   Agreed at                    Before                      N                                X
seavices                testing laboratories and                      appraisal                  negotiations
institute MSTQ trbiing and
ouutach pogm
Subtot
C. Polcy Advice/Sbihca
1. Improved foumulation    Strengthen Science and   BPPT              Agreed at                  Before                      N                               X
of SAT policies nd       Techmology Policy Unit                       appraisal                  negotiations
inproved coordinaton of
SAT with iAndtrial       Strengthen Policy Advisoy    MO  BP)BefoN
policies nd the private  Unit   ny                  MOI (BPPI)         Agreed at                 Begotreios                  N                                X
sectoraprais
Subtotal
Grand Toal
I/ Includes short and long-term consulants and twinning arrangemnts.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
Indonesia
Industrial Technology Development Project
Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ '000)
IBRD Loan Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year    Semester        By Semester        Cumulative
1996              1                      -                 -
2                7,288.9           7,288.9
1997              3                7,288.9           14,577.8
4                7,014.1          21,591.9
1998              5                7,014.1          28,606.0
6                4,872.3          33,478.4
1999              7                4,872.3          38,350.7
8                2,235.4          40,586.1
2000              9                2,235.4           42,821.5
10               2,107.0           44,928.5
2001             11                2,107.0           47,035.4
Total            47,035.4           47,035.4
M vTDPMSAR%SEMFIN.XLS



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
SUPERVISION STAFFING AND SCHEDULE
Approximate                         Activity - Major Focus                                   Skill Requirements                    Staff
Dates/Duration                                                                                                                      Weeks
3/96     2 weeks   Review of bid evaluation reports, project management arrangements,   Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D             8
consultant appointments, status of ITDP Action Plan implementation;  Management Specialist, RSI procurement and
formal project launch to raise private sector awareness        disbursement specialist
11/96    2 weeks   Rcxic% of progress of institution building including procurement  Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D               8
N,atus, disbursements, revicw of key performance indicators for each    Management Specialist, RSI procurement and
womponcnt and implementation of ITDP Action Plan               disbursement specialist
5/97     2 weeks   Rcvicw of progress of institution building including procurement  Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D               6
1tatuF, disbursements, revicw of key performance indicators for each    Management Specialist
component and iniplcmcntation of ITDP Action Plan
11/97    2 weeks   Review of progrcss of institution building including procurement  Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D               6
status, disbursements, review of key performance indicators for each    Management Specialist
component and implemcntation of ITDP Action Plan                                                                              oD
5/98    2 weeks   Review of progress of insitlution building including procurement  Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D                6
status, disbursements, review of kev perforiance indicators for each    Management Specialist
component and implementation of ITDP Action Plan
11/98    2 weeks  Mid-project review of all components against key performance     Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D                 8
indicators and progress in meeting the project's institution building  Management Specialist, Institutional
objectives and effectiveness of technology service delivery    Development Specialist
11/99    2 weeks   Review of all components against key performance indicators and  Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D                6
progress in iecting the project's institution building objectives and  Management Specialist
effectiveness of technology service delivery
11/00    2 weeks   Review of all components against key performance indicators and  Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D                6
progress in meeting the project's institution building objectives and  Management Specialist
effectiveness of technology scrv icc delivery
8/01     2 weeks  Implementation Completion Report (ICR)                           Task Manager, MSTQ Specialist, R&D                 12
Management Specialist, Institutional
Development Specialist



- 69 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
MSTQ NEEDS AND OPPORTUNITIES IN INDONESIA
1.  Indonesian institutions responsible for MSTQ have made considerable progress in the past four
years. An identification mission in 1990 found that the various organizations responsible for Indonesia's
industrial standards systems while understanding basic principles, did not fully appreciate the impact of
MSTQ on technology transfer, exports, and competitiveness in the global economy. Like a number of
other emerging industrial economies at that time, Indonesia was starting to transition from an inward
focused "classical" MSTQ system to one which is more in tune with international and regional
considerations. These stages of evolution are illustrated here. Today it is evident that Indonesia is
emerging from that transition phase and is posed to provide requisite MSTQ services in support of
industrial technology development.
EVOLUTION OF STANDARDS SYSTEMS
CLASSICAL SYSTEM          TRANSITIONAL              STRATEGIC SYSTEM
SYSTEM
Main focus on health, safety  Increasing awareness of the  Recognition of the
and consumer protection    impact of standards on  importance of standards in
competitiveness          the innovation process
Command and control       Deregulation, incentives and  Strategic positioning of
approach                  voluntary standards as   standards systems for
alternatives             market and technology
advantage
National governments and    Shift to intemational   Continued shift to
industries dominate       standards setting         international standards
industrial standards systems                        setting
2.  It is evident that both the private and public sectors recognize that quality is a critical factor in
international competitiveness.  There is a better appreciation of the interrelationships between
metrology/calibration and quality; laboratory accreditation and product certification; quality and
calibration, and laboratory accreditation; and the standards for testing, accrediting, and certifying
products and service. Many Indonesian companies, however, believe that improved quality entails
increased costs. Domestic markets are cost-sensitive and not quality conscious. Manufacturers do not
appreciate how improving quality can reduce costs by increasing yields, reducing rejects, and improving
productivity.



- 70 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
3.   Quality training services are limited to occasional short courses by the Indonesian Quality
Management Association, the Institute for Management Education and itinerant foreign trainers. A
reputed comprehensive quality management curriculum does not exist which would enable those assigned
to manage or supervise quality functions to acquire the broad range of quality training necessary for such
positions. A particularly challenging handicap is the lack of textbooks in Bahasa Indonesia on quality
management. Only one or two primers outlining ISO 9000 have been translated.
4.   As Indonesian MSTQ institutions transition to a more strategic MSTQ system with a global
outlook, efforts are underway to address the more significant impediments at the enterprise level and to
upgrade institutions to provide better support to the private sector. The results of recent World Bank,
German, and Japanese MSTQ assistance projects have been assimilated into well-grounded plans to
implement a comprehensive, cohesive national MSTQ system during Repelita VI. This five-year MSTQ
plan pragmatically addresses many needs and issues. As expected, considerable attention is focused on
equipping and upgrading calibration and testing laboratories, but the need for human resource
development, education, and effective management systems is also addressed. Specific tasks include
accrediting testing laboratories, and establishing a credible, internationally recognized calibration
network. Development of uniquely Indonesian standards is de-emphasized and resources are provided to
reorient standardization committees to adopt or adapt international standards. This is in tune with the
GATT/WTO accord on non-tariff  trade barriers which requires nations to give precedence to
international standards.
5.  ISO 9000 certification is also a major priority in Indonesia's MSTQ strategy. Less than fifty
Indonesian firms have been certified so far, and nearly all of those certifications took place abroad
because of the absence of an internationally recognized accreditation system, and the lack of qualified
assessors and consulting firms that could help firms implement ISO 9000 quality management systems.
Indonesia's strategy provides for implementation of a national system for registering lead assessors,
accrediting testing laboratories and improving the calibration of test equipment in Indonesia's public and
private labs.
6.   Within government, there are two main providers of MSTQ services to industry. The National
Metrology Center (KIM) is Indonesia's primary metrology center. One of its major tasks is to calibrate
the equipment of public and private sector testing laboratories throughout the country which is essential
for ensuring the accuracy of their testing equipment. Under the Industrial Technology Development
Project technical assistance would be provided for KIM--through a twinning arrangement with a leading
international metrology and calibration laboratory selected competitively using Bank guidelines--for
building its management and institutional capacity, including improvement of the technical proficiency of
KIM with the objective of gaining international recognition and accreditation, which is vital to
implementation of Indonesia's ISO 9000 certification program. The Ministry of Industry's Center for
Industrial Standards (PUSTAN) also has an important role to play in the implementation of the national
industrial standards system and ISO 9000 certification of industrial enterprises. Under the project,
PUSTAN would receive technical assistance to promote industry awareness of quality management
practices, including ISO 9000, and would initiate ISO 9000 certification of 40 SMIs as a pilot program.



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
7.   In addition to government providers of MSTQ services there is a small but growing number of
private sector providers in Indonesia.  As part of its MSTQ strategy GOI plans to improve the
participation of the private sector in the provision of all MSTQ support services, including ISO 90000
assessor and consulting services, and to have substantial private sector representation in the country's
main MSTQ policy making bodies and accreditation councils. The strategy calls for active involvement
of the private sector and competition between public and private service providers in the provision of
MSTQ services.
8.   Taking advantage of the present climate and building on previous technical assistance projects, the
MSTQ component of the ITDP will expedite action in priority areas identified in the Repelita VI Five-
Year Plan. Institutional upgrading will concentrate on improving managerial skills. Only a limited
amount of equipment will be procured, and that will be only where voids exist which would hinder
laboratory accreditation.
9.   The majority of the investment will be for private sector quality awareness and training with special
emphasis on small and medium enterprises. Outreach to SMIs will be accomplished through extension
agents working from eight MOI R&D centers. To foster quality awareness and commitment by top
management, the experiences of a major private sector organization such as India's Confederation of
Engineering Industries, or the Singapore Manufacturers Association will be transferred to the Indonesian
Chamber of Commerce and Industry. A comprehensive quality implementation program will be initiated
that will serve as a model for other sectors. Rather than build a quality training arm within the Ministry
of Industry, PUSTAN will team with regional technical universities to provide a comprehensive range of
quality courses under license from a world-class training provider. The courses will be tailored to the
specific needs of Indonesian industry.
10.  The pragmatic initiatives of the MSTQ component will enable Indonesia to put into a place time-
critical institutional capabilities--a national calibration system, and a cadre of accredited testing
laboratories--and will encourage the private provision of MSTQ support services which are required for
the successful implementation of its Repelita VI Five-Year MSTQ plan.
I1



- 72 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 7
The Market for Technology Services in Indonesia
I. Introduction
Developing a vibrant and sustainable market for technology services in Indonesia is the
primary objective of the Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme. To determine the potential for
growth in the domestic technology services market, this section first describes the current level of
demand for different types of technology services in Indonesia and explains which service providers are
now supplying that expertise. Then the Bank's considerable international experience in the provision of
technology services through cost sharing schemes is reviewed and key success factors in the design of
these programs are highlighted. Lastly, these experiences are used to design 'the matching grant scheme
for providing technology services to small and medium-sized industries (SMIs) in Indonesia. The market
mechanism embodied in the matching grant scheme would allow firms to determine the future growth and
direction of the market for technology services in Indonesia.
II. Technology Services Market in Indonesia
Demand
Presently, demand for technology services among small and medium-sized firms in Indonesia
is weak as is the capacity of the domestic consulting industry to supply those services. Firms are
reluctant to use technology service providers because of concerns about value for money, confidentiality,
and their ability to identify a suitable expert and use them effectively. Demand for technology support
services in Indonesia is concentrated in large and some medium-sized firms. For many medium and large
firms, this demand is supplied primarily through contractual technology agreements with foreign joint-
venture partners, licensing arrangements, domestic and international consulting engagements, and
international contacts.
Indonesian SMIs seek technical support primarily from university institutes, government
laboratories, and their equipment vendors.  The services SMIs most often request are process and
product technology, calibration and testing, and new equipment integration. Recently, there has been
growing interest among firms to undertake training in IS09000 quality systems, however, the cost is seen
as prohibitive and only a few Indonesian firms have yet received certification. The TSGs' (Technology
Services Groups) experience under the Industrial Restructuring Project (LN 3040-IND) has shown that
there is a growing awareness among Indonesian small and medium-sized firms of the benefits of
technology management services (production planning and control) and a corresponding increase in their
demand for these services. The table on the next page shows the range of technology services which are
delivered to Indonesian firms (mostly larger firms) and which organizations are providing those services.



- 73 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
Table a. Demand for Technology Services and Technology Service Providers in Indonesia
Type of    Demandfor                            Technology Service Providers
Technology   Technology    Ep4uA   t   Govmmut   Govm t            LocW        Fomgn 
Support      Support       Vemndors    Inst        LaborADris   Cwm*        Cwmbo&    Cmstime
P1J
Thul*gy        moderate         4           i                                     4            4
PrOK
Tedukki        moderate         4           4            4                        4            4
Stards          weak                        4                        4            4
TMi*9            weak           4           4            i
CcN1 &           weak
Plamix
Pbnti
Layt            weak                        4                                     4
Fi SavnX
weak                      4                        4            4
Pdlufr
PwwrVicn         weak444
Tednkff        very weak44
Quaiy Catd      strong
(1S09000)      interest
Cahbba     &
Trmg             high                       4            4
Includes local branch offices of international consulting firTns.
b/ Includes informal advice on process and product technology provided by other firns outside of Indonesia.
Source: World Bank mission interviews, February 1995.
Supply
Suppliers of technology and management services include: about 3000 private sector
consulting firms; countless full and part-time individual consultants; and over 30 government laboratories
and technical institutes. There is as yet no evaluative information on the quality of service providers in
each of these categories, but anecdotal information suggests that there are only a few domestic
technology consulting firms perceived as being of international quality.



- 74 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 7
Firms report that local university institutes or govemment laboratories, which are the largest
service providers to SMIs, generally produce adequate quality and their prices are affordable. However,
fundamental problems exist within government laboratories and institutes. Delivery times are too long;
non-pribumi firms are not provided services; firms lack commercial access to testing and design
equipment in government laboratories (although university laboratories offer better access); there is no
transparency on cost of technology services; firms lack information on the types of technology services
available; and firms are largely unaware of the quality of individual service providers. The ITDP project
will address these problems through restructuring of selected laboratories, strengthening their
management processes, and assisting laboratories to commercialize their services and establish incentive
programs to motivate them to contract out their services to the private sector.
Indonesia's strength in technical support services is in design engineering of metals based
manufacturing. This expertise is centered in Bandung where institutes, universities and private consulting
services specialize in design engineering. For example, the Polytechnic Mechanical and the Academy of
Machine and Industrial Technology (ATMI) are located in Bandung, and international and domestic
consultants have concentrated their engineering design offices in this area.
Tlhe domestic private consulting industry has significant weaknesses. In general, consulting
firms lack conceptual planning and management skills. Their management skills need to be developed at
three levels: (i) the managers of consulting firms need training in internal management processes and
practices; (ii) individual consultants need training in management of consulting engagements; and (iii)
individual consultants need training in business management skills and quality management which could
be developed into a service to be offered to client firms. In addition, local consultants report that joint
engagements with international consulting firms to serve small and medium-sized industry have been
unsuccessful in transferring technical skills to the local consultants. The discrepancy between the skill
level of domestic and international firms is such that absorptive capacity is minimal.
The cost of technology service providers varies. Consulting firms' rates are relatively transparent since
client firms are aware of the BAPPENAS posted rates for consulting services. Firms use these rates to
bargain contracts with consultants. As an example, a local consultant with ten years of consulting
experience could be employed for up to Rp. 7.5 million per month (US$ 3,500); a comparable expatriate
consultant could earn US$ 17,500 per month in fees and expenses. Government laboratories and
institutes which undertake calibration and testing are unaware of how to price their services with the
result that services are often provided below cost. Experience with the TSGs shows that short duration
periodic consultancies are affordable for and provide benefits to SMIs. For instance, twenty days of in-
house local consulting visits spread over a two to three month period cost about US$ 5,000 to $8,000
and can provide substantial changes to firms' operations.



- 75 -
ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 7
m. Past World Bank Experience with Cost Sharing Schemes
The matching grant scheme component proposed in this project is the latest in an evolving
series of cost sharing schemes which subsidize part of the cost of providing technical and management
advise to private sector firms. The fundamental tenet of these programs is that they are demand-led,
relying on the entrepreneur to define its needs (within the scope of the Program) and choose the service
provider which is best able to solve their technology problems. These initiatives evolved during the mid-
1980's, replacing the previous models of creating or subsidizing public sector agencies to provide
technology services to small- and medium-sized industries which, except for rare occasions, have proven
to be ineffective. Cost sharing programs have had a substantial impact on the competitiveness of
beneficiary firms. For example, under the Mauritius project (Ln. 3736-MAS) econormic benefits of 2 to I
are expected.
To date, eleven World Bank projects in South Asia, East Asia (including two in Indonesia),
Latin America and Africa have undertaken cost sharing schemes to enhance the quality and productivity
of domestic firms3. Originally, most of the cost sharing schemes were directed at exporting firms as part
of export development projects, and provided subsidies for productivity improvements, sales marketing,
and match making services, etc.. Increasingly, however, the focus is on productivity enhancement of
technology-based firms as part of a program to diffuse technology improvements to the firm-level,
regardless of whether the firm markets to the domestic or export markets. These programs have steadily
been upgraded to incorporate the lessons from earlier projects.
Key program success factors can be generalized across all of these projects.
a.    Recipient firms must have entrepreneurial drive, and government must take a hands off
approach. Firms want to drive the process. Direct government intervention would be viewed by
firms as business as usual. Successful programs leave it to the entrepreneurs to define their needs,
instead of offering a predetermined range of expertise.
b.    Firms must undertake a large share of the financial burden and take responsibility for managing
the consulting engagement. When firms contribute only a small share of the total cost of the
consultancy, the work is taken less seriously and management responsibilities fall upon the cost
sharing scheme.
3   For a more detailed review of cost sharing schemes in Bank Projects, see Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Mauritius, Technical
Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project (LN 3736-MAS), Annex 8.



- 76 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 7
c.    The subsidy element should be phased out during the life of the project. The growth and
sustainability of the market for technology services requires recipient and non-recipient firms to be
willing to pay full price for consulting services by the end of the project. This can only be
accomplished by phasing out the subsidy element over time and heavily marketing the resultant
benefits to non-recipient firms and industrial organizations during and at the completion of the
project.
d.    Early emphasis on program marketing and pipeline development is crucial to attracting firms to
the program and achieving targeted grant disbursement levels.
e.    Administrative/approval procedures must be efficient and transparent. Responsiveness to firms'
needs is key to attracting and developing firms' long-term interest in using technology service
providers. In particular, the payment procedures to reimburse firms or pay the matching grant
portion to service providers, who generally don't have excess cashflow, must be quick and non-
bureaucratic.
1V. Tailoring the Matching Grant Scheme
The design of the matching grant scheme is intended to generate successful consultancy
projects which demonstrate to non-recipient Indonesian SMIs the economic benefits of using technology
service providers, thereby developing a sustainable demand for technology services. Once the demand is
created and firms are willing to pay for the services, international experience has shown that both the
quality and quantity of service providers will develop to meet the demand. To develop the market for
technology services in Indonesia lessons learned from previous World Bank experience have been
incorporated and tailored to the realities of the Indonesian business environment.  Specifically, the
matching grant scheme was designed with the following elements:
a.    A private sector management contractor (MC) would have full responsibility for the day-to-day
management of the matching grant scheme.  The principal functions of the management
contractor would be the promotion and marketing of the scheme, the administration and
disbursement of matching grants, and assistance to Indonesian SMIs in sourcing and use of
technology expertise. Government's intervention occurs at the policy level of the matching grant
scheme in designing acceptance criteria, approval of projects over $50,000, and evaluation of MC
performance. Direct government contact with SMIs is as a public sector technology service
provider competing for firms' appointment as consultant. The benefits of using an autonomous
management contractor to facilitate the scheme are that: neither private nor public sector service
providers would be favored during the consultant selection process, no permanent institution is
created that requires government budgetary funding after project implementation is completed,
and the MC experience as a consultant is beneficial to training service providers and interacting
with private sector firms.



- 77-
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 7
b. In order to increase firms' appreciation of the full value of the consultants' services and to
encourage firms' responsibility for managing the consulting engagement, the SMIs are requiled to
pay 50% of the cost of the first consulting engagement, increasing their contribution to 75% and
100% upon subsequent engagements under the scheme. This is far higher than under previous
projects in Indonesia. Under the Industrial Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-rND) ) firms'
maximum contribution was 10% of consultancy costs, and under the Second Export Development
Project (Loan 2979-IND) firms' contributed only 25% towards the costs of the initial
consultancy.
c.    Marketing efforts to build an initial pipeline are the priority of the management contractor during
the initial project stages, and prior to hiring the MC, the Technical Supervisory Committee would
undertake this role, including marketing the scheme to industry associations which could identify
group consultancies that would benefit their member firms.
d.    Administrative processing should be rapid since grant approval on applications below US$ 50,000
is made only by the management contractor, and for the same size project approval of consultant
deliverables is made only by the firm and the management contractor.
e.    The flow of funds under the scheme would reduce the time it takes to pay service providers upon
satisfactory completion of the consultancy and reduce the scope for corruption.
f     Standardized technology services such as IS09000 training would be offered to groups of firms in
order to reduce the overall cost to individual firms.
g.    Preregistration of service providers would include a two to three day training in consulting skills.
Technology service providers would be allowed to receive funding from the matching grant
scheme (on a 50% cost sharing basis) in order to upgrade the quality of their consulting services.
Group seminars on management topics could also be funded through the matching grant scheme.
h.    The size of the matching grant scheme has been reduced to reflect Bank experience in discharging
contracts under similar cost sharing schemes and to prevent the cancellation of grant funds during
project implementation. US$ 6 million would be available for grants which would be matched
with US$ 6 million from recipient firms. Potentially, 3000 to 4000 SMIs4 in Agro-based and
Engineering Industries in Indonesia could be developed into an active market for technology
support services. However, the volume and nature of consultancy services required by these firms
is unknown at present. Estimates of the number of contracts during the matching grant scheme's
four-year operation are based on anticipated administrative capacity of the program officers to
discharge projects. It was assumed that the scheme could discharge 20 contracts (or about 3 per
field representative) per month of operation during the life of the program and that average
4   Based on data provided in the Indonesia: Industrial Sector Development Report and the Indonesia: Competition Policy: Industrial
Competitiveness and Effects of Deregulation.



- 78 -
ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
contract size would be US$ 12,000. This results in a contract volume of 1000 and a total
contract value of US$ 12 million.
i.    The matching grant scheme would be marketed to small and medium-sized firms which cannot
rely on foreign firms or domestic conglomerates to supply their technology needs. Large firms
and firms with operating agreements with foreign firms already have access to technical expertise
and financing, and cottage industry firms are probably too small to absorb their share of
consultancy costs (however, they would not be excluded from the matching grant scheme). GOI
has determined that the matching grant scheme would be marketed to Engineering Industries
(ISIC 38), e.g. metal working, electronics, machinery, and motorized vehicles, etc., and Agro-
based Industries (ISIC 31, 32, 33, 34, 35), e.g. food, leather, wood, paper and rubber, etc.
because these sectors are expected to be large sources of export growth with additional
technological development.
j.    Consultant price negotiations would be carried out competitively between the service providers
and SMIs. Payment from the Bank loan of the matching portion of the cost of services would be
based on Bappenas benchmark prices; additional fees and cost overruns would be borne by the
beneficiary.
k.    The Technology Service Matching Grant Scheme is the first program which encourages
competition among public and private service providers by marketing to and preregistering public
service providers. Past cost sharing schemes have focused solely on using private sector
consultants to meet the needs of firms.



- 79 -
ANNEX I I
Page 1 of 33
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES MATCHING GRANT PROGRAM
(DANA KEMITRAAN PENINGKATAN TEKNOLOGI INDUSTRI -- DAPATI)
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL



- 80 -
ANNEX I I
Page 2 of 33
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1: DAPATI OVERVIEW, OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE .............                                                                                          ......................... 82
OVERVIEW  ...........................................................................                                                                                              82
OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED RESULTS .......................................................................... 83
RATIONALE ...........................................................................                                                                                              84
CHAPTER 2: SCALE AND SCOPE OF DAPATI .........................................................................  86
COST  SHARING  GRANT  FUNDING  AND  TIMING                                      ......................................................................... 86
COST SHARING GRANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS .........................................................................                                                                  87
CHAPTER 3: DAPATI ESTABLISHMENT .........................................................................                                                                           89
ORGANIZATION  OF DAPATI                                            ......................................................................... 89
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES .........................................................................                                         .                                     89
The  DA  PA  TI Supervisory  Committee .........................................................................                                                              89
The .anagement Contractor .                                       ........................................................................ .                                  90
Service providers ...........................................................................                                                                                 92
Industries .........................................................................                           ..                                                             93
Government .........................................................................                            ..                                                            94
TRAINING PROGRAMS .......................................................................... 94
DANA  KEMITRAAN  PENINGKATAN  TEKNOLOGI INDUSTRI ......................................................................... 95
DATABASES .......                           ...................................................... .                                                            ........... 95
CHAPTER 4: CRITERIA FOR DAPATI PARTICIPATION ........................................................... 96
QUA .LIFICATION  OF SERVICE  PROVIDERS                                            ......................................................................... 96
QUALIFICATION  OF FIRMS  ......................................................................... 96
QUALIFYING  ACTIVITIES ......................................................................... 97
QUALIFYING  EXPENDITURES  ......................................................................... 98
CHAPTER 5: OPERATIONAL ASPECTS OF DAPATI .................................................................. 99
CHAPTER 6: SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS AND WORLD BANK REQUIREMENTS ...... 101
SUSTAINABILITY  OF RESULTS .....................   ....................................................     101
WORLD BANK REQUIREMENTS .................... 102



- 81 -
ANNEX I I
Page 3 of 33
Grant application approval ...................................................                                                 102
Internal reporting arrangements ...................................................                                            102
Public reporting ...................................................                                                           103
Monitoring and Evaluation ................................................... 103
Changes to the Manual ...................................................                                                      105
Accounting and auditing procedures ...................................................                                         105
General conditions ...................................................                                                         105
TABLES
TABLE 2-1: DAPATI MATCHING GRANT PORTION .88
TABLE 4-1: TERMS OF PAYMENT OF DAPATI GRANT FUNDS .98
TABLE 6-1: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR DAPATI PROGRAM .104
TABLE 6-2: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR MANAGEMENT CONTRACTOR .104
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: ORGANISATION OF DAPATI .107
APPENDIX B: DAPATI OPERATION FLOW CHART .108
APPENDIX C: DAPATI FUNDS FLOW .109



- 82 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 33
CHAPTER 1: DAPATI OVERVIEW, OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
OVERVIEW
1.1   The Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme forms a key component of the Industrial
Technology Development (ITD) Project, which is intended to facilitate the development,
dissemination and adoption of improved technologies by small and medium scale industries in
Indonesia. The Bahasa Indonesia name for the program is Dana Kemitraan Peningkatan Teknologi
Industri, and will be referred to by its acronym DAPATI in this manual.  Other related
components include measures to increase the quantity, quality and market orientation of R&D and
technology services provided by Government research institutes, and strengthening the system of
industrial metrology, standards, testing and quality assurance services.
1.2   The purpose of the DAPATI program is to provide direct financial support to small and medium
scale firms (SMIs) to upgrade their use of technology and as necessary to introduce related
management improvements. The central tenet of the Program is that it is demand led. Firms are
given support, principally in the form of a cost sharing grant, to obtain technology and business
services from specialist suppliers. These suppliers may be private consultants (local or
international, individual or part of a firm) or publicly sponsored technology services. The firm is
allowed to choose the service it requires (within the scope of the Program) and the supplier. In
addition to a cost sharing grant, support provided to the firm, if requested, includes assistance to
identify priority problems and opportunities which could benefit from obtaining external expertise,
help to make best use of the consultancy services (for example, preparation of detailed terms of
reference for the consultancy, including specification of costs and required output), and help to
identify suitable consultants.
1.3   DAPATI also provides support to improve the quality of consultancy available in Indonesia, and
to ensure firms receive assistance under the Program only from properly qualified consultants, in
two main ways:
*     the DAPATI Management Contractor will provide a short training course on consulting
skills for all consultants wanting to operate under the program, plus related registration of
specialist consultants
*     groups of service providers (consultants) may use DAPATI funds on a 50/50 cost sharing
basis, to conduct seminars on manufacturing technology and technology management
topics.



- 83 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 33
1.4   The types of consultancy which can be assisted by the Program cover improvements in:
*     product or process technologies, quality and reliability;
*     productivity;
*     safety and environmental impact; and
*     management control of technical operations.
A full list of qualifying activities is provided in paragraph 4.4.
1.5   DAPATI provides assistance for consultancy support only. It does not cover the cost of acquiring
plant and equipment, even if this is directly related to the consultancy.
OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED RESULTS
1.6 The primary objectives of DAPATI are to:
-     enhance the international competitiveness of SMIs in Indonesia
*     improve the access of SMIs to know how in the development and use of more advanced
technologies
*     improve firm level productivity, product quality, design and response times
*     encourage SMIs to grow into higher value added and export oriented production
*     to improve the capabilities of SMIs to act as suppliers to large firms in Indonesia.
1.7   In support of these primary objectives there are three secondary objectives specific to the services
available through DAPATI:



- 84 -
ANNEX 1 1
Page 6 of 33
*     to encourage SMIs to use extemal expertise where appropriate to help overcome
constraints to competitiveness
*     to improve linkages between firms and publicly and privately sponsored technology
services
*     to increase the quantity and quality of technical and related management consultancy
services available in Indonesia.
1.8   DAPATI will address these objectives by providing cost sharing grants to SMIs to help them
obtain technology services, and by providing training for the service providers. Expected results
include:
*     improvements in SMIs' productivity and product quality and reliability, and consequent
increases in revenues and profitability.
*     a substantial increase in the number and quality of technology support services available to
and affordable by SMIs in Indonesia.
i     a greater willingness of SMIs to use consulting services in future at full market costs. The
increase in both demand and supply beyond the period of the program therefore secures
long term benefits in the availability and use of support services.
RATIONALE
1.9   The rationale for DAPATI is as follows. SMIs frequently need assistance from experts outside the
firm to upgrade their use of technology and to achieve substantial benefits from this process.
However, most SMIs are also reluctant to use outsiders for a variety of reasons, including
concems about confidentiality, value for money, and their ability to identify a suitable expert and
to use them effectively.
1.10  A cost sharing grant can significantly reduce this initial barrier to using technology services.
Exposure to these services, properly conceived and delivered, increases SMIs willingness and
ability to use them in future.



- 85 -
ANNEX I 1
Page 7 of33
1.11   Public and private sector technology services often compete for the same SMI market. The
purpose of DAPATI is not to favor one sector or the other, but to give firms a choice of which
provider to use. Training for consultants, an integral part of DAPATI, will also be equally
available to public and private sector service providers.
1.12  Previous work by the Bank and others in Indonesia confirms that the above rationale is applicable
here. Most SMIs are not inclined to use outside specialists, but frequently they need assistance to
improve productivity and product quality, and better use of existing plant and equipment.
1.13  However, the consultancy sector is poorly developed in Indonesia. Private sector consultants
serve mainly large firms, and few have all the skills and experience appropriate for SMIs. In the
public sector, the technology service organizations are not demand driven, nor in most cases are
they used to providing consultancy services on commercial terms. Nevertheless, experience of the
Technical Service Groups, supported by a previous World Bank loan, indicates that there is
demand for technical services among SMIs provided the right approach is taken and quality
services are available. The Export Support Board Matching Grant Program also demonstrates the
usefulness of cost sharing grants to stimulate demand for services.



- 86 -
ANNEX 11
Page 8 of 33
CHAPTER 2: SCALE AND SCOPE OF DAPATI
COST SHARING GRANT FUNDING AND TIMING
2.1   The DAPATI program will run for five years or until the funds in the program have been
depleted. Prior to the start it is expected that some awareness marketing will be undertaken by
the DAPATI Supervisory Commnittee, industry associations and consulting associations.
However, it is likely that there will be a period of several weeks at the beginning of the contract
when the main focus will be on familiarization of DAPATI team, production of a marketing plan,
development of administrative systems, and preparation of the necessary documentation. The
build up of projects is therefore likely to be gradual.
2.2   The total funds available for DAPATI will be US$8.2 million of which: US$2.0m will be required
to cover administrative costs, US$6m will be available to support technology consulting services
to firms, and US$200,000 will be reserved for seminars for services providers. The amount
available assumes that a minimum of 600 consultancy contracts will be grant assisted over the
duration of the Program, at an average size of US$12,000 each and with an average of 50 percent
of the contract costs covered by grant (the remaining 50 percent to be paid by firms). It is
assumed that on average 20 consultancy projects will be supported each month of the Program.
The amount available for seminars assumes that eight seminars are conducted at a cost of
US$50,000 each, of which 50 percent will be paid by the grant.
2.3   Contract costs are likely to vary substantially depending on the length and complexity of the
consultancy required and whether local or international consultants are used. There will be a limit
of US$50,000 on the total grant aid that can be disbursed to projects for any one firm, but the
cost of individual contracts, provided they fall within this limit, will be subject to negotiation
between firm and consultant. The management contractor (the organization responsible for
administration of DAPATI) will only intervene if the charges proposed by the consultant appear
to be in excess of BAPPENAS rates for similar contracts. The proportion of total costs which are
covered by grant will also vary depending on the location of the firm and number of contracts
which the firm has had funded by DAPATI previously. A maximum of three projects will be
eligible for grant aid, and no more than one for each type of service.
2.4   It is assumed that expenditure on grant assistance will increase steadily during the five year
project. The number of firms taking up their first consultancy contracts under DAPATI should
increase quickly over the first year, then more gradually. Later in the Program a higher proportion
of projects is likely to be repeat contracts for firms, although because of the declining proportion



- 87 -
ANNEX I I
Page 9 of 33
of grant aid available for repeat contracts the total disbursement for repeats is likely to remain
below that on new contracts.
2.5   The main administrative costs will include:
*     salaries and related overheads of the Management Contractor
*     the cost of running DAPATI offices in Jakarta and regional centres, including rent, equipment,
vehicles, travel and communications, and administrative and secretarial support
*     promotion and marketing of DAPATI
*     mid term and final DAPATI reviews
-     annual financial audits of DAPATI.
2.6    Administrative costs will decline over the duration of the project for three main reasons: initial
setting up costs will add to base expenditure in the first year; the number of expatriate staff
involved in running DAPATI will reduce as the management contractor's local staff take over
management functions: and marketing costs will decline as the Program becomes well known and
consultants increasingly market the program direct to firms.
2.7   The key assumptions used to estimate administrative expenditures concern staffing, the number of
regional offices, the support provided by Government and KADIN, and the phasing of Program
implementation. It is assumed that there will be five offices in addition to Jakarta: in Bandung,
Medan, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang and Semarang. It is also assumed (for budgeting purposes)
that the Program Manager will be an expatriate for the first 18 months of the Program and
thereafter the locally-recruited Deputy Manager would take over as Program Manager.
COST SHARING GRANT TERMS AND CONDITIONS
2.8  The proportion of total contract costs covered by grant aid will vary as follows (see table 2.1):



- 88 -
ANNEX lI
Page 10 of 33
*  the highest level of grant aid will be 75 percent, payable for first projects undertaken outside
Java. For the second and third projects undertaken outside Java grant aid will be 50 percent
and 25 percent respectively of eligible expenditure. Within Java grant aid will be 50 percent of
the first project, 25 percent for the second, and zero thereafter
* the cash limit on total grant aid which can be paid for projects for one firm will be US$50,000.
2.9   The DAPATI is available to all SMIs (industries with annual sales less than Rp. 2 billion) in the
manufacturing sector and also to groups of consultants registered with DAPATI in order to
upgrade the quality of their services. Within this overall limitation, there will be no differences in
the proportion of grant aid payable by size of firm.
Table 2-1: DAPATI Matching Grant Portion
Area
Type of Support                 Java           [       Outside Java
Technology or management             (1) 50%                     (1) 75%
support                              (2) 25%                     (2) 50%
(3)  0%                    (3) 25%
Notes:  (1)  Firm's first contract supported by DAPATI
(2)  Firm's second contract supported by DAPATI
(3)  Firm's third contract supported by DAPATI
No financial support is available after the third contract, but firms may receive
assistance in locating and brokering technical services from DAPATI.
2.10  Also, no restrictions are proposed on access to DAPATI grants for firms in different
manufacturing sub-sectors nor are DAPATI grants to be allocated among industries. Grants are
approved on a first-come first-served basis to qualified firms.  Marketing of the Program,
however, would be directed at certain industries. Initially it is proposed that marketing should
target SMIs in the engineering and agro-based industries (ISIC 31, 32, 33, 35, 37 and 38).
Projects in any case should be aimed at development of exports and/or technology upgrading.
2.11   Further guidance on targeted marketing may be provided by the DAPATI Supervisory Committee
during the project. However, no further limitations on access to the Program are envisaged.



- 89 -
ANNEX 11
Page 11 of 33
CHAPTER 3: DAPATI ESTABLISHMENT
ORGANIZATION OF DAPATI
3.1   The organizational structure of DAPATI is shown in Appendix A. Management of the program is
the principle responsibility of the selected Management Contractor. The Contractor reports to the
DAPATI Supervisory Committee, comprising representatives of relevant public and private sector
organizations, which is responsible for overall direction of the Program on behalf of the
Government. Detailed roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved in the Program are
described below.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
3.2  The main parties in the Program are:
*    the DAPATI Supervisory Committee
*    the Management Contractor
*    Service Providers (consultants operating under the Program)
*    Industries in receipt of projects funded by DAPATI
*    the Government of Indonesia (represented by the DIP Project Manager--PIMPRO)
3.3   The roles and responsibilities of each of these parties are described below.
The DAPATI Supervisory Committee
3.4   The DAPATI Supervisory Committee will be responsible for overall supervision of the Program
on behalf of the Government. This includes guidance on interpretation of this Manual by the
Management Contractor, and on target sectors and activities for marketing purposes. The
Supervisory Committee will also be responsible for approval of all standard documentation (e.g.
the standard tripartite contract between the firm, the consultant, the PIMPRO and the
management contractor), the annual marketing plan for the Program, and of all individual
applications from firms for contracts in excess of US$25,000. Summary information on other
applications will be submitted after approval or rejection by the Management Contractor for
information and to inform subsequent policy guidance. The Committee will be responsible for



- 90 -
ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 33
monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the Program and the effectiveness of the Management
Contractor. The Committee will also take direct responsibility for initial marketing of the Program
prior to appointment of the Management Contractor, to help create a pipeline of projects before
formal commencement of the Program.
3.5   The DAPATI Supervisory Committee will meet monthly during the first year of the Program, and
at least quarterly thereafter. It will also meet on an ad hoc basis as necessary, particularly in order
to reach a decision on all large grant applications it receives, which should be determined within
four weeks of submitting all necessary documentation.
3.6   The DAPATI Supervisory Committee will comprise representatives of BAPPENAS, BPPT,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Industry, the Association of Consultants (e.g. INKINDO), small
and medium scale firms (e.g. KADIN), a private sector industrialist in a technology based industry
(e.g. an industrialist member of the National Research Council), and a venture capitalist.
3.7   The DAPATI Supervisory Committee will receive administrative support (e.g. in organizing and
recording meetings, and preparing periodic status reports for the project Steering Committee)
from the Ministry of Industry Project Management Implementation Unit (PMIU).
The Management Contractor
3.8   The Management Contractor will be responsible for administering the Program throughout its five
year duration (subject to annual performance reviews). Appendix B describes the operation of the
Program from the perspective of the contractor, firms and consultants.  Within this overall
responsibility specific tasks include:
*     setting up and managing DAPATI offices
*     setting up and managing databases on qualified service providers
*     promotion and marketing of DAPATI, including production of annual marketing plans for
approval by the DAPATI Supervisory Committee consultants on projects, business review
guidelines, registration forms for consultants, preparation of standard documentation,
including contracts with firms, the PIMPRO and grant application forms for firms,
marketing materials and post project monitoring forms



- 91 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 33
*     programs in consulting skills (two to three days in duration) will be arranged by the pre-
qualification and registration of consultants wishing to operate under the program. Training
Contractor as part of the pre-qualification procedure
*     undertaking a preliminary business review on request from firms, to help them diagnose
problems and identify priorities for external assistance
*     assistance as requested by firms to prepare terms of reference for a consultancy project, and
to identify suitable consultants (the firm should be given relevant information on at least
three pre-qualified consultants)
*     assistance as requested by service providers to prepare terms of reference for seminars for
service providers on manufacturing technology and technology management issues, and to
identify suitable experts for the seminars
*     submission to tme Bank the request for no objection for all contracts above US$50,000
*     approval of all grant applications of up to US$25,000 in value, subject to submission of
correct documentation and meeting approval criteria laid down by the DAPATI Supervisory
Committee
*     reviewing and signing the contractual agreement between the beneficiary and service
provider for the purpose of providing DAPATI grant funds to the service provider
*     monitoring implementation of consultancy projects to ensure compliance with the terms of
reference
*     timely disbursement of grant aid on receipt of proof of satisfactory completion of the
consultancy project (or the relevant stage in the case of staged payments)
*     undertaking a post project appraisal (after six  to 12 months) of the impact of the
consultancy project on the firm
*     submission of monthly reports to the DAPATI Supervisory Committee, summarizing grant
approvals and rejections, reporting on overall progress in each of the Regional Offices, and
including marketing activities and pipeline projects



- 92 -
ANNEX 11
Page 14 of 33
*     submission of six monthly progress reports (for contents see paragraph 6.9)
*     translation of contracts, terms of reference and DAPATI financial statements into English
from Bahasa Indonesia for the purposes of Program supervision.
3.9   The Management Contractor will be selected by competitive tender and should be familiar with
Indonesia, have (or recruit for this project) staff who can converse fluently in both English and
Bahasa Indonesia, have at least three years experience of operating as a management consultant,
be independent of influence from interested parties, and have a focus on technology and SMI
consulting. Ideally the contractor should also have experience of cost sharing grant or similar SMI
support programs operated elsewhere. The Contractor should have a separate legal identity,
preferably in the form of a corporation. The Contractor should be a non-bank institution and be
privately owned (i.e. greater than 50 percent private ownership).
Service providers
3.10  Service providers, or consultants, wishing to operate under the Program must first register with
the Management Contractor. Registration will involve a pre-qualification process, including a
short training program in consultancy skills.
3.11  Exemption from the training program can only be given by the DAPATI Management Contractor
or if a firm selects the consultant directly. In the case of direct selection, the Contractor may still
insist that the consultant undertakes the training program, either before starting on the project or
subsequently, if it is felt necessary.
3.12  In order to ensure that consultants operating under the Program are suitably qualified and
experienced, only individuals can register as DAPATI consultants. They may be freelance
consultants, employees of a consultancy firm, a non-profit foundation, or of publicly sponsored
organizations such as R&D Institutes, technical laboratories, universities and technical colleges.
Both local and foreign consultants may operate under the program.
3.13   Remuneration of consultants under the Program will be subject to agreement with the firm. The
Management Contractor will only intervene if the fee proposed by the consultant and agreed by
the firm is in excess of BAPPENAS recommended rates for a similar project and level of
consultancy experience. In this case grant aid will be paid in relation to the BAPPENAS rates
rather than the actual contracted fee for the project. This must be made clear to both the firm and
the consultant before commencement of the project.



- 93 -
ANNEX 11
Page 15 of33
3. 14  Consultants must act within the terms and spirit of the Program or they will be removed from the
register. Registration does not guarantee contracts under DAPATI. Consultants will be expected
to market their services directly to firms, and cannot expect assistance from the Management
Contractor except in awareness marketing, and as requested in negotiating reasonable terms and
conditions for consultancy projects, and to help resolve disputes between firrns and consultant.
Industries
3.15  Firms wishing to obtain grant aid for consultancy projects must apply to the DAPATI
Management Contractor and provide all necessary documentation, including:
a completed application form accompanied, if requested, by the Management Contractor,
the proof of financial viability (e.g. a bank statement, audited financial statements or
similar independent verification that the firm is able to pay for and benefit from the
consultancy project)
defined deliverables, which provide proof to the Management Contractor that the
consultancy project has been completed satisfactorily. Grant can only be paid after the
Contractor has received, and/or approved, the defined deliverables. Deliverables must be
defined in the terms of reference for the consultancy project and in the tripartite contract
between the firm, the consultant, the PIMPRO and the Management Contractor. Examples
of deliverables include a report recommending measures to improve productivity, a quality
manual, a revised plant layout, or installation and satisfactory operation of new equipment
proof of payment of the consultant's fees and expenses. Payment of DAPATI grant
money is only permissible after the SMI has fully paid their portion of contract costs. The
SMI's cost sharing portion can only be paid in cash, not in kind.
3.16  To enable the Management Contractor to undertake the role effectively, both firms and
consultants must allow reasonable access to the project by the Contractor. Firms should also co-
operate with the Management Contractor to allow collection of evidence of benefits derived from
the* consultancy project, within six to 12 months of its completion. As far as practicable,
measurable expected benefits should also be defined in the terms of reference and contract.



- 94 -
ANNEX I 1
Page 16 of 33
Government
3.17  Government's main responsibilities are:
to appoint and assign management responsibility for DAPATI to the DAPATI Supervisory
Committee and the Management Contractor
to appoint and assign a DIP Project Manager (PIMPRO) to review and sign the contracts
between beneficiary and service provider for the purposes of verifying availability of
project funds to cover the grant payment to the service provider and facilitate payment to
service provider of DAPATI grant portion
to commission from an independent source mid term and end of project evaluations of the
impact of DAPATI on firms and (separately) on local consultants
to monitor performance of the Management Contractor, and if necessary to terminate the
contract and re-appoint.
3.18  The Government is also responsible for setting up the overall ITD Project Implementation Unit.
TRAINING PROGRAMS
3.19  Training programs will be developed by the Management Contractor for consultants wishing to
register as consultancy assistants under the Program. The training programs will be two to three
days and will focus on consultancy rather than technical skills. All consultants will be expected to
participate in the training in order to register to offer services under the Program. Exemptions can
only be granted by the DAPATI Management Contractor, or in case a consultant with appropriate
qualifications and experience has already been selected by a firm to undertake a specific project.
In the latter case other formalities of registration (completion of the standard form) will still need
to be completed.
3.20 No charges should be made for the training. Costs will be covered by DAPATI.



- 95 -
ANNEX 11
Page 17 of 33
DANA KEMITRAAN PENINGKATAN TEKNOLOGI INDUSTRI
3.21   The DAPATI forms part of the ITD Project. The flow of funds into DAPATI is therefore subject
to the overall financial management of the ITD project. A summary of the process is provided in
Appendix C.
3.22  Funds for DAPATI will reside in the ITD Project Special Account established by the Ministry of
Finance. The government's standard reimbursement procedure will be followed in paying the
matching grant portion to the service providers upon completion of consultancy.  It is the
Management Contractor's responsibility to inform the implementing agency on an annual basis the
forecast level of disbursements.
3.23  Payment of grant aid will be made from the Special Account directly to the bank of the service
provider upon receipt of an invoice for the approved amount and proof of satisfactory completion
of the project (or stage, in the case of staged payments).
DATABASES
3.24  The Management Contractor will be responsible for establishment and maintenance of a database
of consultants. With the assistance of BPPT and Ministry of Industry, the Contractor will also
obtain access to national and international databases on relevant technologies and technical
support services. Access to information from these databases will be marketed to firms as a
feature of DAPATI. The Management Contractor should not be expected to pay to use databases
already accessed or maintained by BPPT or MOI.



- 96-
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 33
CHAPTER 4: CRITERIA FOR DAPATI PARTICIPATION
QUALIFICATION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
4.1   Service providers, which are individual consultants, consulting firms, or public sector service
providers, must register as individuals and must meet pre-determined criteria regarding
qualifications and experience. The public service providers (institutes, universities, laboratories,
etc.) will register their staff who will directly be in charge of engagements with the private sector
firm. A standard form for application to register as a consultant will be provided by the
Management Contractor.
4.2   Firms may use only registered consultants. In case a firm wants to use a consultant not registered
on the Program, the consultant must first provide the Management Contractor with sufficient
information for them to assess capability and approve registration. Consultants registered in this
way need not undertake the standard training program, provided their performance on the
contracted project is satisfactory or unless the Management Contractor considei-s it essential to
improve the consultants capability prior to starting the project. There are two reasons for this
exemption: first, it encourages consultants to market DAPATI direct to firms; second, the
Program is intended to be demand led - if firms want to use a particular consultant the Program
should not cause delays provided the Contractor is satisfied the consultant can undertake the
proposed project.
QUALIFICATION OF FIRMS
4.3    To qualify for grant aid under the Program firms must be:
privately owned: i.e. with over 50 percent of the equity privately owned
small or medium scale, as defined by annual sales of less than two billion rupiah
*     manufacturers or providers of support services to manufacturers, particularly those
industries categorized under ISIC code 31, 32, 33, 35, 37 and 38, or other manufacturers
in export or technology based industries, or



- 97-
ANNEX l1
Page 19 of 33
*     consultants specializing in provision of technology services
*     based in Indonesia. Projects must also be located in Indonesia.
QUALIFYING ACTIVITIES
4.4   Qualifying activities are mainly in plant/ shop floor technical services including:
*     identification and application of improved process or product technologies
*     assistance to improve manufacturing process technology
*     assistance to improve product quality and reliability, and where appropriate to adopt
recognized standards
*     improvement to the efficiency and safety of plant layout, e.g., flow of material, material
handling systems
*     assistance for identification and application of energy saving, pollution prevention and
recycling technologies
*     testing and calibration services
*     preventative maintenance operations
production control and quality management, e.g., work measurement, line-balancing,
production scheduling, inventory control, total quality management
*     training of shop floor employees in above-mentioned topics



- 98 -
ANNEX 1 I
Page 20 of33
training seminars for consultants to improve their capabilities to deliver the above services
to SMIs, e.g., flexible manufacturing, production engineering
4.5   Consultancy projects are intended to provide specialist assistance to address specific problems.
Long term (e.g. over three months) secondment of staff to firms is not therefore regarded as a
qualifying activity.
QUALIFYING EXPENDITURES
4.6   Qualifying expenditures include all fees and expenses necessarily incurred in undertaking the
defined consultancy project and for which reimbursement is specifically provided in the contract
between the firm, the consultant, the PIMPRO and the Management Contractor. Expenses may be
included in a fixed fee agreement or charged separately, and on submission of receipts for all
significant expenditures (long distance travel, hotels, etc.). Payment from the Bank loan of the
matching portion of the cost of services would be based on BAPPENAS benchmark prices;
additional fees and cost overruns would be borne by the beneficiary.
4.7   No grant aid can be provided for expenditure on equipment (even if the equipment is necessary to
undertake the project), staff salaries or recurrent expenditure incurred by the consultant (e.g. on
office costs).
Grant can only be paid on proof of satisfactory completion of the consultancy project or
appropriate portion of the consultancy project, which will be required in all cases. Terms of
payment is shown in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4-1: Terms of Payment of DAPATI Grant Funds
Java                  Outside Java
Deliverable             SMI        DAPATI         SMI        DAPATI
Work plan                  10%                     10%
Interim Report               40%                     15%          25%
Final Report                             50%                     50%



- 99 -
ANNEX 11
Page 21 of 33
CHAPTER 5: OPERATIONAL ASPECTS OF DAPATI
5.1    Appendix B describes the main steps in operation of DAPATI. From the perspective of the firm
these are:
*     Initial informal approach to the Management Contractor, to identify possibilities, issues,
etc.
*     Business diagnosis, provided free of charge by the Management Contractor at the request
of the firm
*     Identification and selection of suitable consultant(s), with the assistance of the
Management Contractor if requested
*     Preparation of terms of reference
Formal application and approval
Issuance of a contract between the firm, the consultant, the PIMPRO, and the
Management Contractor, specifying inputs, outputs (including defined deliverables), fees
and expenses, work program and payment schedule.
Consultancy services, including staged payments for intermediate outputs if appropriate
and related applications for payment of grant
*  .  Completion of consultancy services, including presentation by the consultant of the
defined deliverable(s)
*     Application for payment of grant
*     Cross check by Management Contractor of receipt by firm of defined deliverables and
firm's payment of consultant as specified



- loo-
ANNEX I 1
Page 22 of 33
*     Disbursement of grant
*     Monitoring of impact by Management Contractor.
5.2   Not all these stages are essential in every project: for example, firms may select the consultant
themselves and there may be no staged payments for smaller or short duration projects.
However, the above sequence indicates the steps through which projects proceed from conception
to completion and evaluation.



- 101 -
ANNEX I 1
Page 23 of 33
CHAPTER 6: SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS AND WORLD BANK REQUIREMENTS
SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
6.1   Sustainability of results can be achieved in two main ways: the long term benefits to firms of
specific projects; and an increase in the willingness of firms to use specialist experts at full market
rates after completion of DAPATI, combined with an improvement in the quality and quantity of
that expertise.
6.2   The long term impact of specific projects will be measured as part of the Program in two ways:
monitoring of impact after six to 12 months, undertaken by the Management Contractor as part of
the contract on the proiect, and the mid term and end of Program evaluations by Government of
overall impacts.
6.3   Impacts will be measured primarily in relation to the objectives of each project, but also in more
general terms, including increased sales, export performance of participating firms, improved
productivity, and improved links between large firms in Indonesia and SMls due to improvements
in the latter's product quality and delivery performance.
6.4   The willingness of firms to use outside experts at full market rates after completion of DAPATI
depends on the success of DAPATI in stimulating development of an active market, rather than an
institutional framework, for technology support services. Development of the market is to be
supported by stimulating demand through the cost sharing grant and simultaneously improving the
quantity and quality of supply through registration and training of consultants. The Management
Contractor will be appointed for a fixed five year term (with annual review) to administer the
Program. The Contractor delivers no support services itself, nor is it intended to create a
permanent institution to continue beyond the five year program.
6.5   Beneficiary firms will be expected to pay full market rates for consultancy services after
completion of DAPATI. Experience of similar programs elsewhere suggests that the
demonstration effect of successful projects, together with the declining level of subsidy available
through DAPATI, should be sufficient to persuade firms to pay market rates subsequently.



- 102-
ANNEX 11
Page 24 of 33
WORLD BANK REQUIREMENTS
Grant application approval
6.6   The first five grant applications submitted must be reviewed and approved by the World Bank to
ensure proper procedures are being followed. Thereafter, contracts in excess of US$50,000 in
value must be approved by the World Bank.
Internal reporting arrangements
6.7   A hierarchy of authority will be established, with reporting requirements defined at each level - the
firm, the Management Contractor, the Executing Agency (acting on behalf of the Government),
DAPATI Supervisory Committee, the ITD Project Steering Committee and the World Bank.
6.8    At the level of the firm, it will be necessary to produce proof of payment and of receipt of defined
deliverables before the grant proportion of the total fee can be paid to the consultant. Details of
projects a:e solely a matLer betwecn the firm, the consultant and the Contractor. It is essential that
business confidences are maintained and no disclosures are made to other parties, including the
DAPATI Supervisory Committee, without the written permission of the firm. The firm will be the
sole owner of all intellectual property arising from projects funded under DAPATI.
6.9   At the next level in the hierarchy, the Management Contractor will be required to report to
DAPATI Supervisory Committee as follows:
on a monthly basis, summarizing the characteristics of applications and approvals, and
reporting on overall progress
*     six monthly, on a more formal basis, providing information on: the number and size
(money value and man days of consultancy) of approvals by region, sector and size of
firm; rejections, listed by region, sector and reason for rejection; projects completed and in
the pipeline; impacts of completed projects (where assessments have been completed);
grant payments, including average and range of time taken to disburse money; marketing
activities undertaken and planned; operating costs vs. budget, by item; and other matters
concerning progress with the Program in each regional center and overall.
6.10  The six monthly reporting schedule will fit into the planned schedule of annual ITD Project
implementation reviews.



- 103 -
ANNEX I I
Page 25 of 33
6.11  The Management Contractor will take instructions only from  the DAPATI Supervisory
Committee. No other organization may invoke powers directly over the Program or the
Contractor.
6.12  The DAPATI Supervisory Committee will have overall responsibility for DAPATI, and will
report six monthly to the Executing Agency on progress. These reports will be based on the
Management Contractor's monitoring reports, with additional information, including minutes of
Committee meetings, and commentary provided by the Committee as they see fit. The Committee
should report on any concerns expressed by the Management Contractor in operating the
program, particularly in relation to prompt disbursement of grant moneys and the role of
Government Departments (e.g. in providing temporary work permits to foreign consultants), and
action taken to address these concerns.
6.13  The Executing Agency will pass on to the Bank the monitoring reports prepared by the
Management Contractor and DAPATI Supervisory Committee, as part of the overall monitoring
and evaluation of the ITD Project. Bank Missions will review progress with the Executing
Agency, DAPATI Supervisory Committee and the Management Contractor at regular intervals
during the Project.
Public reporting
6.14  In addition to the above reporting arrangements which are internal to the ITD Project, DAPATI
Supervisory Committee will make available to the press every six months a summary of progress
on DAPATI, including the number, value and regional distribution of projects funded under the
Program, and information on impacts where available. No information on individual firms or
consultants, or on specific projects, will be divulged to the press wiThout the express permission
of the firm.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.15  Mid term and final evaluations of DAPATI will be commissioned by the Executing Agency from
independent sources. The Program will be evaluated in relation to its objectives and impacts on
SMIs and local technology consultancy capabilities. The evaluation should identify successes and
failures of the Program and recommend improvements which could be made to similar initiatives
in future. The evaluation studies will be funded by the ITD Project. It is expected that the Pi oject
would achieve the following performance targets by the mid-term and final evaluations:



- 104 -
ANNEX I 1
Page 26 of 33
Table 6-1: Performance Indicators for DAPATI Program
Performance Indicator          Target
Management contract start date      April 96
Launch seminars completed           June 96
First grant approval                July 96
First grant disbursement           October 96
Mid-term evaluation completed     November 98
Final evaluation completed        January 2001
%  individual contracts achieving     50%
expected  results  by  mid-term
review
6.16  The performance of DAPATI Management Contractor will be subject to annual review. If
performance is regarded as unsatisfactory by the DAPATI Supervisory Committee, Government
of Indonesia and the Bank, the management contract can be terminated with two month's notice
and a new Contractor appointed by the Executing Agency by competitive tender. It is expected
that the Management Contractor would meet the following performance targets over the life of
the Program:
Table-6-2: Performance Indicators for Management Contractor
Performance Indicator    Year I I Year 2 | Year 3 | Year 4    Year 5
Min. No. Contracts Signed      20        100      300       500       600
% of Grant Fund Disbursed      5%       20%       50%       75%      90%



- 105 -
ANNEX I I
Page 27 of 33
Changes to the Manual
6.18  This manual will be reviewed annually, or more frequently if desired by the Bank and Executing
Agency, and may be modified as required in order to achieve the objectives of the Program,
subject to the prior approval of both parties.
6.19  The purpose of the Manual is to provide clear guidelines on how DAPATI should be
implemented. It seeks to balance three main concerns:
the need to achieve Program objectives
simplicity, transparency and efficiency in operating the Program
a desire to minimize possibilities for misinterpretation of the Program or misuse of grant
moneys and related assistance.
Accounting and auditing procedures
6.20  The Executing Agency will enter into a contract with the Management Contractor which gives it
the authority to facilitate processing of payment from govemment on behalf of the services
providers. Management Contractor will clear service providers invoice with the DIP Project
Manager, who will provide authorization of approval for payment to the KPKN. Upon approval
of documentation, KPKN will issue a payment authorization to Bank Indonesia to wire transfer
funds from the Project Special Account to the service provider's bank.
6.21   Annual general statements for DAPATI will be prepared and then audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Auditors reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
end date of the period to which they relate.
General conditions
6.22  Grants shall be made on terms whereby DAPATI Management Contractor shall obtain, by written
contract with the firm and the consultant, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and
the Government of Indonesia, including:



- 106-
ANNEX 11
Page 28 of 33
(a)   requirements on both the firm and the consultant to undertake the agreed project with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records
(b)    a requirement that the services to be financed by grant shall (i) be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken of their complexity and quality and the experience of
the parties rendering them, and (ii) be used exclusively to carry out the agreed qualifying
activities
(c)    a requirement on the firm to provide all such information as the Government of Indonesia
or the Bank shall reasonably request (without breaching any agreements on confidentiality)
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the firm and to the benefits to be derived from the qualifying activity
(d)   to suspend or terminate the rights of the firm to obtain grant aid for a project upon failure
of the said firm to perform its obligations under its contract with the Management
Contractor. Similarly, to remove the consultant from the register of approved senrice
providers should the consultant faii meet the terms and conditions of the contract.



- 107-
ANNEX 11
Page 29 of 33
APPENDIX A:
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DAPATI ORGANISATIONAL CHART
[ ~ITDPi
|Steering Committee 
|ITDP|
| ~DAP ATI
Supervisory Committee
Ministry of Industry
l          ~~PMIU
DAPATI
Management Contractor
l m                            I SevclPoie



APPENDIX B:
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DAPATI OPERATIONAL FLOW
STAGE OF PROGRAM             SMis                                  DAPATI Management Contractor                               Service Providers
\, rAdvertls4 DAPATI
MARKETING            application to DAPATI    _                                    ___
Criteria for _______________Develop training program            pre-qualification
selcctionaof fiors             for local service providers                l
s   of                                                            *
DIAGNOSIS                             business diagnosis               - develop diagnostic and  .       compile consultants
databage tools                    reg ter
TOR for consthtancy projects
X
SELECTION
Invite proposals
shortlist of appropriate service providers  propose work
I                                                  I                       program and fee
select service provider                        agree fee and prepare contract
and ag rec fee                                          I
sign ce ntract                                    sign contract      PIMPRO signs contract            sign cl#ntract
DELIVERY              firm pays agreed fee                              monitoring of project                                undertake project
to service provider                             and defined deliverables
proof of Iayment
and complet on of project
DAPATI gran funds released           *  fee paid               
EVALUATION                     _                                                                                                                   O
* r           SMls                    review impact of program on   -     local service providers



Appendix C
Dapati Grant Flow of Funds
(12) Reimbursement of Special Account
...................................................................................................
... WORLD BANK. .                       l   DITJEN  ......                                      SPECIAL
(I  ) Withdrawal  ANGGARAN/KPKN (9) SPM/Payment   ACCOUNT
application                                   Authorization
USS50.000
TECHNICAL                                                              (8) SPP/DIP                                   (1o) Funds Transfer
SUPERVISORY                                                              Authorization
COMMITTEE
(TSC)
USS25,000
(1) Management Contract (PIMPRO & MC)                                                                              %o
................................................
.   :         ~~~~(3) Consultancy Contract Validation..
Management              ............ om w............R..
Contractor (MC)                           ..... MOI - PIMPRO                                        SERVICE PROVIDER'S
(7) Invoice,Berita Acara,                           .BANK
(5)       . ..Dcliverabic, Proof of Payment
(2) Consultancy/*--.
Contract/*-
(SMI-MC-SP)          /       (4) 50% invoice*..
SERVICE                                                                  
SMI             .............................PROVIDERR                                                                                                     
(SP)                                                                                              F
(5) SO/.payment                                                                                                                  O



- 110-
ANNEX 1 1
Page 32 of 33
DAPATI Flow of Funds and Approvals (Appendix C continued)
1. A long-term consultancy contract is signed between MOI as the Executing Agency (represented
by MOI PIMPRO) and the Management Contractor (MC) authorizing MC to manage day-to-
day operations of DAPATI.
2. A consultancy contract is signed for each individual project by the SMI (Small Medium Scale
Industries), Service Provider, and the Management Contract detailing services to be provided,
budget for services and grant amount to be paid. The contract is signed at MC office, located
nearest to the SMI.
3. The contract is validated through signature of the MOI PIMPRO (DIP Project Manager).
PIMPRO is positioned at Jakarta.
4. The Service Provider commences the consultancy, and upon completion of the agreed
deliverable (or interim deliverable) supplies an invoice, for up to 75 percent of total contract
value, and the deliverable to the SMI.
5  If MC and SMI approve the deliverable (or interim deliverable), the SMI remits a check to the
Service Provider for the appropriate percent of total contract value (based on the payment
scheme negotiated in the consultancy contract).
6. Upon full completion of consultancy, Service Provider submits final deliverable, invoice, and
other documents nominated as "a complete document" for the remaining amount of originally
agreed contract value to the MC. MC and SMI evaluate the quality of the deliverable (Note:
for consultancies valued at > US$25.000, DAPATI Technical Supervisory Committee must also
evaluate the quality of the deliverable.)
7. If deliverable approved, then MC remits four items to the PIMPRO: (i) Service Provider's
invoice for appropriate percent of cost of service to be paid from the Bank loan; (ii)
verification of consultancy completion (Berita Acara); (iii) proof that SMI has paid their portion
of consultancy costs, and (iv) deliverable.
8. PIMPRO reviews the documents; if approved, the PIMPRO issues an SPP (authorization to use
DIP funds) to KPKN Jakarta (if costs are local) or to DG Budget (if costs are foreign).
9. KPKN Jakarta/DG Budget reviews the SPP, if approved, KPKN Jakarta/DG Budget issues an
SPM (payment authorization) to Bank Indonesia (BI) to wire transfer funds to the Service
Provider's Bank in the amount of the invoire.
10. KPKN Jakarta periodically submits a stack of SPMs (Payment Authorizations) to DG Budget;
DG Budget submits a Withdrawal Application with appropriate documentation to the World
Bank.



-  l l -
ANNEX I I
Page 33 of 33
11. World Bank reimburses Special Account in BI.
Note:
1) The process from point 6 (six) to point 9 (nine) schedule will not be more than 2 (two) weeks.
2) "Complete documents" for withdrawals in point 7 (seven) should be met with requirement
mentioned I Keppres.:16/1994 and Keppres.: 24/1995.



- 112-
ANNEX 12
Pa2e 1 of 6
ACTION PLAN
Industrial Technology Development Proiect
Commercialization of Public Technology Support Institutions
1.  In order to help private industry in Indonesia improve its international
competitiveness, Government is committed to improving the delivery of public
technology support services to industrial firms, i.e., research and development,
improvement of productivity, efficiency, and innovation, and testing and quality
upgrading services. This would be done by moving Indonesia's Public Technology
Support Institutions (PTSIs) closer to meeting the needs of private industry,
particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. Ultimately, the Government intends
to develop them into independent legal entities, but still in the frame work of their
mission as agent of technology development.
2.   To realize these objectives, the Government intends to implement the
following actions:
- give the PTSIs necessary incentives to become more demand driven and
commercially oriented and establish targets for them to become increasingly
self-financing;
- reduce Government controls to encourage the institutions to become more
agile in responding to the technological needs of industrial firms, while also
increasing the institutions' accountability for results;
- implement internal management reforms at the institutions to ensure that they
become more professionally managed and results oriented;
- encourage private provision of technology support services and competition
between, and among, public and private technology services providers; and
- encourage provision of technology support services and incentives to private
industries.
3.   A number of initiatives have been taken in recent years to  improve the
incentives for PTSIs, even though further initiatives are necessary for PTSIs to
become more commercial. BPPT has recently implemented a new income- sharing
scheme that allows its working units and laboratories to share earning from industry.
The charter of LIPI noW also provide for similar income-sharing schemes and
permits its working units and laboratories to accumulate industrial earnings from



- 113 -
ANNEX 12
Pa2e 2 of 6
one year to the next to build cash reserves for improvement of their facilities and
equipment. The MOI institutes have been permitted since 1990 to apply revenues
from industrial sources to cover some of the operating costs of the institutes.
4.   This letter further elaborates on the measures which the Government intends
to undertake to implement the above actions.
5.   Increased self-financin2. One of the key measures for commercializing the
PTSIs will be to promote and increase their funding from industrial sources and
gradually phase out their financial support from the Government budget. In this
regard, income generation targets have been established for all PTSIs at BPPT,
LIPI, and MOI.
6.   At BPPT the share of earning from non-governmental sources through the
sale of technology and technology services in total BPPT expenditure is targeted to
increase from less than 5 percent today to 25 percent by the year 2000. LIPI's
self-financing ratio is expected to rise from 15 percent today to 75 percent by the
year 2000. Likew,se for the MOI R&D Institutes such self-financing targets have
been established. For example, the R&D Institute for the Chemicals Industry
(BBIK) and the Semarang Industrial Institute (BISm) are expected to increase their
self- financing ratios from 18 percent and 48 percent, respectively in 1994, to 48
percent and 75 percent respectively by the year 2000 (see attachment).
7.   Improvement Incentives and Flexibility in Earning Usaze. It is recognized
that incentives for management and staff of PTSIs need to be improved to provide
greater stimulus for commercialization of their operations. The main measures to be
pursued would be to permit the institutes to
a. retain earnings from industrial contracts
b. use those earning flexibly, including for incentives for researchers and staff of
PTSIs, for covering expenses to develop business and deliver services to
industry, and for building cash reserves to improve the facilities and equipment of
the institutes.
c. accumulate balance from one fiscal year to the next for securing sustainability
of technology support services to industry.
8.   Reformin! Internal Management. In addition, it is necessary to implement
improvements in the internal management of PTSIs.
- First, the MOI institutes will establish advisory boards--including
representation from the private sector and user industry associations--which will
meet periodically to review the work of the PTSIs, and advise them on the ways



- 114 -
ANNEX 12
Paye 3 of 6
and means to strengthen the links between the institutes and private industry. At
MOI institutes, further organizational restructuring will be undertaken to bring
their research groups and development groups together.
-  Second, all MOI institutes are required to prepare business plans that should
be targeted to meet the needs of industry. Those plans would become the main
instruments for monitoring the operations of the institutes against annual
performance targets. The plans would identify the major market for the institutes'
technology  services,  the competitive advantage of the institutes, their
expectations on penetration of those markets, and their related investment
requirements in hardware and human resource development. The plans would
need to clearly support the orientation of institutes toward activities which would
realize increasing self-financing of their activities. In addition, this model
approach is expected to be implemented by other PTSIs regarding their missions.
- Third, BPPT, LIPI, and two of MOI's institutes. BBIK and the BISm--will
implement modern business development and technology management practices
and related management information system to:
a.   establish key functions that are critical to generating revenue through
commercial research and technology licensing, including technology
marketing, business development, and contract and intellectual property
management;
b    strengthen internal management system to support contract research,
including modern budgeting, costing, and technology pricing systems, project
management, and human resources management systems, and
c.   provide management and staff training to facilitate the transition to
industry-oriented technology service organizations.
- Fourth, to help BPPT, LIPI and the MOI institutes design and implement
these improvements in their internal management system, the Government will
seek technical assistance through collaboration with foreign organization which
have a demonstrated capability to manage successful contract research
organizations. The local institutes will engage in long-term partnership (twinning
arrangements) with  such qualified foreign organizations. To synergize the
strengths of various Indonesian PTSIs, twinning among PTSIs belonging to
different agencies also will be undertaken. As a pilot, P3KT (LIPI) and BBIK
(MOI) will seek greater cooperation to provide more effective technology
services to the Indonesian chemical industry.



- 115 -
ANNEX 12
Pate 4 of 6
9.  Encouraging Comnetitive Provision of Technolo2y Support Services. The
government will strongly encourage competitive provision of technology support
services between public and private technology service providers. Already there is
substantial competition in the provision Qf services to industry for improving
product quality, reliability and delivery, and for improving product designs and
productivity, and the Government will seek to further facilitate entry of new
qualified private service providers. This will be further encouraged through the
matching grant scheme of the proposed Technology Services Matching Grant
Scheme. As part of the arrangements for implementing the DAPATI, the training
would be available to registered consultants for improving their planning,
management and delivery of consulting services. Also, the Government will seek to
provide for a more equitable competition environment among private and public
technology service providers by adjusting the fees of PTSIs charged to their clients
to reflect the true cost of services and to avoid cross-subsidies between PTSIs and
public enterprises.
10. To provide support for the implementation of the above action plan for
commercializing the operations of the PTSIs, the Government seeks support from
the World Bank in the preparation and implementation of an Industrial Technology
Development Project (ITDP). On the basis of the above actions and the support
provided under the project, the Government of Indonesia aims to considerably
strengthen the contribution of the PTSIs and private providers of technology
support services toward improved competitiveness of industry.
11. In addition, BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance, State Minister for
Technological Research, and other related Government Agencies will provide
necessary legal aspects for the implementation of this action plan.



-116 -
ANNEX 12
Paue 5 of 6
Attachment I
Self-Financin2 Tar2ets of thc PTSIs
ORGANIZATION        94/95      95/96      96/97       97/98      98/99       99/20      00/01
BPPT (Overall)           5          5         5.5        7.5         15          20         25
LIPI (Overall)          10         10         I1         13.5        15          20         25
P3KT (LIPI)      38         38         40         44          49          56
BBIK (MOI)       17         20         31         37          43          48
BISm (MOI)       48        53          63         66         70          75
These specific institutes are being supported through the ITDP program.
Please note that in the case of P3KT, BBIK and BISm, these self-financing ratios have been defined as
ratio of "income" to "expenditure". The "expenditure" includes DIP plus DIK plus the overhead costs
(JPT) excluding LIPI non-industrial service (botanical gardens).



-117-
ANNEX 12
Pate 6 of 6
Attachment 2
PTSIs under Ministrv of Industry OualifvinL for the Swadana Plus Status
(based on 20% self-financing for two consecutive years)
INSTITUTE                  % Self-       % Self-       % Self-        % Self-
Financing in  Financing in   Financing in   Financing in
91/92        92/93          93/94          94/95
01  IRD Material & Technical            62            60            71             71
Product Industry (B4T)
02  IRD Semarang                        39            52            36             46
03  IRD Metal &. Macidnery              22            27            43             45
Industry
04  IRD Textilc Industry                21            25            22             26
05  IRD Ceramic Industry                 7             9             16             18
06  IRD Leather & Allied Industry       13            23            25              26
07  IRD Agrobased Industry              20            19            23              32
08  IRD Pulp & Paper Industrv           12            10            20              24
09  IRD Chcmicals Industry               7             9             16             18
10  IRD Batik & Handicraft               1            15            12             16






I















IMAGING
,pcrt NI: 14-!DC  IN U
Tyrpo-: 'A F



