Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23742
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IThXT A
lNJO t*i
1 C. A fT
L'.JtUN
Al rrr   . a - -  --r -np  T ,ln I W -l   TjVLT
IIN T1lr. P"V1'JUi'I 'JLr Ualb30.j 1VilL~1'JP
IlN'DOINESIA
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 26, 2002
Private Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CTUTRRENCY EQTTTVATLENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit =  Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
D-I.1 AA =  UTC$ 0.00AA0
US$ 1.00 =   RplO412.50
FISCAL YEAR
A.rIJL 1I  -LVidichI J.l JLt 1-y J- JUlLK J3
A 1-)n Tnl TT A ',Tf'.TC' A kITr% A f'fl TXx 'kO
PLDDJXJ V It%  I%JIN) at1L'LJ 1I1%X .JI 1 lvi
B!Sm     ~    Sernarar. ncyLldustria!I RkT) Tnsetitel
BPPIP         Agency for Industrial R&D
DDDT           A ge.cy fnr 'h. Asccessm.nt n.d Ar,nninatinn ofTP'hno%nImu
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CE'TP A ?T,   C         P,h,.,.,nt for TPhn,n1nm, Pnli,py Analirsie anut macmncam.mpnt
CSIRO         Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization
AN PA  I reAA gI,*lf      Sen.ices ,..r i. 1 A ,$n-.tSce
(Dana Kemitraan Peningkatan Teknologi Industri)
IRDCI         Institute for Research and Development for Chemical Industry
II LJT        IUULIMLI ial I nds ULIrLaY Tvelo,;IVJ.nen,i I IVJ.cL
KIM           National Metrology Center
K' A             CTY-A-- -            --A Cor ..,c Tad-Adu y-.
KIST          Korea Institute of Science and Technology
Lr         HIGrlublneil UIrS'u:'ILIe VI Sciences
MBIS          Management & Business Integration System
MOi           Ministry of Industry (later becamne MOIT: Ministry of Industry and Trade)
MvSS          Mvanage-me-nt SysLteriU .2eL-guieuiiig
MSTQ          Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
PAU           Policy Advisory Unit
PMRC          Project Management Resource Center
PPMS          Project Process Management Systems
PTSIs         Public Technology Support Institutions
PUSTAN        Center for industrial Standards
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RDCAC         Research and Development Center for Applied Chemistry
SMIs          Small and Medium-sized Industries
TA            Technical Assistance
TSO           Technical Service Office
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Mark Baird
Sector Manager/Director:  Amanda S. Carlier, Acting
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Lily Uy Hale



INDONESIA
I1NiDUSTRlAL TECIrIiNOLOG'Y DE-v'ELOffi;NT PROJIECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              13
6-n.-Sutainabilitv!S
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   16
8. LessonsI £0 ..edC.LLt                                                           10
9. Partner Comments                                                                19
10. Additionai information                                                        21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              28
Annex 5. 'Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             32






Evaluation Summary
The Industrial Technology Development Project (ITDP) was triggered by the findings of many studies in
the early 1990s about the importance of technology support services in enhancing the competitiveness of
firms, especially SMIs on the one hand, and the weaknesses of public technology support institutions in
Indonesia (which employed about 80 percent of the country's scarce scientific, technical and engineering
manpower), on the other hand. The series of events led to the formulation of a project which became
effective on March 18, 1996, with an estimated project cost of US$60.9 million and a loan amount of
US$47.0 million. However, in light of following the 1997 economic crisis, the Government of Indonesia
(GOI) launched a series of debt portfolio restructuring across the board which impacted all IBRD loans,
including the ITDP on three separate counts. These events led to the scaling down of the ITDP loan
amount by US$8.5 million to US$38.5 million.  At project closing on December 31, 2001, the loan
disbursement amounted to US$32.64 million, i.e. 84.7% of the reduced loan amount.
Overall Ratings
The project was rated satisfactory from project design, through preparation, supervision and its impact to
the SMIs. Throughout project implementation, Bank staff worked closely with the government and the
implementing agencies and provided them with extensive assistance. During the project life, the changes of
task managers occurred three times which may have caused delay in processing of documents in the
transition period. However, taken in the context of overall performance of the team, the Bank performance
was rated satisfactory.
The commitment of the Government (despite several political changes throughout project implementation
period) to the project was shown through the continued allocation of operational counterpart funding to the
proiect entities.  This has helped to preserve the original objectives of the proiect components,
notwithstanding the economic crisis experienced by the country in the late 90s. Although there were
instances where the borrower performance could have been better. e.g., the unnecessarily prolonged
non-response to some of the correspondence delayed document processing, in the context of overall
performance and in terms of achieving the project objectives, the Borrower's implementation performance
was rated satisfactory.
Project Objectives
The objective of the nroiect (ITDP) to enhance the comnetitiveness of Indonesian industry. narticularlv the
small and medium-sized industries (SMIs) was consistent with the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance
Strategv (CAS). which emphasized the importance of imnroving Indonesia's competitiveness and the need
for a shift towards a productivity-based economy and the complementary private provision of supporting
infraqtnictnre services. The nroiect sunnorted this CAS objective by focusing on the improvement of
technology support institutions (R&D centers) and facilitating the access of SMIs to these technology
services which were designed to increase their competitiveness througrh improved manufacturing and
management skills.
The project was responsive to the needs of the Borrower. It envisioned different benefits such as yielding
peconr%mic arnd firannaren1 r nhim tn 1ndnnP-qia'Q SMT mnmifarh.hiiring sector hnAnri ~inghtnntin2 catalytic eff-ect
on other public sector investments in the provision of technology services, as well as influencing Indonesia's
national teChnolong  nnlicieanc nn nrorams. Thscp hPnefits arP Penxrpter to hb reli7Pe thhronuh the



implementation of the project components which included the following: (a) providing public and private
technology support services to the SMIs; (b) facilitating their access to public and private technology
service providers (through a DAPATI Program which provided a matching grant scheme to encourage
SMIs to avail of the technology services aimed at increasing their competitiveness); (c) strengthening and
maling more market-oriented the public technology support institutions; and (d) improving the formulation
and coordination of industrial technology policies.
Summary of Findings
The project enabled the GOI to take advantage of the lessons from Bank-supported technology projects
throughout the world, take a more proactive stance in focusing industrial technology development policies
and programs and in aligning them more clearly with private sector development and industrial
competitiveness.
Among the different activities under the proiect the twinning partners brought value to the Indonesian
institutions by the transfer of their superior R&D Management practices. The twinning relationships led to
both new avenues of technology and business develoDment as well as human resource development such as
in training of leaders in R&D management. The project enabled some of the institutions in MoIT, LIPI and
BPPT to come together as "Team Indonesia" for the first time. and offer services to each other- rather than
seeking them from abroad.
The process of business orientation of the R&D institutions not only moved forward as designed, but went
bevond the original expectations. It led to concrete actions of some institutions in setting up nf snin-off
companies, each with their own way of doing it, e.g., the creation of Foundations and Holding Companies
as  ltAfe.S-r.edia.. by L!P!; a.. t.e co.versi on of viable P" D   ats zs D.fla-O  Uy L.., . Ther
self-financing performance for all the supported institutions moved upwards in different ways. For
example , 1JLUAS wiU. a Oelf-fr U1 ci  Vatio  f U  M/u, achV evedr.. u.I.bUe LWV jJUpUsII basvu or, oveuI
earnings among all the MorT institutions, thus enabling MorT to contemplate the upgrading of BISm from
Echelon III to Echelon i . RDCAC's income from industry increased from 24% to 84% during the
project. BPPT's overall income increased from Rupiah 10 billion to Rupiah 15 billion in three consecutive
years, whereas RDCAC's self-financing jumped from 16% to 43% in the last year of the project.
The Institutional Strengthening Component of the project completed a study on the formulation of
Industrial Master Plan and Policy which led to the concept of a high powered commission named "National
Competitiveness Council" headed by the Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs.. The Council,
composed of high govemment officials, meets periodically to discuss current economic issues and events.
The study also led to the formulation of a National Industrial Strategy where the discussions on "clusters"
concept prompted the govemment to revisit its current industrial laws and the consideration for possible
changes of these laws which would facilitate the implementation of the strategy.
Throughout project implementation, the Bank team complemented efforts of the research institutes in
working towards an environment where they can pursue freely their research objectives without being
restrained by budgetary concerns. The Bank team exerted much effort in discussions with the Ministry of
Finance on the implications of Law 20 to the financial well-being of the research institutes. While it has
not been successful so far, it has resulted in some progress in raising awareness to the problem among some
key government officials. The International Workshop on Science and Technology, funded by the Bank
and which took place on June 17-18, 2002, has included this topic in its agenda. The objectives of the
workshop is to further raise the awareness of high government officials on the imnortance of Swadana



status for all the R&D institutes, to showcase the successful international experience in this area and
hopefully be able to convince MOF and other high government officials to support the budgetary flexibility
for the R&D institutes in Indonesia. The government is currently preparing a "Green Paper" which will
take note of the discussions and decisions from the workshop. The paper will serve as the policy guidance
for future R&D development. The deeper objective of this workshop is to lead to the MOF's action to
revise Law 20 to allow budgetary flexibility of the R&D institutes. Since the workshop itself (along with
its objective) is outside the scope of this project, the outcome of this workshop has not been included in the
assessment of the project.
Overall, the project served the intended purpose of having a demonstration effect, influencing the overall
technology policy and expenditure in the direction of commercialization, accountability and transparency.
Moreover, the project facilitated the process of transfonnation by establishing restructuring incentives and
procedures among the R&D institutes.
I/ Perjans are government institutions positioned to become financially independent in the long Irun but are still subject lo
certain adntinistrative regulations in the short rin.
2/ Research institutions under MolT are classified according to their scope of research activities and self-linancing ratio;
Echelon Iii incitides those institulions at the regional level whine Echelon ff at the nationat level. Thne autter classification
denotes a mor e prestigious position.
3/ Swadana Li an exemption granted to some research institutes or universities fi-om comDlving with government hudgetai-v
r estrictions which apply to most other research institutes.
Sustainability
The project components that appear to be sustaining themselves include: (a) continuation of the Policy
Advisory Unit (PAU) as a think tank for GOI; (b) continuation of a DAPATI-like program by BPPIP
(although on a smaller scale); (c) continuation of some of the partnerships with foreign twinning partners;
and (d) the process of business orientation of the institutions leading to spin-off companies or the
conversion of viable R&D units into Perjans. However, the issue of long term sustainability needs a careful
consideration at the highest level in GOI. For example, maintenance of a modem technology infrastructure
established in LIPI (Component E) will require committed human and financial resources. In general, in
the long run. the laboratories, outreach centers or other services that have been offered free by the
government agencies will have to become self-sustaining.
Several skills that were acquired by the Indonesian institutions either by twinning arrangements, or by the
acauisition of software and hardware should be made available for the benefit of other institutions
(including universities) which need these skills, by means' of "skills spread" program in the post-ITDP
nhase.
Tn general; the sustainabilitv of many of the nroiect activities seems feasible. However, the issues of
socialization, institutionalization and implementation have to be addressed, not in isolation, but by linking
them in a holiitin manner to vario-us asnects such as ecnnTnumic incentives, institutional recLimen educattion
and labor.



Lessons Learned
1.    In order that research institutions move away from being wholly government-funded and develop
self-financing capacity, the government should provide strong incentives for external revenue generating
activities and allow the institutions to retain and accumulate their earnings, and to be able to use these
earnings with greater flexibility and freedom.
2.     The Indonesian institutions are capable of providing service to each other, rather than seeking it
from abroad. The "Team Indonesia" spirit developed during the project among the institutions in MoIT.
LIPI & BPPT should be spread to universities with suitable incentive schemes. The experience from this
nrmiect with institutions learning from each other nroved to be very useful and ended with g,ood results.
This lesson could be useful for future projects in the project design stage, to explore the possibility of
twinning arnonnr the instititions within the Gni mtrvy rather than always seeking help from abroad-
3.     The Borrower shoufld consider additional capacitv bhuilding for imnplementing agencies nn the
Bank's procurement procedures. This is especially important for new agencies implementing Bank projects
for the first time fhirincy the nrmient imnlementntion nerind bnrrowetr exnerienned nrnmiirement nrmhle-ms
due to their lack of understanding the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. It is important therefore to provide
imn,lpm,ntinr agencies the necessary., training un fmnt rather thqn when nrnhlems are detected dlring
implementation.  By providing the training up front will also avoid possible delays in project
impermentation ;nd the case on rmsnroc-remen.t.
4.     The support required for SMITh is not in technnology anrd softw.are alone. Capita' financing to the
SMIs to enable them to fully utilize what they have acquired in the Project (e.g. technology, management
a..A m,rlke,;ng skils, is .1-o vey, ;m-nnrtant and uet seer.ed lanli-n tn many nf tlw SIsATc -vhih ha-e
benefited under the project. Providing easier access to capital and technology for SMIs is a particularly
UItj.fJULLt facf.o Avr the; busit,,.e  groth. Ln this r tn, t-ject s.-.oJLd  ve beenhn..ted n a
broader strategy of assistance to SMIs.



| rJcID  P037 IArjc.^' DAA2QQ            e: ID-IND'Ld                          TE~iKc!CAf.JLG DEV~X
Team Leader: Lily Uy Hale                               !TL Unit: EASPS
JcR Type: Core ICR                                       IReport Date: june 27, 2002
1. Project Data
7M"me: ID-IND'L TECHLNOLOGY DEV                     L,rC!T,.N1,mber: CPL=39720;
SCL-3972A;
SCPD-3972S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: DB - Business Environment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   05/01/1994                             Effective:                    03/18/1996
Appraisal:  04/15/1995                               MTR: 11/01/1998            10/15/1999
Approval:  12/21/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOI/Ministry of Industry & Trade; GOI/lndonesian Institute of Sciences;
GOI/Agency for the Assessment & Application of Technology
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell Cheethamn
Countiy Manager:     Mark Baird                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Amanda S. Carlier                         Peter R. Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:  Lily Uy Hale                              Darius Mans
ICR Primary Author:  Lily Uy Hale; Sati Achath; Dr.
R.A. Mashelkar
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(IS-U.nh1v  tf>wtn.y, 1S=Shisa tort, t=tna T=T T6fhrtnrv MtT-=-TiThly   T M ,T I=Ti.I, Th-T.1ITT=Tik-, FTTI TN=WH.hly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome S
Ststainability L
Institntional Development Impact: M
B a n.k Pe'- ..an c e: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:
Th. nhiective nf thA TnJ,,cfr;a1 To,h,nln-, fa-,,pln-pont Project (TTnP) ,tas '.o ern,.o fhe
competitiveness of Indonesian industry, particularly the small and medium-sized industries (SMIs) by: (a)
p.ro,v,id,ing publd., a nd prifva.he '.ecunrology support, ser.,iMes to'.o., (Sb)s f.bi. i --r.g -..- ae   t.opu..c ^.U
private technology service providers through a DAPATI Program; (c) strengthening and making more
,nL %Lvi.avn.  UJ  tnn LtanJttJ au pnU  lIFtllVU-  Ut - &Y   J  mIjJLV- V   USa,  AVL,J,u, aUVII  VA.U
coordination of industrial technology policies.
The objective was consistent with the Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which emphasized
UIC UUjUI LaUt.,v, UI 1upJvvIUrVUI n UiUUv14a a %IUpiLuuVvLIba diLU U1S IIGU ivi a  IUIL LUWd.Umb d
productivity-based economy and the complementary private provision of supporting infrastructure services.
Lne project addressed each of t'hese areas througlgh its sULppoL for rmiore effecti-ve provision of technology
services. In particular, the package of policy reforms, institutional strengthening and capacity building
supported under the project was expected to riake a contibution LU enUnce hte coUlCmpeiitiveness oI
Indonesia's SMI manufacturing sector, the target group of the project. The experience gained under the
project was expecteu to proviuc a uselul ipul into uIdonesia s Lthnaology policies and programs.
i ne project was responsive to uie needs of ie Borrower. it was designed to improve mne productivity m me
technology area so as to maximize the supply-side response to the needs of the SMIs. Specifically, the
project addressed two important market failures in the area of technology-services. First, there was the
demand-side failure: many Indonesian SMI managers had underestimated the need for technology
improvements and were reluctant to spend scarce funds on new technoiogies. Second, tnere was a
supply-side failure: if left to the market, technology services would be underprovided on account of their
public good nature. Tne project addressed these market failures by initially lowering the cost, through
subsidies, of both public and private technology services. In particular, DAPATI Program (Technology
Services Matching Grant Scheme) was a response to the demand-side failure: its declining schedule of
subsidies for technology services was specifically designed to encourage the firms to test the waters and
move up the technology leaming curve. This initial subsidy was expected to yield substantial fmancial
returns, thereby convincing the SMIs of the worthiness of technology investment in imDroving the chance of
their long-term sustainability.
The project envisioned several benefits to indonesia, which included: (a) increased economic and financial
returns for SMls through reduced product defects, faster manufacturing turnaround times, lower
inventories, higher productivity, new product designs; and as a result of this, increased domestic and
export sales; and (b) substantial catalytic effect on other public sector investments in the provision of
technology services. Given its focus on improving the incentives and management practices of the
participating public technology support institutions (PTSIs), the project was expected to have a
demonstration effect, which would influence the overall government technology policy and expenditure in
the direction of commercialization, accountability and transparency.
The project was also expected to have a positive fiscal impact, since it would enable the government to
deliver the same level of technology services with a lower budget. First, the expected net impact of the
project on the private provision of technology services was expected to be positive; and second, the
self-financing ratio of the PTSIs was expected to increase as a result of the project.
The project enabled the GOI to take advantage of the lessons from the Bank-supported technology projects
- 2 -



thrnnn'h-n *1-t u,nrlA Tt PrnohlaA flflT tn *oL-5 I  -hr  rtnhn *r- , nnennntro
ala t. flfll. It enabled GOI to1'ke aamore p   ai star.ce in focusirg   101 t.oloJy
development policies and programs and in aligning them more clearly with private sector development
needs5 ar.d industni,al cor,pe,rtitves. 'The Bank also played a tcey role_in n  _bls- - aico..nn policy ar.
institutional framework for industrial technology development that was being supported by other financiers,
unld. the~ Asi,ar. felo.a,i..am,,t Bak
i Rn project 1.-zed ar.d took i,t.o accoukLt two risk facto10   wi, c WLCh coUUld afll,cL te pILUJect
implementation:
The first risk factor was the slow pace of reorientation of the public technology infrastructure
LUWaLd.U kVUill-leil a,  andU L- -OL-inL1LVU managemeLItL, effeLVctiv I..JLUUiuLaLVUL UL r,-V1UnerLt poiLciVs for
industry, science & technology and the development of competent private service providers. Likewise, the
.lvu secLor Loo co-uuud be slow uiaccessing uu utilizuirg 'uhe new sevices bezing offered. To deal witu ulese
risks, the project preparation was extended to: (i) help build consensus within the government on the need
to achieve strategic reonentation of public support for technology development, including drawing on tne
best practices from other countries' experiences; (b) develop a new policy framework that would drive
rTI s to commercialize their research and development and to deemanu ior their greater accountability in
achieving measurable results, increased transparency and better management of operations; (c) provide the
participating PTSIs with an opportunity to develop sound business plans for their commercialization; and
(d) obtain the participation of private industry and professional consulting associations in project design
and inplementation.
The second risk was the project's sustainability, since DAPATI was only a piiot scheme and there
was the risk that due to budgetary reasons govemment would not continue to fund it after project
completion. This risk was addressed by a pianned evaluation of DAPATI which would provide the
government with a very good informnation base to decide the future of the program; and also by the Bank
reviewing with the government throughout the project implementation period the progress of DAPA TI and
plan for its extension after the closing of the project.
At the onset of project formulation, it was recognized that all the benefits of the activities supported under
the project may not be easily quantifiable.  The research centers were given numerous twinning
arrangements with research institutions from countries with different levels of technology attainments and
cultures. The project was also very demanding on the Borrower, since it involved networking of many
ministries and implementing agencies, which had no experience in undertaking Bank projects. Therefore,
developing a coordinated strategy among them was a daunting task. In addition, a large arnount of
procurement activities required substantial knowledge of the Bank's procurement guidelines. Throughout
the project implementation period, the Bank conducted several training courses for the implementing
agencies' staff which minirmized the problem of lacking procurement skills of these agencies. In retrospect,
if some of these training workshops were conducted up front as project preparation, the additional intensive
training workshops could have helped avoid some implementation delays.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Even though the project experienced restructuring three times, these were debt portfolio restructuring
instituted by GOI across U 'uiboard -which UUlnacU all IoDIU loais, uin uudirg uie ITDP~. Tisii udui i2fru fo
some restructuring of projects which aimed at ameliorating problems encountered during project
implementation. Tne inpact of these series oi restructuring on ITDP was a scaling down of activities from
different project components, resulting in a cumulative loan reduction of US$8.5 million (from US$47
million to US$38.5 million).  Notwithstanding the scaiing down of activities, tne objective of the
- 3 -



components were unichhanged  since he canceuiauun ui tie acu-viues was done uiruugn a careiui ana
thorough review of the Bank team with GOI project teams, bearing in mind that any cancellation would not
affect the achievement of project objectives. For example, training abroad for some R&D center staff and
the subscription of journals and books, which during project preparation was deemed important, was
canceled as much of this knowledge/information from joumals and books is now readily accessible free
through intemet services.
Another scaled down activity was the magnitude of coverage of the DAPATI Program. The objective of
the program was to introduce technology services to SMNs through initiai subsidy. The originai budget
allocation for the program aimed to reach 600 SMIs was unrealistic as it was under the assumption that
once the project is approved, the program could be rolled out smoothly without issue. in reaiity, the
program took off to a slow start and also took longer than expected due to the learning curve experienced
by the DAPATI Management Contractor in implementing the DAPAII Manual in accordance with the
Bank's contract and procurement guidelines. The 1997 economic crisis and the domestic political
disturbances in the late '90s exacerbated the slow pace of the program.
The portfolio restructuring therefore provided an opportunity to reassess the implementation of the
DAPATI Program. While the original objective of reaching out to SMIs to encourage their use of
technology services remained unchanged, the reduction of the target number of SMIs provided a more
realistic indicator and also resulted in a loan saving through reduction of DAPATI grant allocation as well
as the contract amount of the DAPATI Management Contractor.
Finally, the 3rd phase of the twinning arrangement between BPPT and its partner Battelle Memorial
Institute (BMI) was cancelled and the task of its implementation was undertaken by a local consultant and
the BPPT staff who have benefited from the first two phases of the twinning arrangement. The partial
cancellation of the contract also resulted in loan savings through the restructuring process.
In sum, the portfolio restructuring provided the project an opportunity to reassess the needs of the project
activities at different stages of implementation, leading to a loan reduction/saving of $8.5 million in
cumulative terms, yet without compromising the achievement of project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project design was well prepared and the components were related to achieving the objectives stated in
3. 1 during project preparation stage. These objectuves were planned to be achieved througn the following
key strategies:
Provide Indonesia's public technology support institutions incentives to become more demand
driven and commercialiy oriented, and establish targets for them to become increasingly seif-financing.
Reduce government controls to encourage the institutions to become more agile in responding to
the technological needs of industrial finns, while also increasing the institutions' accountability for results.
Implement internal management reforms at the institutions to ensure that they become more
professionally managed and results onented.
Component I. Improvement of Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality (MSTQ) Services
The MSTQ component comprised of: i) Providing quality awareness among SMIs; ii) Accreditation of
quality systems of SMIs;- iii)  Establishing outreach centers for assisting SMIs; iv)  Upgrading
laboratories under MoIT to improve its services to SMIs; v) Upgrading and assessing the National
-4 -



ivivuiugy l V1ILV1 VI  V1  - and.-VI.) UipLIadiLUg ar.d assing cl1IUIa.UII labUIdLUIriS -IuIer tue INaional
Calibration System (JKN which aimed to provide better services to the R&D centers.
Items (i)-(iv) were handled by the Ministry of Industry and Trade's (MoIT) Center for Industrial
Sinuarus OPUSTAN) anu iLems (v)-(vi) were handled by the National Metrology Center tKuVi  - LiPI).
The former was done through a Master Plan by providing technical assistance (TA) and training to improve
the dissemination of setadards to industry, especially SMivs; and impiementing programs for improved
testing and calibration services and national certification of product quality and quality management
practices, including iSO 9000 certification for industries.
The project provided TA to: (i) KivM through a twinning arrangement with a leading intemational
metrology and calibration laboratory for building its management and institutional capacity, including
improvement of its tecniucai proficiency; (ii) ruSTAN with an intemationally reputed accredited
laboratory to improve the performance and institutional capacity of five testing laboratories of MoIT with
the objective to gain intemational recognition and accreditation. In addition, it covered training of staff in
eight MoIT R&D institutes as MSTQ extension agents; developed cooperation with the Indonesian
Chamnber of Commerce and Industry (KAI11-N) in conducting programs to promote quaiity awareness and
implementation in industry; and initiated ISO 9000 certification of 40 SMls as a pilot demonstration to the
rest of the industry and as a leaming-by-doing training program for their staff.
Component II. Diffusion qf Good Technology Practices (DAPA Ti)
To improve the provision of technology upgrading services to SMIs, the project supported the creation of a
Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme (DAPATI). DAPATI was demand-responsive and promoted
private sector delivery of technology services, while avoiding the creation of new govenmment agencies. The
funding was done in the form of grants to cover part of the costs of different technology services At project
design, the Program was set to target 600 SMIs of all subsectors. Subsequent events such as the East Asia
Crisis, and the political turmoil in Indonesia in the late '90s, however, led to drastic reductions of the
program target to a more realistic level of 130 contracts.
Component III. Improvement of the Productivity of Public R&D
(a) Improved management at BPPT and LIPI. The project supported improvements in the intemal
management systems of BPPT and LIPI through introduction of measures to improve their autonomy and
accountability, and to provide incentives for their effective technology support services. This was done
through twinning arrangements with internationally reputed contract research organizations. The focus
was on strengthening their capabilities in areas such as business development, contract administration, and
intellectual property management. The objective of this component was aimed at providing better quality
services to SMIs, thus increasing their competitiveness, through improved management of their service
providers, BPPT and LIPI.
(b) Restructuring selected laboratories. In general, the R&D capacity of SMIs is limited, whereas the
publicly funded R&D institutions (with 80% of Indonesian S&T force) remain insensitive to the needs of
SMIs. To encourage these institutions to redirect their focus from pure research towards increased
partnership with SMIs, three laboratories under LIPI and MOIT were selected for comprehensive
restructuring which included improving their R&D capability and their management skills. The objective
of these efforts was to encourage the R&D institutions to provide better services to SMIs. The Bank's
similar projects elsewhere (e.g. India) have shown that such a restructuring of institutions helped SMIs in
receiving better technical services. Restructuring of R&D institutions is thus an integral part of any
- 5 -



technology linked project of the Bank.
Component IV Improvement of Industrial and Technology Policy Formulation.
This small component, which consisted of TA to the Science and Technology Policy Unit of the Agency for
the Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT), was essentially meant to strengthen the ability to
monitor and evaluate the impact of ongoing technology programs.  It also aimed to formulate
results-oriented technology policies and more effective mechanisms for improving Indonesia's industrial
competitiveness through technology upgrading. In addition, the project also provided TA to the Policy
Advisory Unit (PAU) of the Agency for Industrial R&D (BPPIP) under the MoIT to design collaborative
programs with the private sector for strengthening industrial competitiveness and to prepare the next phases
of the deregulation process.
3.4 Revised Componenits:
Not Applicable
3.5 Quality at Entiy:
Not applicable.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. i Outcomelachievement of objective:
Th  ~   cn,nnaaA ni .  rnnt b. -h0n,,4- o^onnc  f QT%Air h1, -AA.-a fa-knno-
The proJe.,cceeded iFr.JLi5 -I.- -t,h.e  .i a..a.OsJsL    J kfJ*'J 5 -V-- tec.'ica! ssifce using
various means which resulted with the following: (a) quality awareness seminars were conducted in 9 areas
Ui. ILdonesiza   a. attendiAanceo 3160 SJ.J  cor L  .s..flfpanie i j  0) qrLt aVl documentation ..jugh
in-house training were provided to 672 SMI companies; (c) quality systems within enterprises were
imp Ar.e, (d)t AA SQAArT.  A--, - A --A.e   -1-selcte for ISO onn0 cerufication;- (e) provide helir
UUJ~LL JI t%LLVJ,~ I,U  *V  lvLJLUO  W~k   144%41&&LiS auL SUUO1 .Vt  V  &'J  VJJ'A  LaafJi   JLU VLUI~U  AII LlU
internal quality audit; (f) provided training and implementing management review; and (g) assessment. It
also crecateud a posi.v i...pac on LSX A'T_ in t...- s4 of  -.-i inc.-sed --A-u4-t 1owe; proucton ejetio
41~UIA~4VU 4~U~LLLVV 1LL4ta% USA OIMVUL Ui L~.LJ.IM VA US~A1LAL A"(S4a0U jALAUVU%,V1LY, LVWVL Pt'VUU%L.LIUA 1-~JV%."VUU
rates, and improved management, thereby enhancing their competitiveness.
Even though only 27 out of the targeted 40 SMls under the PUSTAN sub-component obtained ISO 9000
ceni[Ui uon, hle rIeruuug 13 aivius ha-V- pabssu xi-.WU. LA.l-i  Loia for VV ISO 90  U dia reduy LU ouLain Uie
certification once funding becomes available. These SMls have acquired the skills needed for ISO 9000
but short of having a certuficaW o show- tWheir qUaiuiLauUuiL  ih [i iIg-UHr ne UL Ulf: aiVUS d0 not nave
funding to pay for the certification is not very convincing. It is possible that the SMIs were not totally
convinced by the merits for obtaining iSO 9000, and thus hesitated 'to spend the rnoney, especially under
the tight economic situation.
Under the DAPATI Program, most of the SMIs improved their productivity and increased their sales
revenue (the increase ranged from 30% to more than 100%). As the Program became well-known overtime,
a growing number of SMTls (from 27 SMls in 1997, increasing to 241 in 1998 but slowed down quite a bit
in 1999 to 74 and the pace picked up again in 2000, reaching i97 Siflvs) had approached the Management
Contractor (MC) for assistance and expressed interest to participate in the Program. Total grant value
amounted to Rupiah 4,520,626,275 (60%) with the share of the SMIs reaching Rupiah 3,05i,393,858



(40%).
(ii) Twinning Arrangements:
As part of the program to improve R&D centers' skills in providing services to SMIs, the project succeeded
in establishing cooperation between the researchers from the Indonesian R&D institutions and their foreign
twinning partners. The twinning partners brought value to the Indonesian institutions by transferring their
superior R&D management practices to these instititions. They contributed also to reduce the costs of
procurement of equipment, and modules to suit the local environment and context More specifically, the
twinning relationship between LIPI and CSIRO as well as LIPI and KIST led to both new technology and
business development as well as human resource development
Under the Management System Strengthening (MSS) component, LIPI's twinning partner CSIRO
(Australia) provided help in setting up a Project Management Resource Center (PMRC) and a Technical
Service Office (TSO). The PMRC specifically involved the aspects of Management Levels I/II change
management program, a leadership development program' (P2K) and a staff varticipation and support
program. The special workshops on team building and research planning, financial accountability, research
priority framework and planning and evaluation framework helped  in terms of fulfilling the basic
objectives of the change management.  The P2K programs focused on management of creativity,
development of communication skills, and scenario planning capability.
TSO established and made onerational in prioritv areas the core functions for the management of
technology, including business development, contract administration, intellectual property management and
public affairs and communication. The Center for Innovation. established in June 2001, not only assisted
LIPI in becoming a better contract research provider, but also in assessing S&T capability and business
collaboration within Indonesia and overseas such as China, Australia. Korea. and Janan
Likew.ise, the twinning arrangement with TNO (Netherlands) had significant impact in enhannina the
technical, research and development and managerial capacity of BISm staff and in making the institute
mnore client focused and qervire nriented, nnd increasing its ahilitv to offer hetter uinlitv servincs to
industry which eventually led to increased business and income, thus achieving a higher self-financing ratio
rennhincr 600/.at nmiere rcInoincr
Tinder the Mansgement & Business Integrntion System (MBIS) compnnnent BPPT had a stWinninu
arrangement with Battelle Memorial Institute (BMI), USA. Overall, there was a marked improvement in
hiiildina rtierhnl filn-tinnc in thp .rent of h dcinPcg develnnment re%nftrnt m innwopmpnt nilhlir rplntinne snrl
communications, and intellectual property management. The creation of centralized business development
nrornnti7n1'inn prpntinn of mnrtaetina tnHtnhaeo nas waell na Atataev on BPPT nanIaipitie A-A-   ni of
standard contracts and contract tracking systems, improved public relations, development of inventors
guides, nnhnnrd flmnn of -atonts _sv! as creation of nfiicarnro  ar.d rognitionrnnran,. were
clear gains from the ITDP intervention. What was missing in this twinning arrangement was the latter part
on the gud,ance - ro-,Aded to BPPI on the                 A-nlementatin an.d policy directins. BPPT was not con.vinced
that Battelle could handle the task and undertook a technical review of its performance. The outcome of the
the cancellation of h.e third phase implementation by Battelle. Instead, BPPT used a local
consultant to continue the Phase 3 implementation which achieved the objective of this phase.
In general, the Indonesian R&D institutions acknowledged the benefits brought by their twinning partners.
Ther.z.-b - .t.. p-vr.nf +U-,e, p.o.^-.c can   -be -- evide-ce   tho¢  e incree in +kheir  --vrean
A 1kV LItOCLLr'.U ULjLqU a V VIIPU JL UE,U p~IIVILL~UUI%A 'u U%, ~V IG1%Lf.vG ULvtu JU it 111CUIMSC 11 UKII, Liiwi11i, ailu
-7 -



self-financing ratio during the project implementation. Tnese improvements in turn showem the wiiingness
of 'SMIs to use the technology service providers which links directly to the project objective of improving
the competitiveness of the SMivs.
(iii) Strengthening of public technology support institutions and iteir responsiveness to the needs of
SMIs:
KIM-LIPI: The project was instrumental in increasing the capacity of KIM-LIPI to a substantial extent.
For example, its efficiency and capacity were enhanced in terms of shortening of calibration time,
achievement of higher accuracy, and avoidance of the need of calibration by foreign laboratories as a result
of internal capacity building. While its own standing went up with its ability to participate in the
inter-laboratory comparison programs in the Asia Pacific region, it was also able to provide better support
to indonesian industry and trade more effectively.
Good progress was also made in the area of intellectual Property Management, especially the training in
the drafting of patents by using the personnel from the Indonesian patent office and the CSIRO patent
attorney.
BPPT: The project helped in changing fundamentally the orientation of BPPT towards industrial research.
BPPT became more responsive to the needs of the SMIs rather than merely performing as a government
research institute serving solely the needs of the government. BPPT also networked with other Indonesian
research institutes. For instance, LIPI and MolT for the first time collaborated in doing joint research
projects, and providing training from one institute to the other. Likewise, BISm was able to seek services
from BPPT rather than from a foreign consultant.
As BPPT's main instrument for its business development and management of its project technology service
activities, the Technology Business Development Office (TBDO) was formally established in August
1998. A center for Technology Services and Information (PUSYANTIS) was created, which replaced the
functions of both TBDO and Yantek Forum. The main task of PUSYANTIS will be to serve all the
BPPT work units and also manage BPPT's information systems and secure the sustainability of ITDP and
BPPT effort to become an effective contract research organization. The impact is already visible as judged
by income rising from Rupiah 10 million (1999) to Rupiah 15 million (2001), patents rising from 0
(1998) to 6 (2001), and self-financing ratio changing from 5% (1998) to 13% (2001).
(iv) Self-financing Performance:
The self-financing performance for all the supported institutions showed improvements in different ways.
For example, BISm with a self-fmancing ratio of 60% in 2001. achieved number two nosition among all
the MoIT institutions, thus enabling MoIT to contemplate the upgrading of BISm from Echelon I to
E.heInn   n RTnCAC's incrnme from industrt increased from 24% to R4% diuringr the nrmjert BPPT's
overall income increased from Rupiah 10 billion to Rupiah 15 billion in three consecutive years, whereas
RTC.AC's self-financing juimped frnm 160/% tn 43% in the last year
The Instit.utional Strengthering Corm.ponmenrt of the prject completed a study on the form.ulation of
Industrial Master Plan and Policy which led to the concept of a high powered commission named 'National
Cor.ptitivr.es Colln    hne1add kb the (nrenntinc.g Unictpr for Prnrnnmir Affairs  The or.,
-8-



cor.posedA of hig,h gonxn,remnt n#nulcas meetsr ner.dinll.r tn,o discus c.rnt eotnrr.omic isuesar.. d eve.ts.
The study also led to the formulation of a National Industrial Strategy where the discussions on "clusters"
cor.cept promp'.edLS ~ '   g .aflnflt.4l I s- h  c r.er.t ,ht.a.4l laws ar.d f-he corsieA--n+;- for possible
changes of these laws which would facilitate the implementation of the strategy. These actions, the meeting
0of +1IS cou.ci1 and L th V- ft o fl th tfl erAA-.t* 4.1 La. *OVV lav . a;.ln progress --sultr.g;  +L-. stuAd
supported by the project during its lifetime. It prompted GOI to actually take actions, as opposed to
pre,viu prctc -ir. ;_+-'hePO D cener c hich - sl- y put1 -u. coplte studies_ onA-  shelves w-i-hout 9-rvher
jJl',. LJM. " pL.-tR  a. u.1, ANtXZD  V111a -VU~.i UaUaJJ U. FUa LLJLV,%VJI41ULVU OLUUAVO VJU ILAt.L V ~ YIUIUUL IWUIWL
actions.
The workshop for the Capacity Enhancement for Technology Policy Analysis and Management
k% I t.IM) ylielUd  saisfac.Lo1y L;WLU WIUi LWU %.-vvoIoncVr UvVulopulmiu, vIL. uIV urinral enLuncia4llI Uo UCe
National Technology Policy for the year 2000-2004; and the integration of efforts to create the Indonesian
OA'  .  ......2..L               ...  I...  L.  ""fTV"'  _J                     -    -U .11  .33- i
a&T iLLUiUU15 WURA.1i are now Ubing usdu uie BPU P r  anD-i hich wiln evv-nLualy spreau Lo ani I¶LJ
institutions.
The project was successful in achieving the original objectives despite substantial reduction in the loan
amount. Although ute onginmal ojecuv was osuy to ornent te inmsuLuons towarus oifenng services to
SMls, the project was instrumental in the setting up of spin-off companies by some institutions. The
examples are, the creation of Foundations and Holding Companies as intermediaries by LIPI; and the
conversion of viable R&D units as Perjans by BPPT. This is a far cry from the early phase of the ITDP,
when institutions were struggling to come to terns with the idea of even networkicng witn business
enterprises. In addition, LIPI moved in newer areas of research such as new bioactive therapeutics based on
traditionally used medicinal plants. Tnis technology has been already successfully commercialized and is
bringing income to LIPI.
1/ Levels M/lT: classification of management level within LIPI
2i YaI tek rul:um. I nferfl fUjinal mu-nagemwun System in BPP
4.2 Outputs b, cornnponnents:
Component I: MSTQ Services
(i) Programs of PUSTAN-MoIT:
All activities under the MSTQ component for PUSTAN were completed:
(a) Technical Assistance to promote quality awareness: 3163 SMIs participated and benefited
from the quality awareness seminar, 672 SMIs were trained in documentation of the quality
system of ISO 9000 and 27 SMIs were certified into the ISO 9000. This activity was completed
earlier than most other components and the budget allocated was completely disbursed at least 12
months before proiect closing.
(b) Technical assistance for setting up outreach centers: This sub-component was successfully
completed in November 1999. Eight outreach centers were established in eight regions, 64
extension agents were trained in extension services and 1768 SMIs were assisted by the extension
agents.
(c) Upgrading laboratory management and conducting inter-comparison tests: This part of the
program comprised the provision of technical assistance to five testing laboratories of MOrT. All
-9-



UAC  -Vi-.d elen    Vo Le. j.-o&I.  w- -eS OUSA-.su ly coArA.lte by MIIA- 2000.
i P A    UtOgr   LI, of Y A-An riL A.
fl,L VILALVIU3  AUVLLL U.JJ  LAJLLLJUV"L.L W-6iL, DLLJa aA~AiL 1U& LLpI~LLL.u.
ka) T wuin,g AzfUflgentwicri. CS  xuOL, LausLia' prumary IAIVAru y ceneLV1, adIU A'ilvi-LIrl ihud
twinned together. All tasks covered by the contract between these two institutions were completed.
(b) Procurement of equipment for KIM-LIPI: The procurement of laboratory equipment was done
uirough two ICBs, Une simgle suourc p Llase Und. one :siteanal sV ppig.
Component II. DAPATI
148 contracts witn SisnU were signed, of wuich 14' contracis were Iuly iImplemented and accepte
by DAPATI. There were 86 Service Providers (SPs) assisting these SMIs. The total grant value
was US$5i6,450.9i (see earlier paragraphs for Rupiah value). Technology seminars were
conducted in Jakarta, Bandung, Semarang and Medan in December 2001, and these were attended
by 100 participants.
in addition, training sessions were conducted on: (a) Kiln Drying of Sawn Tiimber for Export and
Wooden Fumiture Product Quality Control for Export; (b) Waste treatment Management; (c) Fish
and Peanuts Processing; (d) Textile Garment Design and Finishing Techniques; (e) Engineering
Design of Agricultural Machinery; and (f) Metal and Non-Metal Foundry Technique for SMIs.
All these trainings were conducted for SMis in improving their skills in different areas which are
expected to improve their competitiveness.
Component III. Improvement of the Productivity of Public R&D
LIPI Programs:
New Business Development Guidelines were formulated, which include research planning and
priority setting, communication strategies, account management and issues dealing with standard
contracts and legal aspects. Further initiatives included the formation of the LIPI Foundation and
the formation of the LIPI holding company. These are expected to provide the necessary
facilitating mechanisms for technology transfer, creation of spin-off companies, and easy flow of
the proceeds of the profits of the companies back to LIPI.
The RDMS deliverables included Financial Information Systems (FBMS-OBMS), Human
Resource Information Systems (HRMS), Project Process Management Systems (PPMS), creating
WAN and LAN. However, LIPI-wide implementation of the systems was not very successful due
to reluctance of some managers to switch over from manual system to computer based system.
The RDCAC-IRDCI (MoIT) twinning program led to an initial partnership between the two
institutions with the joint research projects which successfully produced results to a new product.
While the twinning objective has been fulfilled, their further cooperation could have led to further
improving the products, with potential use in the leather and cosmetic industries. However, this
partnership did not sustain. They did not continue the partnership beyond the project. The
discontinued relationship could probably be due to personality issues between the two institutions.
- 10 -



On the other hand, IRDCI's partnership with NCL (India) has continued beyond the project.
The spin-off results of the work done at RDCAC in terms of their setting up companies in
fermentation technology moved from the pilot plant stage to the commercial scale plant at project
closure. With a turnover of over one billion Rupiah and an assured royalty of 3%, there will be a
significant revenue stream for RDCAC.
The Twinning Program between RDCAC and KIST resulted in a joint business operation between
RDCAC and a Korean company, KORTEK   A pilot project is planned to comnence in July 2002.
MoIT Laboratories
(i) BISm : Semarang Institute
Procurement of laboratory equipment/office supplies. This part was fully executed with delivery,
installation and training complete in all respects.
Training Activities.  In addition to capacity building, this component offered BISm the
opportunity to avail itself of numerous training programs both domestically and abroad. These
programs also exposed BISm to market opportunities abroad.
BISm rose to number one position based on overall earning among the thirteen other regional
institutions, and is ahead of several 'Balai Besar' institutions. It also benefited by new Internal
networking with LIPI and BPPT such as obtaining training from LIPI and BPPT instead of seeking
foreign assistance which led to some cost savings.
(ii) IRDCI (Institute for R & Dfor Chemical Industry)
Twinning with National Chemical Laboratory (India). The twinning with NCL helped IRDCI in
developing better models for institution-industry partnerships and in better delivery and marketing.
The decision by the senior management of IRDCI/NCL to continue the cooperation beyond ITDP
gave IRDCI a sustained advantage.
Twinning with AFNOR (France). This twinning arrangement helped the packaging division of
IRDCI in improving the laboratory management practices, in creating improved testing services,
and entering into new technology domains in packaging technology.
Laboratory Accreditation. IRDCI had an arrangement with NATA of Australia for the laboratory
accreditation program. This program was meant to get international recognition for ERDCI in
packaging, chemical, microbiology, waste water, and calibration laboratories. The program was
not completed at project closing due to a variety of reasons which included administrative delay
and unsettling political environment which caused security problems for the NATA staff to visit
Indonesia, since their time of visits coincided with domestic internal political disturbances.
Although NATA proposed to visit Indonesia again at the beginning of 2002, unfortunately, the
project was closed in December 2001, prompting the activity ineligible for financing out the loan.
IRDCI will continue pursuing other means to continue the objective of getting the international
accreditation of these laboratories. The other objective of getting these laboratories accredited
nationally was performed hy KAN- the National Accreditatinn Committee of Tndnnesia.



Agency for the Assessment & Application of Technology (BPPT)
As a concrete step in establishing strong links between the laboratories in BPPT and the private
sector industry, BPPT had set up the process of preparing several of its laboratories to be
transformed into business entities. BPPT conducted a feasibility study of spinning-off of some of
their technical units into financially independent business entities.  Based on the outcome of the
study, BPPT has decided to convert IPTEKNET into Perjan. A proposal has been submitted to
GO!, and npparently, it is still being considerec With the heln ofn lcnl consiIltant, BPPT carried
out the evaluation of the remaining 17 laboratories. A relative ranking was prepared on the basis of
the SWOT nnnlv5sis Arnrdincolv the hiiqin,qs npnns fnr qPve-nI 1nhArntnries were heing nrennred
by consultants. These steps are in the right direction, and indicate the willingness of BPPT to
-nder-  a fiLndamentani transforma.tion to mee the challenge of th. fitiirp* TUnrler RrlM5q
component, the two activities managed by PMIU-BPPT were RDMS training and the computer
.nd .-    ,-nfp,--pimont Thp' were vtsrtMA in earlu .Mau 200! a-snd nninilftied in bJnvemrHr
2001.
Component IV. Improvement of Industrial and Technology Policy Formulation.
Institutional Strengthening (Mol):
The Policy Advisory Unit (PAU) under MoIT completed several studies including the study on
Iut.A-_+; flU1 -.OO -d D. lWf anl.A  'fl.DJ' 1;-  AJSJ+*U  tOA  .-lA1 L AJ Cf*Lfh JLtlJtA- f  D..f-t&tAOttAL fl
dUL&usu  ., ase  P.. d  Poicy  lecto... -sec.o -  td _  d th--e Study on.su.-.5 -go
the Agro-based Industry. These studies were put into good use through implementation of the
relco.-ll,ULLUeauivU  uy U.v1 sMuUiS. A v1  eLX&Imple, La1L1 jF-  *c .. . ... .l..  .... V.11.i
government officials meets periodically to discuss current economic issues and events which
so111MuLUS leu Lu avuou VI ILLUME1 o11i'y discUssioUs.
Iru-stitutiu-nal Strengthening-° PT
Inh  Scieu(e  UU a   Tciiuilgy 1 dVIangeIUenL  icULy  0l) lVI) groIuJ cm1Lp1lvUM  a stLUUdy oL uilV
assessment of current technology policies. The most important output of this study was raising the
awareness on tne i-mportance of systernatic technology poicy a-ssessruents wi iUL Br T.
1/ Perjan iS a government insUilhtion under BPPT positioned to become financially independent in the long run but is
still subject to certain administrative regulations in the short run.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.S Institutional development impact:
An important outcome of the project is hIe U-ansformraiUon of BPP aDrr  ageUny Iuure mespuusi-ve t 'uhe
needs of the SMIs because it responds to specific demands from the SMIs rather than just undertalcing
research for academic interesis. Tney are also more cooperative with other research institutes suca as those
- 12 -



inder ,IPI and MoITT  As a res^lt of the intiatives ermrerging froM TDp, BPPT rndervent-restpJcturjrg
as outlined in the Decree by the BPPT's Chairman on March 30, 2001 (No. 021/ KP/ KA/ I!I/ 2001). In
the new structure, a Center far T, echnology InfLormnaticon and StandardiztiSeonices [PTTVAKTTrTQ ist
up to improve the implementation of tasks and functions of BPPT, particularly technology service to
'n ,o tria
d^^ i.es.
The specia v,ork.b1n- on tea, r. bA ;Ifing and  -lannnAn- .dted,      Tne  LII - -ograr.., he1leA the
change management. The P2K programs produced 47 managers, many of whom now hold Levels 1/11
positions a.-A   of      L    ,e,od to        r      t  i-n leadershi positions. TSO established _- --A
made operational in priority areas the core functions for the management of technology, business
A,oIn-..o.+  -A ----.+;ons.. T TbT I--.1-      U     ,4aro+-    T.-- -+;  ID-.   T--.,..
o.. .a.e..   aL.d c.t  .Q:-aL:ors. LIas, also 0 esa %,tablisheAd a C.erAAU  VA ML, atILIon (Pl UsaL Ilovasil).
Furthermore, LIPI has initiated a Forum of Communication for Researchers.
MoIT has established a core team consisting of 15 persons for planning and formulating National Industrial
PoliLcy 0I LU.donsla. IL Liao also UUiIL up a goou  WWvel uo %,VIUpe1L.Wny iL ULYVADV, dIV43 V1 Lto.lI11ULUry Ucu13.ra,
technology policy formulation, and technological innovation.
The twinning arrangements with various R&D institutions from different parts of the world facilitated
:L.X...L. I ti o.r 0. %       1    ..e -Z .:..       -....      -  'ThI  T TIlT  '..  TTCV.
stren;gul1eUn  U1 .AX  111411=8VIIIVUL erCi4UVU VIs IIUUIX.011011 in,ULUUtion such 4a r.UVk-L.Ji, and BISD1OM.
Some of these partnerships such as IRDCI/NCL have become self-sustaining and will continue beyond the
project.
5. Major Factors A ffeting In..plermentation a-A Outco.e
5. / Factors outside the control *^/governnment or implementing agencv:
The East Asian crisis of 1997 had caused some inevitable delays and to some extent cancellation of some
of the project activities (as discussed in the previous paragraphs). Apart from creating problems in
budgeting and counterpart funding, the crisis led to a period of inactivity within the country in various
sectors, which slowed down the progress in some components, such as DAPATI. It also created a new
challenge to the technology institutions, since their earlier projections on business and earnings were no
longer valid, and as a result, all the institutions had to reassess their performance indicators. Many SMIs
suffered from the financial crisis, and research assumed a lower priority. Despite these events, the program
made satisfactory progress.
Owing to steep devaluation of Rupiah in the wake of the crisis, implementation of some components which
were denominated in the then Rupiah amount was adversely affected. With the delay in project
implementation, the amount of Rupiah was no longer commensurate with the activities that were to be
undertaken subsequently in some areas.  Implementing agencies with activities affected by the currency
depreciation consequently experienced implementation problems due to the budget shortage.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government cont-ol:
Swadana: The Ministry of Finance's Regulation of 1997 (known as DIKS) leading to Law 20 was
A.atIA.111.lJ cuUUWAr,otL OAdA  a L.u0LAA.fLnVt. to Uth UiO-'.J  jL IIJJO I sUAeU ItIA.U11UU5 1LV011
industry. The procedure involved anticipating the earnings a year in advance, depositing the revenues with
UL.e 1V11LitU_Y, UdLirir.g LLLIt UbUdgeL r.eeds u.AIde; WILL IL it VWlI Ube OsJp.nL, CnZILA Os.g.itlin prio; pJJ.Ut 113Lui U tu.a1t-
any changes. In some cases, MOF had actually reduced the targets, that were set by the institutions, a
r_iv   th_t a   c lea ._l- ag-  .  .   A -- _ _  As:A..A+_A 1____  I  L_A f_Al^I. T   T,s... AIl 
1110U.L W43t wa::Udiculy 0aU1aL LSL  UAIVC U 1 U1 Ar l4UL 3U11-ULa.11   JJA%;IUD33vU Uy (.Jwl. IL waa   3 Utt UIOLd
- 13 -



tLh.e syi.,atiors wera . sipnI. .ne tbeir energies on fndmng ,l+a,-,t,  ,vays to c:, rn,., t the,systr-,
something that was totally counter productive.
Due to the East Asian Crisis, GOI initiated portfolio restructuring three times during the imnplementation
period for all Bank projects; n  as a   $8.5 r,   ffr TTQUAS7 mili- to US$38.5          --
cancelled. In response to MOF's call for loan cancellation, the Bank conducted a thorough review with
each;.pemrdn agency on a-11 +U-. reriir. t-1 b^t e-d Ln -an _444ao.ce ed ef=ot sor.e of
v4l0  AAl.41'aA.el5-J.  Jl  A  .lfV.- -r L-O.N0 US VJL  UU C-I.Ja A.iL 1,U CW.LU WIULLa conUcL,rteLU %I L , i U1  'I1, VJI
these tasks were cancelled. All cancellations were carefully reviewed to ensure that their withdrawal from
tLhe pkVJJ'-l  not -Jl Q LJ.e ai oUe'Ve-ILMAf J1.JL UUJVWLLV  k  L1I03XLctiJ.L (seeIC CasC CdU'CCled
under the paragraph on "Revised Objectives").
1/ Swadana is an exemption granted to some research institutes of universities from complving with governmcni biidgelary
r.ctrictinnv whi.h nnniv in mn.ct nther r-cemr,Jh invtihitP.C
5.3 Factors gener ally subject to implementing agency control:
Procurement. Lack of understanding on the part of some implementing agencies on the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines in general, and the Procurement Plan for this project in particular, was a major
problem which hindered project implementation. Many unnecessary steps were taken erroneously and there
were delays in procurement processing as a result of their weak procurement skills. For instance, ex-post
review of three completed DAPATI contracts showed that there were some problems in the process of
procurement The selection of the Service Providers (SP) for the SMls were not entirely made based on
Chapter 5A of the Operational Manual dated September 1998, which stated that the nominated SP should
be selected from three shortlist consultant firms. In many cases, SPs were recommended by the SMIs
themselves. These problems were further investigated by the Bank team where MC eventually provided
some documents, showing that while SMls recommended the SPs, there were actually three in the list for
comparison. The explanation was accepted by the Bank but the issue was raised in the Bank report (aide
memoire) which noted that future contracts should be implemented in a stricter manner. Subsequent
ex-post review showed that this problem was corrected.
Most implementing agencies were also confused in the procurement process that had conflicts between the
national procurement law as stated in Keppres 16/1994 and the procurement arrangement as agreed in the
Loan Agreement and the Bank's procurement guidelines. For example, the implementing agencies claimed
that following Keppres 16/1994, all procurement process should include a pre-bid meeting which was in
conflict with the Bank's procurement guidelines of not allowing such meeting for goods procured under
ICB. In addition, many procurement packages were conducted under national shopping and NCB following
the Indonesian national procurement law, without prior consultation with the Bank.
Lack of qualified and professional Service Providers (SPsM. Although the MC went through the process of
selecting SPs, many of the selected SPs were still unfamiliar with providing good engineering or technical
documentation reports, including the manuals at the level reauired by SMs. Corrections and revisions
were made in many reports to counter this problem, which became very time consumning and resulted in
some implementation delays. Disbursement process and procedures were one of the critical issues in
implementing the DAPATI grants for the SPs, many of whom were not familiar with the invoicing process
and procedures. On the average, it took almost four to five weeks to disburse the invoice for each of the
contracts.
DAPA TI Program: There was a prolonged delay in the implementation of this component. To begin with,
the MC came on board only in Sentember 1997, with a delay of more than one year. Then it took a few
- 14 -



months for the MC to preDare the first five contracts for the Bank annroval. When these were submitted
due to non-compliance of the DAPATI Implementation Manual by the MC in the preparation of these
contracts, there were a series of comments/clarifications and exchanaes of communications between the
Bank and MolT/MC and consequently the approval by the Bank was delayed.
The financial problems that the country was facing thwarted the progress of this component Demand from
industry for this nrogram was low for two reasons: (a) significant denreciation of the Runiah made it
difficult for SMIs to come up with the requisite matching funds of 25-50 percent (depending on
geogranhical location) to finance consultant services; (h) the shortage of financiLng for SMT industries
halted subsequent investments identified by the consultants. Due to the above problems, the Program's
targeted contract numbers were reduced from the nrioinal 600 to 130. The amnount allo-ated to this
component as well as the contract amount to the MC were reduced correspondingly.
5.4 Costs and financing:
SAR had estimated the project cost at US$60.90 million with a Loan amount of US$47.0 million.
However, in light of the 1997 economic crisis, the Loan was subjected to restructuring together with all
other IP.RD projects in response to GOIs call for portfolio restructuring across the board. The impact on
the ITDP was to reassess the components and cancellation of some project activities which resulted in loan
cancellation/savings amounted to $8.5 million, bringing the total loan amount to US$38.46 million. At the
time of project closing, loan disbursement amounted to US$32.64 million, i.e. 84.7% of the reduced loan
amount. The undisbursed balance of US$5.92 million will be cancelled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale #nr vstainhilitv ltinrtin-
Before making judgmnent on whether the project is sustainable, it is important to understand the objectives
of the project beyond what is literally outlined in the previous paragraphs. It is also imperative to take note
of the difference between the long term versus short term objectives. The long tern objective of this project
was to make the R&D sector financially independent so that they would have the freedom to pursue their
research objectives such as being responsive to SMW needs and conumercialization of their research outputs,
both of which will yield long term sustainability of the project as well as contributing to the economic
growth of the country. However, to achieve this long term objective, the R&D institutes have to overcome
many existing issues, such as budgetary constraint, and the traditional orientation of working for the
government to do research for its own sake. They also have to overcome the mentality of doing high profile
research yet with little relevance to the industry needs. This situation would not be changed overnight. The
objective of this project is to start the process of changing the mindset of the government officials as well as
the R&D institutions themselves in the short run and prepare them to take on challenge of doing research
for their own long term sustainability through commercialization of their research output. Many activities
of the project which aimed at achieving the short term objective may not be readily quantifiable, yet the
mindset change of R&D institutions is shown throug'h their cooDerative efforts with other R&D centers and
attaching more importance to intellectual properties issue as reiated to their research output. The project's
greatest contribution was to initiate the process of change within the R&D institutions and prepare them
towards achieving the long-term sustainability goal.
The project activities that appear to be highly sustainable include: (a) continuation of the Policy Advisory
UJnit (PAIJ) as a think tank for GOI: (b) continuation of a DAPATI-like nromram bv BPPTP (although on a
- 15 -



smaller scale); (c) continuation of some of the twinning partnerships such as LIPI/CSIRO and
IRDCI/NCL; and (d) the process of business orientation of the institutions leading to spin-off companies
or the conversion of viable R&D units into Perians.
On the other hand, the issue of long term sustainability for new structures and systems created under the
project needs to be addressed. It is very important that all aspects of this issue are examined at the highest
level in GOI at policy level. For instance, the salary of the 62 extension agents who have been placed in the
eight outreach centers, were covered by the GOI budget, and the promotional activities, and technical
assistance were financed by the project. A clear plan as to how these activities will be sustained, improved
and grown in the post-project phase as well as long-term plans need to be drawn on a priority basis to
ensure long term sustainabilitv. This issue has been raised, but has not received any commitment from the
implementing agency. This will form part of the items recommended for GOI consideration after project
closing.
Maintenance of a modem IT infrastructure established in LIPI infrastructure (Comrnonent JII will reauire
committed resources, both human as well as financial. Thus leased lines will cost Rupiah 350,000,000 per
year which will include LIPI online-system. Hardware and software upgrades will reauire a further
US$50,000 per year. Further, there are hidden costs for continuous staff upgrade as well as staff training
on new tools. GOI will have to commit funds to sustain these systems until such time that the institutions
are substantially financially independent This will require revision of the current budgetary restrictions
which hindered their total freedom of seeking external earnings. The International Workshop on Science
and Technology, which is taking place in June 2002, will focus on budgetary restriction issues and is
expected to result in positive spnnort by GOT through revision of some relevant budgetarv regulations.
Several skills that were acniiirrd hv the Tndonesian instihtuions either hv twinning arrangementS or hv the
acquisition of software and hardware should be made available to the benefit of other institutions which did
nnt acqlire these skills hv menns nf "skills snread" nroram in the nnct-TTTP nhae. Thiiz r.miid be pdAne
by making a skills inventory, institutional demand inventory and a supply strategy. BISm recently sourced
the skills from  BPPT and LTPI, rather thnn from overseas, with aappy hnntnu rnnp. The Tndornesian
University system could also benefit through such spread.
Finally, a Forum of Seven Institutes has been set up for the first time to discuss diverse issues connected
-ith _,o __u.re of t1,- mnoti4t,tnn-  Th.e. . ise of rrunn nore aun.ononA a.orr. in t..s of tbe
utilization of the income generated from the external sources should become one of the priorities of the
IFor i    ...  I. Fora ---c  __. one v. the o:gam-m.v the w.-natior-t WoA o __ n Sciencean
Technology is one step forward towards this direction.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regiilar operations:
No specific transition arrangements are envisioned. Regular operations would continue with the government
budget in the short run and hopefully, the institutions benefited from the proiect could progress towards
their financial independence in the long-mn; twinning arrangements do not need additional budget and the
partnership is expected to continue even after project closing.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 I  r.. g:
Satisfactorv. The nroiect's identification was well oreanized and satisfactorv. The Bank took into account
-16 -



the project's consistency with the govermment's development priorities and the Bank's CAS. The Bank,
which had a harmonious team with a good skill mix, including staff with various professional backgrounds
and a top-rated intemational scientist, brought state-of-the-art expertise into project design.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of the project design and all
major relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, including procurement and
financial management, environrmental, sociological, and consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies. In
addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a
consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal. Nevertheless,
Bank's performance could be better shown if the designed project objectives differentiate more clearly the
long-term as compared to short-term objectives.
7.2 Stupervision:
Satisfactory. The Banks performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the
SX year-s of project im,plementation, hUere were eigh.t supervision Lissions. Iil addition, tihe Banik's project
team kept close contact with the implementing agencies through frequent electronic mail communications as
well as telephone conversafuios wiuiuil wure iounu to oe very eniecuve m resolving urgent issues. The
Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive. The Bank took a finn and dynamic role in the
supervision of the project implementation. Aide remoires were reguiarly prepared and transmitted, whicn
alerted the government to problems with project execution and suggested remedies in a timely manner, in
conformity with the Bank procedures. The Forrn 590s and Project Status Reports (PSRs) realisticaiy rated
the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. wnenever aelays im implementatuon occurred, the BanK was able to define concrete steps
and a timetable for putting the program on track.
Even after project closing, the Bank's project team continued to work with the client on the sustainability of
the project. The continued effort led to fruitfui result in obtaining support from the Bank for launching of
an International Workshop on Science and Technology in Indonesia which is beyond the project scope, an
activity which will enhance the project sustainability. The workshop is aimed to provide a venue for top
level government officials as well as policy makers and research institutes to gain first hand experience
from the international scientists on the successful institutional transformation of similar R&D institutes
around the world  It will also provide a forum for debate among government decision makers and
international scientists in order to define the blue print for the future R&D development for Indonesia. The
workshop has been scheduled to be held on June 17-18, 2002. This initiative is an added effort by the
project team.
In compliance with Bank's requirements, the project team included procurement and disbursement ex-post
review in every supervision mission, especially during the second half of project implementation, and
whenever problems were detected, the project team raised issues with the Project Management
Implementation Unit (PMIU) and urged for remedial actions. For instance, in one case of rnisprocurement,
the agency concerned was asked to use their own fund for the purchase and the agency complied by
returning the loan.
External consultants, with expertise in their own fields and vast experience on similar programs in other
regions, were used for specific aspects of project components. The Bank staff worked closely with the
government and the implementing agencies and provided them with extensive assistance, in terrns of
reviewing their technical documents and provided professional advice to the regulations affecting the
budgetary issues haunting the R&D centers. This effort has resulted in a fruitful endeavor of launching of
- 17 -



an International Workshop on Science and Technology, the main focus of which is to review international
experience of financing R&D institutions and how this could apply in an Indonesian context.
7.3 Overall Bank perforniance:
Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.
Borroiver
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the
prparation stage, the Bnrrniovr edisnpluyd ar., admint,p ]pup] nfrn.nmitmert to the nkopjtivpe nf *e project
and all major aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and sociological
factor-s, icludin.g st-keholder com en  Th.e gov-ernent officials and staff of the implementing
agencies both worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis. Although there were
as+L         US wCCdiues ocrreAd1, the Barb tem raised +-he issues in ti.. and Lh. IVUs
were receptive to suggestions and took remedial actions.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Despite changes in administration, the govermment consistently maintained its commnitment
throughout the implementation. It had established good project imnplementation units and was able to
overcome many issues encountered during project implementation. Owing to the 1997 East Asian Crisis,
the govemment frequently faced counterpart funding problems.
7.6 Implemnenting Agency:
Satisfactory. Performance of BPPT, LIPI, and MoIT was satisfactory. Overall, PMIUs of BPPT, LIPI
and MoIT implemented their tasks satisfactorily. During implementation period, there were instances
where procurement and disbursement problems occurred. However, the PMIUs were always receptive to
suggestions and took remedial actions such as undertaking intensive trainings on procurement which
effectively addressed the procurement problems. Project reports such as Semi Annual Report and
Mid-Term Report were prepared and submitted to the Bank on schedule. This led to successful monitoring
of the programs as well as providing assistance to the supervision missions of the Bank in assessing the
progress against the set milestones.
7.7 Overall Borrower perfiormance:
Satisfactory. The overail performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Luessorns L'earr.ted
* In order that research institutions move away from being wholly government-funded and develop
self-financing capacity, the government should provide strong incentives for external revenue
generating activities and allow the institutions to retain and accumulate their earnings, and determine
the use of these earnings with greater flexibility and freedom.
* The Indonesian institutions are capable of providing service to each other, rather than seeking it from
abroad. The "Team Indonesia" spirit developed during the project arnong the institutions in MoIT, LIPI



and BPPT should be spread to universities with suitable incentive schemes. The exnerience from this
project with institutions learning from each other proved to be very useful and ended with good results.
This lesson could be useful for future nroiects in the proiect design stages to explore the nnssihilitv of
twinning among the institutions within the country, rather than always seeking help from abroad.
*   The Borrower should consider providing additional capacity building for implementing agencies on the
Bank's procu ement proceduires. This is especially important for n,w agencies imrnplemr.enting the
Bank's project for the first time. During the project implementation period, borrowers experienced
procuremnent problems dule to thteir lack of untderstanding the Bank's Proculrem.ent Guidelines. It is
important therefore to provide implementing agencies the necessary training up front, rather than when
nroh1irme nr fiptpt'tpti dirirur imnmpmptnt,,tnn  Ru nmuri,-ina fhp trmuninc, -, -Fr~^ t ...Hi .1  --,un-
problms --        --Pce  dIn  ..I....m.e. n--..a . By p-z,g h., --  -, Up .iont _vi! also avoid
possible delays in project implementation and the case on misprocurement.
*   The support required for SMIs is not in technology and software alone. Capital financing to the SMIs
ta aol. +it-n #- fi,16,  -h.i,n,,bt th-n, ib-  --n,irA ,n+1, -rn.on+ an -  bnn, nnna-n-.t0
toen.able therr. to . jA .l a thy hae acq_       - * .l  proj_. (e.5. t-L.-WlJy, r,.aage,,e ard-
marketing skills) is also very important and yet seemed lacking to many of the SMIs which have
I-eneA4fi+A   Un  +1A.   tAA  AAiAA  D  Ar ; -   A;A-  - - > - -   A- --+A]  --A 4JsAoAI   QAA _  TO   ;-   -
U\.vtu  uer -  vJ -        _um1 .1,o,v I *v at,.oo *V ..p.  axiu .wu1VIU&Y luI t.1Vin 1 a
particularly important factor for their business growth. In this respect, the project should have been
integrated in a broader strategy of assistnce  VW A
9 Partner ('nnmmentQ
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
It is pleased to say that the ITD project has been completely accomplished. When the GOI and the
World Bank drew the objectives, we found that it is important for national industries especially Srvils
to improve their competitiveness through improved productivity, product quality, reliability and
delivery. Tne objectives of -i DP are stiil relevant for 5 - 10 years ahead. The project has pioneered
and contributed to improving Indonesia's R&D centers and facilitating the access of SMIs to these
technology services. The improved manufacturing and management skills of SMvis wiii, therefore, be a
strong basis for competing in a fast changing environment. In our review, the project design is
adequately efficient since it involves three Indonesian agencies (LIPI, BPPT and MUIT) prominent in
industrial technology development. The Bank's endorsement to bring them together in ITDP has
established better communication and productive cooperation, such as collaborative research,
technology forun etc.
Despite the constraints that were faced during the implementation period and resulted in delays and, to
some extent, cancellation of several activities, the results were reasonable. From our perspective, the
implementing units persistently maintained their commitment to achieve the targeted outputs as
specified in the appraisal document. It is worth noting that the World Bank teamn consistently helped
supporting the implementing units to keep the project activities on track.
Given the difficulties during the project implementation, it is amazing that there was no revision in the
objectives nor the components. There were several amendments to the Loan Agreement focusing mainly
on budget restructuring. Substantial adjustment seemed less necessary, though revisions of few project
outputs were made. In fact, problems facing project implementation agencies varied widely from macro
to micro factors. At macro level, the economic crisis which hit Indonesia in mid-1997 brought high
depreciation of Rupiah against dollar. As a result, local budget provided for counterpart financing
became limited. The budget difficulties had forced project restructuring that inevitably affected the
implementation schedule. The political shift in 1998 continued to 2000 and had also contributed to the
-19-



:UriM1 iriSU1UVV111VIL VI tUV pr1ojecL dLaUVLUVb. rUIIUwUir iLVqUVUL sLL inI LuhV dUU1i1M, LUML WerI NrVfeLU11
personnel mutations. The new officers who replaced the predecessors required some time to get
acqaaLir WIUI  ' Uie pjeJUcA. Lis bUUvio-tisly keptL ULU aczUV1L1U Ub.ULhU ULU. UILCLLUU sciiUULe.
AtIL a LLucrO level, therIC werC inteUma aUU exteria radwUacs founu uuring the imnplemen'tation period.
Internal factors were ascribed to the shortage of competent administrative as well as managerial staffs
to carry out daily project management inicluding database maintenance, and institutional constraints
appeared to be fraught with bureaucratic practices. External factors were probably due to the World
Bank reorganization pian in i997 and the so-cauled 'strategic compact' that was reiated to
decentralization of operation functions from headquarter to regional office. Surprisingly, the Bank's
regional office in Indonesia became a better site in i998. inese two issues seemed to restrain
'just-in-time' decision related to Bank's approval to project documents. Although the issues seemed
less cruciai, they stiii affectedc the impiementation schewule of some of the key activities especially
within that period.
In view of consistent efforts carried out by implementing units, we can say that the overall project
performance is satisfactory. This obviously is based on the assessments of the tangible and intangible
benefits gained from the project. One of the important benefits can be seen in the case of twinning
arrangement. This was relatively a new experience for Indonesian R&D institLtes. Indeed, the
experience has effectively brought positive impact to them as they gained knowledge on better R&D
management practices from their overseas partners. In the future, LIPI, BPPT and MOIT may explore
their own best practices, which would enable them to provide better services to Indonesian industry in
order to compete at international market. Another new experience with a substantial benefit is DAPATI
program. This program has resulted in a growing quality awareness in SMIs whereas in the past, less
attention were addressed. It has also contributed benefits to the SMIs through productivity and revenue
increase. In the future, SMIs may have better competence to win the domestic markets especially when
free trade area becomes effective.
Satisfactory rating is not given merely by assessing the positive impacts, but also considers the lesson
learned from unexpected results. One example is related to procurement skill. It is apparent that
personnel involved in this project required a comnprehensive understanding on the Bank Procurement
Guidelines and the Procurement Plan. In the first half of project period, the procedures were considered
strict and inflexible. This was due to insufficient understanding on the procedures, and consequently,
many unnecessary steps were taken. We were pleased that the Bank actively conducted several
procurement training courses, throughout the implementation period and opened online consultation on
procurement process. As a result, some activities could effectively be accelerated at the second half of
implementation period and resulted in better outputs and achievements.
Considering the performance achieved, some of the project activities are perceivably sustainable. We
realize that it is important to thoroughly address the issues of socialization, institutionalization and
implementation linked with various aspects such as economic incentives, institutional regimes,
education, and labor. Sustainability also requires support on financial commitnent. However, the
sustainability of the project would be much higher if the Bank provides even further assistance.
In our opinion, DAPATI is a prospective program for future arrangement with the Bank. Through
DAPATI, it has encouraged a cooperative relationship between public and private sectors, in particular
with SMIs. Awareness on the importance of technology services requires to be developed and
supported with seed capital for technology investment. This will facilitate SMIs to expand their
capacity and competitiveness.
- 20 -



In addition we observe that ex-post review through drawing up Implementation Completion Report is
not entirely sufficient, since it has a limited perspective to extensively assess the long-term Impacts.
Therefore, we suggest that in the future the Bank could facilitate a follow-up evaluation for an
individual project covering issues in economic as well as non-economic impacts.
Last but not the least, we would like to express our deep gratitude to Bank's task managers of ITDP
for their assistance, contribution and good cooperation which led to the success of this project. We
acknowledge their enthusiasm and optimism to overcome the impediments related to 'Swadana' issues,
which had hindered the (flexibility of the R&D institutions and thereby the) effective provision of
technology services by them.
(b) Cofinanciers:
nihc     -nrt--t. /Alfln,a cor)
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
I            lndieatorlMatrix                   Prolated In last PSR                  A euallLatest Estimate
|Not applicable
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrik                    Projected In lastPSR                 ActuaULatest Estimate
I. INSTITUTE OF NATIONAL
METROLOGY (KIM-LIPI)                       98t99   99/00 0o     01               98/99  99/00   00    '01
1. No. of measurement fields of KIM-LIPI
istad in BIPM Globha MRA                                         2
2. No. of qualified assessors (cumulative) |                    30                 27     29    29     29
3. No. of calibration labs accreditedtD            25     30    30                 17    20     25     40
ISO/IEC Guide 25 or ISO 17025 (cumubtive)
4. % of calibration labs showing acceptable
inter-comparison results                           80%    90%    90%               50%    59%   65%     80%
5. Longest delivery time of calibration at
KIM-LIPI (weeks)                                   4       3     3                  5     5    4       3
II. R & D CENTER FOR APPLIED
CHEMISTRY (RDCAC-LIPI)                97/98  98/99 99/00   '00   01          97/98  98/99 99/00 '00  '01
1. Self-financina Ratio                    43.7%   49.4%  30%     35%            26.5%  26.6%  22%    16%   43%
2. Numberofnewclientscontacted              15      18     30    35               16     34    28   285   376
3. Number of conacts signed:                 6       7      8    1
Research contracts                   4      6      8     10               7      11     9    11   9
CTruaining                          12      12     12    12               2      3      4     1   2
Training:                 ~~~    ~~~75  75  25  25              6       1 1    9
Mateuial analysis:                                                       3 12          26
4. No. of contracts successfully completed:  5      7      8     10               6       7     9
Research contracts:                  I     8       8    10                        5     4
Consultancy:                        12      12    12    12               6       11     9
Training:                           75     75     25    25   25          32      34    26
Ma'.eda anagys:si 
2300    2900   1500  2000             890    1217  1156   844 1616
5. Rev.enue ge~neratAd firm teGh sAven.aes  f   
0-.43   0.49   0.30  0.35           0.26    0.26   0.21  0.17  0.28
6. Overall income to expenditure rato
7. Number of technologies licensed           I              2    2
150    300      15   50               15      15
I8. Revenue generated from technobly
licensing
480    510     200   100                            80   15  15
19. Value of production from commercialized |
1     2                             2    2
10. Number of laboratories accredited  |
IMNuMt='4'I3MV~ I 0I T I | CI II
STRENGTHENING (MSS-LIPI)



1. Self-financing Ratio              96/97 97/98 98/93 99/00 '00 01     196197 97/98 98/99 99/00 00 '01
I2. Number of companies directl      11i%  8%     11%    13%  15% 18%    11%  8.2%    8.2%  10%   10% 11%
contacted
13. Number Of DroDosas submitted      25   25     75     250 300 400     1 - 14       75     200  300 500
4. Number of contracts signed        10     5     10     20   29   40      -  2      12     5   21   11
5. Number of companies informed       5     10     2      8    9    16     -         2      1    5   6
1250 400    400   1000 1125 1500         62    258    700  8S0  15
IV. SEMARANG INSTITUTE -MOIT
97/98  98/99  99/00   00   01         97/98  98/99  99/00  00  '01
1. Self-financing Rato                58%    63%    57%     57%   57%       85%    71%    64%    92%  57%
2. No. of New Clients               | 30     45    60       70   80         52     46     38    60   120
3. No. of Contract actually signed (design  70  85  100     110 120        145    355    293   350  410
engineering, testing, technology
development, consultancy)
4. No.ofContractsuccessfullycompleted  70    85    100     110  110         145   264     53    40  390
5. Revenue generated (million nupiahs)  1156  1491 2003   2074 2100        1949  1393   1299  1554  1687
6. Total Expenditure (million rupiahs)*  1981  2431  283   3001 3359       3032     2450  i912  1912  2316
17. Income to Expenditure Ratio      | 0.58  0.63  0.57   0.69  0.63        0.66  0.57   0.68  0.68  0.72
8. No. of Technology licensed                1     1       1   1
9. Revenue generated from Tecnnoiogy       10    10        10  10
licensing( million nupiahs)
1 u. N4o. of patents fliied in nationaiy    1    1        1   1I                            I      2
11. No. of laboratories accredited nationally  1   1        1   1                    progress progress
STANDARDS (PUSTAN) - MOlT          98/99    99/00     '00  '01           98/99    99/00     '00  '01
1. No. of co. in quality awareness program  3000  3000                       3163     3163 completed (C) C
2. No. of co. implementing quality programs  600  600                          6       _ _            C
3 No nfrn seekinno IOnn mrtifi.in   I    4        40                            40     40       C      C
through ITDP supported KAN Program
(b). Trainings of Extension Agents &
Establishing Outreach Centers         Done                                Do
1. Market Study completed/outreach
program planned                       Done                                Done
2. MSTQ Extension Agents trained          800    800                         865       891        C     C
3. No. of SMIs assisted by agents
(c). Upgrading Laboratory Management &  Done    All 5                        Done    All 5        C     C
Intercomparison Testing
1. Preparation of strategic plans for 5 labs.  All 5  All 5                          All 5        C     C
-23 -



2. No. of abs wtthin acceptable limits Of  3     All 5                                  All 5         C     C
inter-comparison
3. No. of labs In conformlty with ISO/IEC         5                                     C            C      C
Guide 25/DSN01
4. No. of bbs Intemationally recogntzed           5                                       4           C     C
and/or accredited
5. No. of tabs nationally recognized andhor
accredited
The numbers are cumulatve
vI iNST!n ITF FOR RP.&  OF CHFMIGAL
INDUSTRY (IRDCI) - MOIT             97/98  98/99  99/0   '00     01      97i98  98/99   99/00  '00    '01
I F. Fnancig Ratio                      36.6 % 34.9%   49.1%  36.3%  24.7%     57.7%   45.5%  49.1%  36.3%  24.7%
12. Number of new dlent contacted for |     80   80      90    80     70        70     54     94      67    90
business linkage                     .
3. Numberofcontradssrted                   45   40      50    55     so         37       10    79     49    72
4. Number of contracts successfully       45    40      40   50     45           22      9     67    43     70
completed
829  1500   1766 1143.8 1019.8       2107    1360  2033   1267 1164.6
5. Revenue generated (Rp. m)
2266   3406 4090   3326   4582        3650    3270  4139   3494  4706
6. Total income (Rp. m)
0.37   0.41   0.49 0.36   0.24          0.58   0.41   0.49  0.36  0.24
7. Income to expenditure ratio (%)
8. Number of Technology lcensed                               2     2                    1             4      1
340    500    450                  85     347    536   275
9. Revenue generated from technology
licensing (Rp. m)
1 0. Number of laboratories accreaitea    1      1      1     5     5                                        5
-natonally                              1      1      1     4     4
-intemationally
AGENCY FOR ASSESSMENT AND
APPLICATION OF TECHNOLOGY (BPPT)
VIl. TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT (TBIS)       99 99s              200001|            98/99       99/00     2000/01
1 Self-financing ratio                   5%        7.5%        lU'%i1           5%         4%         i3%
2. Business Development                  0          200       250                0         190       200
1~~-     AA  rlf~.0                              55         70                0          74        70
4. IP Management (patent)
5. Marketng Communicatons               1,000      2000       3000              0         2,000      2500
6. Operator Autonomy                     50%        50%        .75%             50%         50%        50%
2000          2001                    2000          2001
17 DIP (Dev.Budget)                             3'$,32R                      1       35    0       6
3354 528,000                6983569833,514
8. DIK (Routtne Budget)                        63,289,928   86853014                  63,289,928    86,853,014
9. DIKS+DURK (Contract Research                11,791,037   10963877                  11,791,037    15,530,755
DAPATI PROGRAM                       97/98   98/99   99/00  00/01            97/98   98/99   99/00  00/01
(i) No. of Contracts sgned                0      10       70     130             0      4        56     148
(iJ)No.r     tdoo .......wd s                                |                                           |4  8
End of project
Note: i. Some indicators were designed only during project implementation and wee thefore not in the original SAR. Also, projected numbers
could be difrerent during project implementation since additional infbrmation was available to refine the original projection.
2. During CY 2000, OI changed FY from April-Mamh to January-December. As a result, information contained in 200(1 is only for 9 months from
April to December.



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
IMSTQ                                                4.70           3.76             80
DAPATI                                              14.40           5.34            37
R&D Mgmt                                            32.60          28.22           86.5
Institutional Strengthening                         5.00           4.61           92.2
Totai Baseiine Cost                                 56.70         41.93
Physical Contingencies                              2.20
Price Contingencies                           |     2.00   jj
Total Project Costs        |   60.90                  I i
Total Flnancing Required             60.90          41.93   |
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Proruremeht Method
ExpendIture Categry-      ICB          N_            , te2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
---- v~%tner
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)   1    (0.00)   I   (0.00)      (0.00)
12. Goods                    8.84     |    0.00    1    7.74    1    0.16     |   16.74
I                       1    (7.95)       (0.00)       (5.30)        (0.00)  1   (13.25)
13. Services            I    0.00          0.00        44.20         0.00     |  44.20
L Mlsenllnneoun             (0.00)        (0.00)       (33.69)      (0.00)'      (33.69)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
L I                     I    (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
I' Mlsce'ganeous            (0.00) ).00           1    0.00.00)  _  _.00_       (0.00)
6. Misceiianeous        j    0.00                  j     .00         U.U0    j     .00 
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I (0.00)  0 ( 00)  (3 . 99) I  (°  °0   (° °
Total                j     8.84    |    0.00         51.94   J    0.16         60.94
0                |   ~~~~~~~~~(7.95)  (0.00)   (38.99)       (0.00)       (46.94)



Project Cost by.. Pr       .cur.m.n A0 rrangemen,sLC 1/A.--111 -OL  CCI  4- Atc, /1 IC!4D;II;At r.rU..;IslAIL
f   Expenditure Category  I               Procurement Method             N. B .   1 Tota !    G
-_ _  -_ -_I          -  _NCB                    Other 2     _  _ __  _
|1. Works                 |     0.00     I    0.00    I     0.00    I     0.00    I    0.00    I
II                             (° °°)    I   (°-°°)   I    (° °°)   I    (° °°)   I   (° °°)   I
12.             GoodI          112.77    1    0.86 1  I     1 3!           1     I I   Q1AI
3. Se s           ((12.77         0.86)       (1.65         (0.00)     _ (15.28)
,J. QteFVI%;t%                                v. Y)   I 21.57            (0.30       (22.6
(21.57)        (0.29)       (0.80)        ((.00)       (22.66)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.56          (.00          0.56
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.56)        (0.00)       (0.56)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       34.34          1.15          3.01          3.43         41.93
(31.d          (1.!5 (I3.01)        (      ° °°I ') !) (38.50)
" Figures in pa.renthesiq are the amronts to be finaneed by the Bank Loan. All costs inriudep rnthigencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of thie project management ofi-ce, training, technical assistance services, and incremenial operating costs reiated to (i)
managing the project, and (fi) re-lending project funds to local goveniment units.
Proigect Financing by rnmnpnnnt /in I st p: millinn aeniuivalnt)n
I  (Ci1,imflT1pnt  I  Annraisnl Fqtimate          A'tuAVI/ILtpt Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
|____________________ |Bank       Govt.    CoF.      Bank      Covt.     CoF.    Bank   Covt. | CoF.
MSTQ                    4.40      0.80      0.00      3.07      0.69              69.8   86.3   0.0
DIAPATI                  8.40     0.00      6.20      5.04  0I00         ).3(!    60.0   0.0    4.8
R&D Management          29.80     5.80      0.00     26.26      1.96              88.1   33.8   0.0
Institutional Steghnn   4.40       1.!0     0.00      4.09      0.52             93.(!   47.3   0.0
|TOTAL               | 47.00      7.70      6.20     38.50  j   3.17     0.30     81.9 | 41.2 | 4.8
Co.F is Industry contribution



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle       |          No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
( * ,   F.rPnnnmist I FMR Ptc.)      I                  I..n+  1
|______________Month/Year    |Count           Specialty                   . ..Progres      Objective
identificationiPreparation
October/1993                 3    1 Policy & Institutional Issues
Specialist, 1. Metrology &
Standards Specialist, I R&D
Snecialist
April/1994                   3    1 Policy & Institutional Issues
Specialist, I Metrologv &
Standards Specialist, I R&D
Specialist
November/1994                4    1 Policy & Institutional Issues
Specialist, I Metrology &
Standards Specialist, I R&D
Specialist, I Consultant
February/1995                5   1 Policy & Institutional Issues
Specialist, I Metrology &
Standards Specialist, i R&D
Specialist, 2 Consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
June/1995                    5    1 Policy & Institutional
Issues Specialist, I
Metrology & Standards
Specialist, I R&D Specialist,
I Consultants, I Operations
l                  l             I ~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
Supervision                                  Officer
June/96                      4    1 Policy & Institutional           S             S
Issues Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Metrology & Standards
Specialist, I Project
Implementation Specialist
I        ~~~November~/96   1           .      Iruoiicy C.TlosILUtnl Issues  I  S US 
Specialist, I Metrology & '
Standards SnpecialiQt I Pr-ject
Pi-. niqrv/97                2   Implementation Specialist
I   Februa ry/97  1          2   1 ! POlicY & Instittitiona! lIses   S             S
Specialist, I Project
Implementation Specialist
November/97                  4    1 Team Leader, I RSI Sector        S             S
Coordinator, I R&D Specialist, I
MSTQ Specialist
March/99                     4    1 Financial Specialist, I RSI      S             S
Sector Coordinator, I R&D
Specialist, I MSTQ Specialist
October/99       |           5    1 Financial Specialist, 2          S             S
- 28 -



| Procurement Specialists, I R&D |
Specialist. I MSTQ Specialist
August/00                    4    1 Financial Specialist, I          S             S
Procurement Specialist, I
Disbursement Analyst, I R&D
Specialist
June/01                      4    1 Financial Specialist, I          S             S
Procurement Specialist, i
Disbursement Analyst, I R&D
Specialist
11CR
March/02                     2    1 Task Manager, R & D
Specialist
(I) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks     |        US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation  I            124.3                       310.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     82.8                       207.2
Supervision                               96.2                        240
ICR                                        9.6                         4.8
Total                                    312.9                       806.0
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(1=-figh- SU=Suhstantial M=Modest. N=Negligible; NA=Not Annlicable)
Rating
Fn Macro policies                         OH    O SU OM    ON    *NA
Oii Sector Policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N   *NA
n Physical                                O H   O SU *M    O N   ONA
LI Financial                              O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
O Institztional Development               Q H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
El Environmental                          O H   O SU O M   O N   * NA
Social
LI Poverty Reduction               O H   O SU O M    O N   * NA
I Gendler                          O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Li Private sector development             0 H   O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
El Public sector nianagement              0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Rnnk and Bonrrnwor Perfnrmance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
I Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
F-i ..r....-                                             Lie' -h C    II r     LiIII
L...J  \09CIVOIJlV                                        A 40  l I  '.  LI '3 i IL
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
LI Preparation                                       OHS OS        O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              0 HS O S      0  U   0 HU
OlI Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
FO Overall                                            OHS OS OU O HU
- 31 -



IAnnex 7. LJi'st of S-upporting IJocut-ien'Ls
1. Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated March 15, 2002;
5. Consolidated Report on the Evaluation and Monitoring of ITDP, dated February 2002, prepared by the
National Developing Planning Agency;
6. Mid-Term Report on the Evaluation and Monitoring of ITDP, dated August 15, 2001, prepared by the
Agency for Industrial and Trade Research and Development; Ministry of Industry and Trade;
7. Indonesia: Industrial Technology Development for a Competitive Edge, dated December 1996 (Report
No. 18816), by Darius Mans, Sr. Industrial Economist, EA3IP, World Bank.
8. Staff Appraisal Report for Indonesia: Industrial rechnology Development Project dated November
20, 1995 (Report No. 14900-IND)
- 32 -









!  M@,YANM4 @IcA4I 0 A                                                                                                  INDONESIA
r'         \~~~~~~~~~~VI'EPACIFIC'                                                                   .-     MAIN ROADS
Andiaman    ~                                                                          'II~PNS0                                   SELECTE.D CITIES AND TOWNS
Sea]                ulf (  (uffof                                                                                          0 '  OCRAN  |  PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
ThiIland                                Slu                                                                *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
THAILAND                                                               SUILI-~                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
C     tk                                                   u          Seo~-~    -, S                   PRO- INTERNATIONAIL BOUNDARIES
7 ~~~~~~~_\,                             0                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~C       I D I ACEH   I IJAWA RARAT  22 KALIMtANTAN TttMUR
2 SUtmATERA UTkRA  12 JAWA TE GMN  22 SU-AES1 U'TARA
2 ZAD       1 Dl. YOGNAKARTA  24 OcRONTALO
Bcinda,                                                               /On -10                                         RIAU ARCHIPEIAGO'  14 JAWA DIODER  25 SULAWESI TENGAH
BtindslA ceh},                            A                                nr.N,,\ S                                A,RUNEl  t   4 StIMAIMRA RARAT T  5 KAU  26 SULAWESI SELATAN
A                ERUNI~ELn                                                    Mal JA51I NUSA TENGGARA BARAT  27 SULAWES TENGGARA
.1  ~~~~~,S                             _ ll'~                                               6 ERNGKDUW 1"TA 7 NUSAJDNGGARATDAUR  2B MALUKU UJAPA
\-z *Kdon                                                 7 9  /  w  Natuntl<)\   /4  st f _  >   Celet1es  o Tatud  SIUMAuERA SEAMAN AT TEPA   29 MALUKU
.'            ~~~~~~~~~Cel ebes  0TIud       LA DNG     19 KALLYLANTAN BARAT  32 PAPUA IIRIAN JAYA)
M.&nf                I  Ntm.  \                                                     I    S.         S  BNKA-BEUIJ',4G  20 KALUNA ITAN TENGAH
snOeuluet              a  Anont't9 ~ato*au Istnds                            7  >  2<t t  fnan Sec i3   10 )ANITEN   21 KALIMANTAN SELATAN
L        Ss kon5R9 u1 E N efn g eaD2                                                d 4, Bd Sec 
Sin,etIt$2n                        Riau Is-ndN                                                 23                  *t-d ° tfl
gf   _    X     X~                                                     W%b Itlp  I'-n-  O1                       Arc     :15 a   
|N        <~>      G    NPOIE                              221   <                MonNd O5,
Nias'\) ,so  \ t  Fa                             A L I- XorsAtdrai                           TeDI da t e                         Carp                 w
rn         U4 :Lqn>                     7he Poon,ottionok                  SonP,orIndo           I */  28 '-6
"S.8"6    'a           i .,- ' Bo.mn0  ntor                   htip 20  &a                                     U R     I/
~~II~dOfl0  ~   ~   gkaIpiRo~g  ~\ ~kPalangkoraya0          L               S                  ie             an
26  n~~          *             Ceroat~~~  y~fa*falcomJoyapur
-~Benguu .                                                        \~~~   dari                                    0 R, P I AIN . AYA'1  <
Java   Se aD        Ujung Pcindang       Muno    I                     Ka,   .,
Engg-',  La                                                        B~~~~~~5  M, ,  oino 0                          I
~  o'. honorArafuSeSe
(- \~~~~:N~~~ONEsI/t..  INDIA   N     0   CEA ~~~~~~~~~~~~N  D   0E 
< IS'  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9-                                                                                       Carnentaria~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A> ~ mLi,a
Th,,~on  an proanei b  theFla  Oeign  oilof he W,IdBan
I N D I A N  0 C E A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~020'









IMAGING
Te:o.f No.:        23742
I Type:      RI



