                                    Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                    ReportNo.: 32733




             PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                                    INDONESIA

           INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                 (LOANNO. 3972)


                                     July 5,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =IndonesianRupiah (Rp)
           1994           U S $ l.oo             2,161            2000                              8,422
                                                                                 US$1.oo
                                                                                 US$l.oo
           199.5          U S $ l.oo             2,249            2001                              10,261
           1996                                                   2002                              9,311
                          US$l.oo
                          US$l.oo                2,342                           US$1.oo
           1997                                  2,909            2003           US$1.oo            8,577
           1998           US$1.oo               10,014            2004           US$l.oo            8,939
           1999           US$l.OO                7,855


Abbreviations andAcronyms
AFNOR              Association FranqaGede Normalisation
BISM               SemarangIndustrial R&D Institute
BMI-USA            Business Management International
BPPT               Agency for the AssessmentandApplication of Technology
CSIRO              CommonwealthScientific and Industrial ResearchOrganization
DAPATI             Technology Services Matching Grant Scheme
                   (Dana Kemitraan PeningkatanTeknologi Industri)
FDI                Foreign direct investment
GDP                Gross domesticproduct
ICR                Implementation CompletionReport
IEC                International ElectrotechnicalCommission
IRDCI              Institute of ChemicalIndustry
I S 0              International StandardsOrganization
I T                Information technology
ITDP               Industrial TechnologyDevelopmentProject
KAN                National Accreditation Committeeof Indonesia
KIM                National Metrology Center
KIST               Korea Instituteof Science and Technology
LIP1               IndonesianInstitute of Sciences
MOIT               MinistryofIndustryandTrade
MST                Ministryof Science andTechnology
MSTQ               Metrology, Standards, Testingand Quality
NATA               National Associationof TestingAuthorities
NCL                National ChemicalLaboratory
OED                OperationsEvaluation Department
PAU                Policy Advisory Unit
PMIU               Project Management and ImplementationUnit
PPAR               ProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport
PUSTAN             Center for Industrial Standards
R&D                Researchand development
RDCAC              Researchand DevelopmentCenter for Applied Chemistry
SEW                ResearchPlanning System
SMEs               Small and medium-scaleenterprises
STMP               Science and TechnologyManagementPolicy
TBDO               TechnologyBusinessDevelopmentOffice
TNO                NetherlandsOrganizationfor Applied Scientific Research(NederlandseOrganisatievoor
                   ToegepastNatuunvetenschappelijkOnderzoek)


FiscalYear
Government:                April 1-March31
                           July 1- June 30




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 :  Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment               : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group          : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                                   : Ms.Kris Hallberg

   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independenceinevaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess andto verifythat the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex;thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 Executive Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate
 important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers'comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                         111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings          ..............................     '..................................................................................   v

 Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................        v

 Preface  ..............................................................................................................................            ..
                                                                                                                                                  vi1

 Summary     ...........................................................................................................................           ix

 1 Background
  .                      ..................................................................................................................         1

 2 ObjectivesandDesign
  .                                          ..................................................................................................     2

         Objectives................................................................................................................. 2
         Components.............................................................................................................. 2
         ImplementationArrangements ................................................................................. 4
         Quality at Entry....................................................................................................... -4
         Monitoring and Evaluation.....................................................................................                            -6
 3 ImplementationExperience
  .                                                      ........................................................................................   7

 4 Achievement of Outputs and Outcomes
  .                                                                          ....................................................................   9

        MSTQ Services......................................................................................................... 9
         SMEAccess to Technology Services........................................................................                                   9
        R&LI Institutions....................................................................................................                     11
        Industrial Technology Policy.................................................................................                             13

 5 Ratings
  .            ........................................................................................................................           13

         Outcome................................................................................................................                  -13
        Sustainability.,........................................................................................................                  14
        Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                                15
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                        15
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                           16
 6 LessonsLearned
  .                            .........................................................................................................          16

 Annex A   .Key     PerformanceIndicators                           ..........................................................................    19

 Annex B  .BasicData            Sheet         ..............................................................................................      23


.Ths evaluation i s basedon a March2005 mission by Tyler Biggs (consultant). who preparedthe report; the
task manager was Kris Hallberg
administrative support   .               . The      report was editedby William Hurlbut. andRose Gachmaprovided

iv

                                                        V



PrincipalRatings
                                       ICR*                     ICR Review*                          PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                        Likely                         Likely                          Unlikely
Institutional Development            Modest                         Modest                           Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory

 The Implementation CompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediateOperations Evaluation Department(OED) productthat seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible
Project                          Task Manager/Leader                 Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                                     Sector Director
 Appraisal                             Darius Mans                  Peter R. Scherer              Marianne Haug
 Completion                             Lily Uy Hale                Amanda S. Carlier                Mark Baird
                                                                          (Acting)


Preface

The Industrial Technology Development Project (ITDP, Loan 3972-ND) inthe amount
o fUS$47.0 millionwas approved onDecember 21, 1995, and made effective on March
18, 1996. Because o f the Asian financial crisis, the Government o f Indonesia launched a
series o f debt portfolio restructurings which affected all IBRD loans. As a result, the loan
was reduced to US$38.5 million after partial cancellation. At the time the project closed
on December 31,2001, the loanhad disbursedUS$32.63 million, 84.7 percent o fthe
reduced loan amount.

This evaluationi s based on reviews o f the Implementation CompletionReport, the Staff
Appraisal Report, legal documents, project files, discussions with Bank staff involved
withthe project, andinterviewswith relevant stakeholders inIndonesia (government
officials, public R&Dinstitutes, representatives o f the private sector, and project
beneficiaries).

An OEDmissionto Indonesiato carry out an evaluationof ITDP took place March 15-
30,2005, several years after the project has closed, to provide input to OED's upcoming
review o f the Bank's support for small-and-medium-scale enterprises. Itwas expected
the evaluationwould impart valuable lessonsfor governments anddonors indeveloping
technology support institutions andpolicies and inpromoting innovative business
development services for small enterprises.

As part o fthe data-gathering exercise inIndonesia, abrieftelephone surveywas
conducted o f a sample o f recipients o f the ITDP matching grants scheme to assess the
impact o f this component o fthe project. Extensive interviewswere also conducted with
managers o fpublic R&D institutes and other Govemment agencies involved inITDP. In
addition, detailed discussions were heldwith representatives o fthe private sector that
were targeted as the primary beneficiaries o f the project, including local consulting firms
that provided services to the matching grants scheme. The mission appreciates the
courtesies and support givenbythe R&D institutes and Government agencies inthis
evaluation. Following standard procedures, copies o f the draft PPARwas sent to relevant
government officials for their review and comments. No comments were received.


                                                      i x


Summary

The IndustrialTechnology DevelopmentProject (ITDP), supported by an IBRDloano f $38.5
million, was approved on December 21, 1995, and closed on December 31,2001. The overarching
objective o f the project was to enhance the competitiveness o f Indonesian industry, especially
small- andmedium-scaleenterprises (SMEs). Specific project objectives were to (a) provide public
andprivate technology services, inparticular through an improvedsystem o f industrialmetrology,
standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ); (b) facilitate the access to public andprivate technology
service providers, particularly by SMEs, through a matching grants program; (c) strengthenpublic
technology support institutions, inparticular by increasing the self-financing o fpublic research and
development (R&D) institutions; and (d) improve the formulation and coordination o f industrial
technology policies.

While the objectives o f ITDP were substantially relevant, several design problems reduced the
project's ability to realize these objectives. First, the Government's plan to increase the
commercialization o fpublic R&Dinstitutionswas hamperedbybudgetary restrictions placedon
these institutions. Second, it was a mistake to tack on support for SMEsto the work o f these
general-purpose R&D institutions, whose principal clientele is larger, more sophisticated firms.
Third, the design o fthe project's matching grants programwas not inaccordwith thebasic
principles requiredfor successful implementationo f such public subsidy schemes, and therefore had
little chance o frealizing the objective o f raisingtechnology transfer investment to more
economically optimum levels.

The output collapse causedbythe Asian financial crisis in 1998 ledto a restructuringo fthe overall
Bank portfolio inIndonesia. Despite the crisis, activities under the MSTQ, R&D management, and
institutional strengtheningobjectives o fthe project were implementedas planned. Implementation
problems did arise under the matching grants component, as firms were strugglingto survive inthe
crisis, which often meant less attention to and fewer resources for technological upgrading. The
matching-grants scheme also hadimplementationproblems causedby inadequate supervision o f the
scheme.

Outcomes varied across objectives, but taken as a whole, the overall Outcome o f the project was
ModerateIy Satisfactory.

0    The objective ofimproving Indonesia's systemo f industrialMSTQ was substantially achieved.
     Project performance indicators show that the number o f calibration labs at the Institute o f
     National Metrology accredited doubled and the percent o f calibration labs showing acceptable
     inter-comparison tests increased substantially. The Center for Industrial Standards also managed
     to get four o f five labs intemationally recognized and into conformance with I S 0 requirements.
     However, only 27 out o f the targeted 40 SMEs slated for I S 0 9000 certification under the
     Center's subcomponent for quality systems improvement were certified.
0    The achievement o f the objective of facilitating SME accessto technology services was
     negligible due to problems with the designand implementationo f the matching grants scheme.
     The scheme failed to generatethe requisite economic benefits, including indirect market-
     development benefits. It would appear that this public subsidyscheme didnot create enough
     economic benefits to justify its public costs.

                                                     X



     The achievement ofthe R&Dmanagement objective was modest. Self-financingratios of
     supported R&Dinstitutions show increases intwo institutions and substantial declines intwo
     others. Failure to realizeprojected levels o f self-financing canbe attributed inlarge part to
     government legal restrictions on budgets o f the R&Dinstitutions, which reduced incentives to
     do business with the private sector.
     The objective ofimproving industrial andtechnologypolicy formulationwas only modestly
     achieved. The Master Plan and studies that ITDP supported were completed, but limited
     capacity was left behindto carry on this work inthe fbture.

The InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact o ftheprojectwas Modest. Supported R&Dinstitutions
didgain from their relationships withvarious twinningpartners interms o fleadership development,
improving IT management and communication systems, and strengthening research planning during
the years o fthe project. MSTQ institutes also upgradedtheir labs.

Sustainabilityofproject benefits is Unlikely. The ITmanagement systemssupported bythe
project are not beingmaintained; insome cases, scientific equipment procuredunder the project
cannot berepaired or replaced for lack o fresources. The laboratories that were supposed to become
internationally accredited have not continuedtheir international accreditation program. And
innovative researchplanningpractices set up under ITDP have been continuedinvery few
institutions. Similarly, outreach centers under the MSTQ objective are no longer beingadequately
fundedand extension agents to runthese centers are not beingtrained. Finally, the outcome o f
support to the Ministryo f Industryand Trade to strengthen its Policy Advisory Unit was also short-
livedbecausethe unit was disbanded.

BankPerformancewas Satisfactory.The maindeficiencies -shortcomings insupervision, especially
for the matching grant scheme-were not severe enough to warrant a lowerrating. Borrower
Performancewas also Satisfactory.The only areawhere the government failed to perform
effectively was insettinga goodpolicy environment for project outcomes.

Project experience offers the following lessons:

0   Industrialtechnology development projects aimed at commercializing public R&Dinstitutions
    should be undertaken only inenvironments where the budgets o f these institutions are not
    restricted by Government regulations.
0   It is a mistaketo add support for SMEs to the mandate o f general R&Dinstitutions whose
    principal clients are larger, more sophisticated enterprises.
0   Matching grant schemes should be designed to maximize returns to public resources investedin
    them, underthe sameprinciple that applies to any public investment.
0   Projects to develop public R&D institutions shouldpay closer attention to recurrent costs, as the
    benefits quickly diminish ifthe Government cannot meet future maintenance andrepair costs.




                                                                      Ajay Chhibber
                                                                      Acting Director-General
                                                                      Operations Evaluation

                                               1


 1.      Background

 1.1     By 1996, Indonesiahadexperienced 25 years ofrapideconomic growth anda
 fifteen-foldjump inper capita income, placing it inthe ranks o fmiddle-income countries,
 The manufacturing sector hadbeen a leading contributor to this extraordinary rise in
 GDP along with the country's oil exports. Stimulated by a series o f "deregulation
 packages," introducedto dismantle restrictions put inplace duringthe previous period o f
 import substitution, a significant expansion inmanufacturinginvestment andrapid
 growth innon-oil exports occurred inthe late 1980s andearly 1990s, which helpedto
 diversifythe economy away from aheavy dependenceon oil. An important element of
 this investmentboomwas alarge increase inforeigndirect investment(FDI) from the
 East Asiannewly-industrializingcountries. FDIrose from almost nothing in 1983 to
 about $40billion ininvestment approvals by 1996, bringingwith it a large increase in
 technology transfer from more advanced countries. The structure o fmanufacturing
 shiftedfrom beinginward-orientedandcapital intensive to beingexport-oriented and
 labor intensive.Manufactured exports grew 30 percent annually over the period,
unemployment fell substantially, andpoverty declined.

 1.2     Despite this impressive performance, significant problems remained inthe
manufacturing sector that jeopardized future growth prospects. Manufactured exports
remained concentrated at the low end o f the market, industry structure continued to be
immature, and average productivity was low. Substantial progress hadbeenmade in
acquiringtechnological capabilities inpublic sector "strategic industries" such as aircraft
manufacturing, shipbuilding, electronics, telecommunications equipment, and steel, but
the science andtechnology spending that went to these strategic industrieshadlittle
impact on the technological development and competitiveness o f the country's main
export sectors. Thus, the main challenges facing the country were to further diversify
manufactured exports into more skill-intensiveproduct areas and to raise enterprise
productivitythrough management improvements and technology upgrading.

 1.3     Intemationalmarkets were increasinglyrequiringfirms to compete on more than
just low labor cost advantages. Product development capabilities, fast delivery, andtotal
quality -includingthe ability to meet customers' rigorous quality standards and obtain
I S 0 9000 certification -were becoming important determinants of competitive
advantage. The experience o fthe newly industrializingAsian countries showed that
effective, government-supported systems o f metrology, standards, testing and quality
control (MSTQ), technology extension services, and applied research and development
(R&D)were keyto enhancing industrialcompetitiveness.

1.4      There was aneedto reorient the work o f Indonesia'spublic technology
institutions to better support the private sector inupgrading its technological capability to
improve competitiveness and to make a faster transition into more skill-intensive exports.
The major priorities were to focus the public R&D institutions more on transferring and
diffusingbest-practice technologies requiredby industry, strengthen MSTQ services, and
improve the coordinationo ftechnology and industrial development policies and
programs.

                                               2


2.       ObjectivesandDesign

OBJECTIVES

2.1      The overarchingobjectiveofthe ITDP was to enhancethe competitiveness o f
Indonesian industry, especially small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs). Specific
project objectives were to (a) provide public and private technology services, inparticular
through the systemo f industrialmetrology, standards, testing, and quality (MSTQ); (b)
facilitate the access to public andprivate technology service providers, particularly by
SMEs, through amatching grants program; (c) strengthenpublic technology support
institutions, inparticular by increasing the self-financingo fpublic research and
development (R&D) institutions; and (d) improve the formulation and coordination o f
industrialtechnology policies.

2.2      Project objectives were of substantial relevance to Indonesia` development
priorities. As noted above, firms had a realneedto improve productivity to compete at
home and abroad. The private sector was poised to significantly increase capital
accumulation, following the reforms intrade and investmentpolicies o f the 1980s and
early 1990s. Finally, Indonesia had a public R&D infrastructurethat needed reform. To
make an effective contributionto increased industrialproductivity, public R&D
institutions neededto become more private sector oriented and demand driven. These
development needs were recognized inthe Bank's 1995 Country Assistance Strategy,
which highlightedthe goal ofproductivityimprovement, and emphasized more private
provisiono f supporting infrastructure andtechnical services to assist inthis process.


COMPONENTS

2.3      The ITDP hadfour maincomponents, corresponding to the four objectives of the
project:

0   ImprovingMSTQ (appraisal estimate $4.4 million, revisedestimate $3.07 million,
    actual cost $3.07 million).

         9 Technicalassistanceto theNationalMetrologyCenter (MST-KIM)inthe
            form o f a twinning arrangement with Australia's primary metrology center
            (CSIRO) to buildits management and institutional capacity, as well as
            laboratory equipment to upgrade the technicalproficiency of its calibration
            laboratories under the National Calibration System(JKN).

        9 Technical assistanceto the Center for IndustrialStandards (MST-PUSTAN)
            to hold quality-awareness seminars for SMEs, develop outreach centers in
            eight regions o fthe country, train staff inMinistry o fIndustryandTrade
            (MOIT) R&D institutes as MSTQ extension agents, and develop a cooperative
            program with the Indonesian Chamber o f Commerce ( W I N )to conduct
            programs inquality awareness (including I S 0 9000 certification).

                                            3


      9 Technical assistanceto PUSTANfrom anintemationallyaccredited
          laboratory to improve the performance o f five MOIT standards-testing
          laboratories by upgradingtheir management capability and their ability to
          conduct inter-comparison testing, with the objective o f gaining intemational
         recognition and accreditation.

0 FacilitatingSME access to technologyservices (appraisal estimate $8.4 million,
  revised estimate $5.04 million, actual cost $1.34 million). ITDPprovided finds to
  establish a matching-grants scheme to subsidize the purchase o fnew technologyby
  SMEs and increase their awareness o fbuyingtechnology consulting services from the
  market. The scheme was originally designed to provide grants to 600 SMEs.

0 ImprovingR&D managementand increasingself-financingof R&Dinstitutions
  (appraisal estimate $29.9 million, revisedestimate $26.26 million, actual cost $26.60
  million). This component provided technical assistanceto:

      9 theAgency for theAssessment andApplicationofTechnology(BPPT), the
         IndonesianInstitute o f Sciences (LIPI), andMOIT to increase the
         commercializationo f Indonesia's R&D institutions (i.e., extemal eamings in
         the form ofresearchcontracts and science andtechnologyservices) andto
         upgrade the quality o f their services to SMEs.

      9 LIPIandBPPTthroughtwinningarrangementswithintemationallyreputed
         contract research institutions (CSTXO-Australia, KIST-Korea, BMI-USA,
         NCL-India, AFNOR-France, andTNO-Netherlands).The objective was to
         improve researchplanning, priority setting, andbusiness management systems
         by computerizinghumanresource management, financialmanagement, and
         project management.

      9 SelectedR&Dlaboratories, includingLIPI's ResearchandDevelopment
         Center for Applied Chemistry (RDCAC), andMOIT's R&D Instituteo f the
         Chemical Industry(IRDCI) and the Semarang IndustrialR&DInstitute
         @ISM).These laboratories wereto berestructuredto improvetheir delivery
         o f services to SMEs.

0Improvingindustrialtechnology policies(appraisal estimate $4.40 million, revised
  estimate $4.09 million, actual cost $4.09 million). This component providedtechnical
  assistanceto:

      9 theMOIT ScienceandTechnologyManagement andPolicyUnit,andthe
         Agency for IndustrialResearch andDevelopment.

      9 theScienceandTechnologyPolicyUnitofBPPTto improveindustrialand
         technology formulation andmonitor the impact o f technology programs.

      9 thePolicyAdvisoryUnitoftheAgency for IndustrialR&D(BPPIP)to design
         collaborative programs with the private sector for strengtheningindustrial

                                                4


             competitiveness, and to prepare the nextphase o fthe Government's
             deregulation program.

2.4      The output collapse causedbythe Asian financial crisis in 1998 causedthe Bank
to restructure the overall loanportfolio inIndonesia. For the ITDP, this resultedinthree
restructurings, with a cumulative cancellation o f $8.5 million. Scaling down the loan,
however, left the objectives and components inplace, as the cuts were made across the
board.

IMPLEMENTATION        ARRANGEMENTS

2.5
- each   The agenciesresponsible for implementingthe project -- BPPT, LIPI, andMOIT -
        established a ProjectManagement and ImplementationUnit (PMIU). A Central
PMIUwas also established to ensure coordinationand collaborationamong the project
components. This Central PMIUreported to a Steering Committee o f representatives o f
each o f the implementing agencies andthe private sector and was chairedby the
Indonesian Planning Commission (BAPPENAS). The National Metrology Center
(managed by LIPI) and the Center o f Industrial Standards (managed by MOIT) were
responsible for implementingthe MSTQ component. MOIT was responsible for
implementingthe matchinggrant scheme. MOIT, BPPT, andLIPIwere incharge of
implementingthe activities involvedinstrengtheningpublic R&Dinstitutions. And
MOIT and BPPT were responsible for the activities to improve industrial technology
policies.

QUALITY AT ENTRY

2.6      While the objectives o f the project were substantially relevant, there were several
problems that reduced the project's ability to achieve these objectives, and achieve them
efficiently. First, a centralobjective o f the ITDP was to commercialize Indonesia's public
R&Dinstitutionsbyincreasing self-financingthroughprivate research contracts andsales
o ftechnology services to the private sector. To accomplishthis, the Governmentplanned
to (i) the public R&D institutes the necessary incentives to become more demand
      give
driven and commercially oriented, and establish self-financing targets; (ii)   reduce
government controls to encourage R&Dinstitutions to bemore agile inrespondingto the
private sector; (iii) encourage the management o f R&Dinstitutions to become more
results oriented; and (iv) encourage more competition among public andprivate
technology providers.

2.7     Unfortunately, any chance o f increasing self-financing was hampered by the
budgetary restrictions the Government placedon these institutions, reducingtheir
incentiveto seek private funding. As far back as the Dutch colonialperiod, the
Government hadrestricted the activities andbudgetso fpublic agencies, limitingtheir
ability to interact with the private sector. A special exemption, known as Swadana,was
grantedto some research institutes anduniversities to exemptthem from complying with
these official budgetaryrestrictions. At the inceptiono f the project, public R&D institutes
operated under Government Decree 27, which allowed them to work directly with the
private sector, but, unlikepublic R&Dinstitutions inany other part of the world, they

                                                      5


were requiredto (i) all funds obtained from private activities with the Ministryo f
                          deposit
Finance, (ii)   anticipate andplan for these earnings a year inadvance, (iii) in          define
advance their budgetneeds under which these eamings could be spent, and (iv) seek prior
permissionto make any changes inthese plans. The Ministryo f Finance hadthe right to
reduce any self-financing plans and targets ofR&Dinstitutes, andthere were some cases
when it did.

2.8      The Government's budgetary restrictions wereknownto the Bankwhenthe loan
was appraised. Infact, according to knowledgeable sources interviewedinIndonesia, the
Bank delayed the loan for manymonths duringwhich discussions ensuedtrying to
persuade the Government to change these restrictions.' The Bank also sponsored a 2002
IntemationalWorkshop on Science and Technology (afier ITDPwas closed) to raise the
awareness o fhighgovemment officials on the importance o fSwadana for the public
R&Dinstitutions byshowcasing successful internationalexperience inthis area. Itisnot
clear why the workshop was not heldbefore the ITDP to raise official awareness about
the importance o f Swadana. I t i s also not clear why ITDP went ahead inthe presence o f
these budget restrictions or why the Bank didnot makethe loan conditional on changing
them. ManypeopleinIndonesia interviewedfor this PPARasked these questions. As one
official put it, "Why didn't the Bank use its leverage when the ITDP loanwas being
made to change these budgetary restrictions? Removing these restrictions would have
made a real difference.''

2.9      A second issue was the inconsistency betweenthe target populationo fthe ITDP -
- SMEs -- andthe usual clientele o fpublic R&Dinstitutes. The presumptionbehindthe
ITDP was that SME access to technology services couldbe enhanced by re-orienting the
public R&Dinstitutes towards servingtheir interests andby providing subsidies (via the
matching grant scheme) for SMEs to purchase these services. However, studies o fpublic
R&Dinstitutions around theworld (mostly done bythe Bank and available at the time
the ITDP was designed2)emphasize that it i s a mistaketo append support for SMEs to the
work o fthese general R&Dinstitutions, whose principal clientele i s larger, more
sophisticated firms. Most SMEs have different needs and lack the technicalpersonnel to
communicate effectively with sophisticated technical staff o fpublic R&Dinstitutions.
Specialized institutions that focus on SMEs are needed, which have dedicated services
that expose these small companies to the benefits o f change and give advice to solve
business problems. Itwas unanimous among the staff o fpublic R&D institutions
interviewed for this evaluation that most SMEs had limiteddemand for their services,
with the exception o fsome testing and training.

2.10     Finally, the matching grant scheme inthe ITDP had several designdefects. The
objective o f this component was to increase technology transfer investments made by



1. Inthe end, the restrictions were not changedandremainto this day. In2001, a new law was passed
giving more'financial flexibility to R&Dinstitutions, but the Ministry o f Finance has refusedto officially
recognize the new law and implement it.
2. See for example Goldman, M."Institutions andPolicies for Technology Development,'' World Bank
1995, and Goldman, Mand Ergas, H"Technology Institutions and Policies: Their Role inDeveloping
Technological Capability inIndustry," World Bank 1996.

                                                        6


 SMEs to more economically optimum levelsa3Ina technology subsidy scheme like the
 ITDP matching grants program, successful implementation, as inany public investment
 program, crucially depends on the ability to'select projects that give the biggest economic
 (social) return for the public dollar. To do this requires selecting projects with large
 economic (social) returns to the country, and funding only those projects that would not
 otherwise findprivate funding.

 2.11      The criteria for selecting grant recipients didnot explicitly set out these necessary
 and sufficient conditions for successful implementation. Therewas no mentionofthe
 importance o f not crowding out private sector funding, and no mention o f the importance
 of establishing a clear distinction between the private benefits to firms and the broader
 economic benefitsto society. The only explicit criteria for grant approval, apart from
 certain size, sector, and ownership requirements, were that grants be "demand driven"
 and selected on a first-come-first-served basis. Therewere differentlevels o f subsidy for
 firms inparticular locations and for innovative projects, which might have increased the
 economic impact, but the demand-driven, first-come-first-served instructiondiminished
 these possibilities substantially.

 2.12     It is thejob o fthe designers andmanagers o fpublicly-fundedsubsidy schemes,
 such as ITDP, to develop and apply eligibility criteriathat make it possible to elicit the
 "right" projects from firms andthento select from amongthese projects the ones with the
 highestpotential social benefits to society. Moreover, just as fundingthe "right" projects
 i s important for gettingthe biggest return for the public dollar, so also i s fimding the
 "right" firms. At a minimum, firms musthave amodicumo fplanning, technical, and
 financial capability to use public subsidiesproductively. There i s no mentiono f this issue
 inthe ITDPmatchinggrants scheme.

MONITORINGEVALUATION
                  AND

2.13      Several types o fperformance indicators were identifiedinthe beginning o f ITDP
to monitor implementationprogress andto evaluate project outcomes, andthese
indicators were tracked ineach year o f the project (Annex A). The most important
reported performance figures were checked and confirmed ininterviews inIndonesia
duringthe PPARmission. For the MSTQ component ofthe loan, indicators were set up
to measure changes inthe quality o f MSTQ institutes under the Instituteo f National
Metrology (KIM-LIPI),as well as changes inthe quality o f their services. The Center for
Industrial Standard's (PUSTAN) implementation progress under the MSTQ component
was also tracked by measuring indicators such as the number of firms receiving I S 0
certification and the number o f extension agents trained for the Outreach Centers. Inthe

~




3. The market often fails to support the socially optimum level o f technology transfer investment in
developing countries as there are market imperfections that cause private fums to under-invest inthese
activities. As with most public goods, a significant portion o f the benefit o ftechnology transfer cannot be
captured or "appropriated" bythe firmengaged inthe initial transfer activity. The benefits o f one firm's
technology transfer investment "spill over" to others that, without investing inthe new technology,
nevertheless learn about its results. Because o f such "spillovers," the economic (social) benefits o f
technology transfer are greater than the returns to an individual fmthat undertakes them. Inthis case a
subsidy (for example, inthe form ofa matching grant scheme) is requiredto bringtechnology transfer upto
more economically optimum levels.

                                               7


 case o f the public R&D institutes, indicators measured changes inself-financing ratios
 andvarious components o fthese ratios. And finally, for the matchinggrants scheme,
 indicators tracked the number of grants disbursed.

 2.14    Ingeneral, theproject's performance indicators were usefulinevaluating
 important aspects o fimplementationprogress andproject outcomes. The exceptioni s the
 informationprovided for the matching grants scheme. The number o f grants disbursed
 reveals something about whether internalproject implementationtargets were met, but
 provides no information about outcomes. The contractor's final report on the scheme
 provides detailed data on the types o f grants disbursedand characteristics o fthe firms
 that received them. It also contains limitedinformation on the firm's self-assessment o f
 the impact o fthe grant. However, there wereno follow-up studies ofthe matching grant
 scheme's impact. Inany case, unless there hadbeen directives to pay heed to
 additionality and economic benefits inmaking grants, the studies would not have focused
 on assessingthese outcomes.



 3.      ImplementationExperience

 3.1     The Asianfinancial crisis in 1998 created significant problems for
implementation across all components ofthe project. As noted earlier, the project was
restructured, with some project activities cancelled or scaled back. Delays in
implementation also ensuedon account o f the crisis, as there was a period o f inactivity in
the country that slowedprogress insome activities. Andthe sharp devaluationo fthe
rupiah inthe wake of the crisis also adversely affected the cost o f some activities,
causing budget shortfalls and delays inimplementingagencies.

3.2      The crisis playedapart inhinderingthe implementation o fthe matching grant
scheme. Firms faced a large decline inaggregate demand and a significant deprecation o f
the rupiah in 1998 as the scheme got underway. Inmany cases, SMEs found it difficult to
come up with the resources to finance their share o fthe matching grant and/or to hndthe
investments necessaryto complement the work o f the technicalconsultant funded by the
scheme.

3.3     A lack ofunderstandingonthe partofimplementingagencies o fthe Bank's
procurement guidelines, as well as the procurement plan for the project, also hindered
implementationo fthe project. Many unnecessary steps were taken andthere were delays
inprocurement resultingfrom weakprocurement skills. Therewas confusionover
differences inthe National Procurement Law (Keppres 16/1994) with the procurement
arrangements inthe Loan Agreement andthe Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Following
the IndonesianNational Procurement Law, procurement was often conducted under
national shopping and nationalcompetitive bidding, without prior consultation with the
Bank.

3$4     There were delays inimplementation o fthe matching grant scheme. The
management contractor was not hireduntil September 1997, more than a year after the
loanbecame effective. InApril 1998, the first five grant proposals were submitted for

                                                  8


approval to the scheme's Steering Committee and to the Bank, together with the
contractor's assessments o fthe proposals. Interviews inIndonesiawith Government,
Bankstaff, andpeopleinvolvedinmanagingthe matching grant scheme indicatethat it
took the Bank eleven months to approve these five initial grant proposal^.^ Itwas not
untilFebruary 1999,that the first technology project could start-almost a year after the
scheme was officially launched. Bythis time, one o f the firms that hadrequested these
grants hadwithdrawn its application. Inaddition, half o f the other grant applications that
had gone through the contractors' vettingprocess duringthe eleven-month delay were
withdrawn by frustrated SMEs. The long delay ingettingthese approvals hadbadly hurt
the image o f the scheme.

3.5      Interviews inIndonesiarevealed that the managers o f the scheme had difficulties
duringimplementationwith the target group of firms selected for the program. Smaller
enterprises didnot have the resources (or insome cases the desire) to pay their share o f
the cost-sharing grant for atechnical consultant. More generally, these enterprises had
much less technical and financial capability to acquire new technology and to work with
an expert technical consultant. The Bank's new eligibility requirements o fMarch 1999,
which specified three years o f audited financial accounts or tax retums, made it even
more difficult to work with these enterprises, as many small firms didnot have audited
accounts or tax returns. InOctober 1999,the management contractor requested that the
firm-size ceiling for grant eligibility be raisedto Rps 15 billion inannual sales (about
$1.5 millionat the current exchange rate). According the management contractor,
opening up the scheme to these higher-end, medium-sizedfirms not only increasedthe
number and quality ofproject applications, but also helpedto increase the successrate of
grant completion.

3.6      Disbursement problems also complicated implementation. The management
contractor could not establish its own disbursement system for paying grants.
Disbursement hadto follow Government rules andpayment processing hadto go through
a government organization. The Government changed this organization three different
times duringthe project (from the Treasury Office to the Directorate o f Budget and back
to the Treasury Office) and eachtime there were major delays ingetting grants paid.
Manydocuments hadto befiled ineachcase to getpayment, which took service
providers and scheme administrative time, and processing andpayment took, on average,
five to six weeks. Therewere also disputes about whether taxes shouldbe paid on World
Bank grants, which caused more delays. The Bank could have avoided suchproblems by
working out arrangementswith Government before the program began, for example with
an arrangement for the MOIT project manager or the management contractor to have a
special account inthe Central Bank and the authority to disburse grant payments.




4. The managementcontractor and the steering Committee o f the scheme wrote several letters to the Bank
and got no answer. The management contractor even sent the Director o fthe fmto the Bank's
headquarters inWashington to see what the problem was, and was told that approvals for the five grant
proposals would be forthcoming.

                                               9


 4.      Achievement of Outputs and Outcomes                            *


 MSTQSERVICES

 4.1     Outputs. All activities under ITDP'S objective of improvingMSTQ services
 were completed as planned. Technical assistance, via a twinning arrangement with
 CSJRO, Australia's primarymetrology center, was providedto the National Metrology
 Center (KIM)to develop its management andinstitutionalcapacity, andnew laboratory
 equipment was procuredto upgrade the technical proficiency o fits calibration
 laboratories under the National Calibration System(JKN). Interviews with Indonesian
 Instituteo f Sciences (LIPI)officials, the parent institution o f KIM, andproject
monitoring data indicate that the twinning arrangement and the new lab equipment
 succeeded inraisingthe capacity o f KIMinthe area o f calibration.

4.2      More than 3000 SMEs participated inPUSTAN's quality awareness seminars and
 about 700 firms were trained indocumentation procedures for adopting I S 0 9000.
 Outreach centers were established ineight regions o f the country, and 64 extension
 agents were trained to runthese centers. More than 1700 SMEs were assisted inquality
management at these centers. Inaddition, technical assistancewas made available to
PUSTANto improve the performance o f five MOIT standards-testing laboratories to gain
internationalrecognitionand accreditation. By the end o f the project, the five labs were
able to achieve national accreditation by the National Accreditation Committee o f
Indonesia(KAN), but not international accreditation

4.3      Outcomes. ITDP's objectiveo fimproving MSTQ quality was substantially
achieved. Projectperformance indicators show a doubling inthe number o f KIM
calibrationlabs accredited locally (although not intemationally), and the share o f
calibration labs showing acceptable inter-comparisonresults increased from 50 percent to
80 percent. The Center for IndustrialStandards (PUSTAN) succeededingettingfour o f
five labs intemationallyrecognized, andbrought them into conformance with ISO/IEC
Guide 25DSN01.

4.4      Only27 o fthe targeted 40 firms obtained I S 0 9000 certificationunder
PUSTAN'Ssub-component for quality systems improvement. Interviews inIndonesia
indicate that part o fthe reason was that small, domestically-oriented SMEs hadno
immediate needfor I S 0 9000 becausethey were not direct exporters. The thirteen SMEs
that received ITDP-funded assistance to prepare for I S 0 9000, but failed to obtain
certification, were not exporters. Inthe end, they didnot want to pay out o ftheir own
pockets for final certificationbecause they said it was not neededto do business.

SMEACCESS TECHNOLOGY
               TO                  SERVICES

4.5     Outputs. Underthematching grant scheme, the target number o f grants was
reduced from the original 600 to 300 duringa March 1999 supervisionmission and
further to 200 duringthe October 1999mission. Inthe end, the schemewas able to make
only 144 grants that were fully completed before it closed in2001. The total value o f
these grants was US$516,450; the average grant size was about US$5000. Fortypercent

                                                      10


 o fITDP matching grants were made inthe Jakarta region and the remaining sixtypercent
 were spreadover three other areas inthe country (Bandung, Surabaya, and Semarang).
 Exporters received 30 percent o f the grants, and 70 percent went to companies focused on
 domestic markets inengineering (33 percent), ago-business (26 percent) and others (11
 percent). More than 65 percent o f grants went to medium-sized firms with sales o f more
 thanRps 1billion($100,000), and30 percent ofthese went to firms with sales ofRps2
 to 5 billion. Technology training seminars onvarious subjects were also conducted in
 Jakarta, Semarang and Medan.

 4.6      Outcomes. The achievement ofobjectives ofthe matching grants scheme was
 negligible becauseo fdefects inits design and because o f implementationproblems.As
 noted earlier, the criteria for selecting grants didnot explicitly set out the necessary and
 sufficient conditions for successful implementationo f a public subsidy scheme. There
 was no mention ofthe importance o fnot crowding out private sector funding andno
 mention o f the importance o f establishing a clear distinctionbetween the private benefits
 to firms and the broader economic benefits to society (via spillovers or "demonstration
 effects").

 4.7      Implementationproblems decreasedthe scheme's outcome potential further. The
 long delays ingetting started and inexecution reduced any possibility that the scheme
 could meet its target number o f 600 grants. Inthe end, the final tally o f 144 grants fell
 short o f the twice-reduced target of 200 grants. The small numbero f grants handedout by
 the scheme meant that total administrative cost per grant would be highand that potential
 benefits o fthe scheme would be limited.At the end o fthe day, it cost $826,007 to hand
 out subsidiesto SMEs o f $516,450? Assuming that a dollar's worth o f subsidies
 generated a dollar's worth o fbenefits, the resultingbenefit-cost ratio o f the ITDP scheme
 i s much less than one (.63), indicating negligible efficiency.

4.8       Itmight bepossible, however, that a dollar's worth o fthe scheme's subsidies
generated more than (less than) a dollar's worth o fbenefits. The Staff Appraisal Report
listedthe following expectedpositive benefits from the scheme: (a) improvements in
 SMEproductivity(b) increase inthe numberofbusiness service providers and (c) greater
willingness of SMEsto use consulting services.

4.9       Withrespect to SMEproductivityimprovements, the final report o fthe
management contractor and the ICRmake the case that many o f the grants generated
positiveproductivity improvements or increased sales revenue. However, this "before
and after" analysis does not consider the counterfactual, i.e., what would have happened
to productivity without the project.

4.10      The small number o f grants awarded didnot have muchimpact onwideningthe
market for consulting services. Ina large country like Indonesia, a relatively small,
temporary subsidyscheme does not provide enough of a sustained market for service



5. The cost figure is only the cost paid to the management contractor for managing the scheme. It does not
include the Bank's and the Government's design costs or supervision costs, which would make the total
costs of the scheme much higher.

                                                11


 providers to expand or to enter. This has beenconfirmed instudies ofmatching grant
 schemes inother countries.

 4.11 To investigate possible increasesinwillingness to pay for consulting services by
 SMEs, the OEDmissionconducted a surveyof 35 randomly-selected SMEs that used
 consultants for the first time under the ITDP (the 35 firms accounted for 25 percent o f
 grants awarded). None o f the SMEs surveyedused consultants again four years after the
 ITDP.Halfstated that they only considered usingsuch services becausethey were
 subsidized under the project and they didnot thinkthe benefits were large enough to pay
 for themwithout such subsidies.The other halfsaid that their consulting experience was
 useful, but they could not afford such services now. Eitherway, there appeared to be no
 demandinthis group for consultants today.

 4.12    The OED survey of 35 grant recipients andreviews o fproject completionreports
 found that only about 30 percent o fthe grants hadpotentialeconomic benefits inthe form
o f technology spillovers. Many grants were for I S 0 9000 preparation and certification
(25 percent o fprojects) - a management improvement systemwidely knownin
Indonesia. Since I S 0 9000 certification was being accomplished anyway by manyprivate
firms inIndonesiaat the time o f ITDP, the spillover or demonstration effects generated
by grants inthis areawere small. The next largest numbero f grants went for trouble-
shooting small productionproblems that were specific to the firms (23 percent o f
projects). Furtherdown the line were grants for product design improvements, again
mostly specific to the firms (15 percent o fprojects). And finally there were grants for
small quality control improvements that were generally well knowninthe industrial
community inIndonesia (15 percent o fprojects). Fewprojects couldbe saidto have
transferred new technology into the economy or to have diffused new technologies to
SMEs.

4.13    Insum, the available informationonthematchinggrants programshows that the
scheme failed to generate enough social benefits, including indirect market-development
benefits, to raise the low benefit-cost ratio. It would appear that this public subsidy
scheme didnot create enough economic benefits to justify its public costs.

R&DINSTITUTIONS

4.14    Outputs. The LIPImanagement systems strengthening programwas
implementedas plannedby the close o f the project. The leadership development program
trained 47 managers, many o fwhom are now inLevels VI1management positions. The
program formulated new business development guidelines which includedprocedures for
research planning andpriority-setting, communication strategies, accounts management,
andstandardization of contracts.

4.15    The project's ITprogramat LIPIdeveloped computerizedsystems usingCSIRO
software and consulting services. The human resources IT system was fully completed
duringthe project andis currently operational for all LIPIcenters. By2004, 80 percent o f
LIPIcenterswere usingthe financial ITsystem. Theprojectmanagement ITsystemwas
only 25 percent completed duringthe project, but LIPIwas able to get the funds from the
Government to complete it after the project closed. The project also created an intemal

                                               12


 ITnetwork that connects all o fLIPI's centers and a website for extemalcommunication
 with research institutes aroundthe world. Onthe whole, however, LIPIhada somewhat
 difficult experience with institution-wideimplementationo f the IT systems component o f
 the project becauseo fthe reluctance of some managers to switch over from manual to
 computerized systems.

 4.16    BPPT activities -- a twinningarrangement with Battelle Memorial Instituteinthe
 United States, training, and procurement o f computer equipment -- were completedby
 the close o fthe project. Technical assistancehelpedbuildBPPT's capability inthe areas
 o fbusiness development, contract management, public relations and communications,
 and intellectualproperty management. Standard contracts were developed and a contract
 tracking system was installed.

 4.17    LIPI's R&D Center for Applied Chemistry (RDCAC) was selected to receive
 support under ITDP as a test case inimproving the ability o f R&D centers to increase
 their self-financing.A planningsystem for settingresearchprioritieswas initiated, which
 included extemalreviewersform the private sector. A twinningprogramwith KIST-
 Korea was also arranged. These efforts resulted inan increase intraining programs,
 chemical analysis, andtestingprograms with industry, as well as the spin-off o f a
company infermentation technology which will earn royalties for RDCAC.

4.18     The Semarang Institute (BISM)was supported with trainingprograms and
equipment procurement under ITDP, andthese activities were completed by 2001.
Training opportunities abroad allowed BISM staff to assess and compare market
opportunities outside o f Indonesia, and as a result BISM'swork with industryincreased at
home and abroad. InMOIT's Institute for R&D for Chemical Industry(IRDCI), a
twinning arrangement with India's National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) helpedto
develop better project management skills and marketingknow-how. IRDCI's packaging
division also received assistance via a twinningarrangement with France's AFNOR to
improve its laboratorymanagement practices and testing services andto learn about new
technology inpackaging. This work was completed as plannedby 2001.

4.19    Finally, ITDP supported an IRDCIarrangement with NATA o fAustralia for a
laboratory accreditation program. The program was meant to help IRDCI obtain
accreditation and internationalrecognitioninits packaging, chemical, microbiology,
waste water, and calibration laboratories. Because o f administrativedelays andpolitical
problems inIndonesia, which caused security problems that kept NATA staff from
visiting the country beforethe project closed, the programwas not completed. IRDCIhas
not had the resources to pursue completiono f this international accreditation program.
However, the laboratories have been nationally accredited byKAN.

4.20    Outcomes. The achievement o fimprovedself-financing inpublic R&Dinstitutes
was modest. A review o f project performance data for the selected LIPIandMOIT
laboratories receivingITDP support shows improvements over the period inthe self-
financing ratios o f two institutes anddeteriorationinself-financing ratios intwo others.
Projected changes inself-financingratios inthe Staff Appraisal Report rangedfrom 50
percent to 200 percent, dependingon the institution. Actual changes, measured inthe
final year o f the project, ranged from a -56 percent decline to a 160percent increase:

                                                13


RDCAC-LIP1increased its ratio from 27 percent to 43 percent, BSIM-MOIT showed a
decline inits ratio from 85 percent to 57 percent, IRDCI-MOIT declined from 57 percent
to 25 percent and TBIS-BPPT increased from 5 percent to 13 percent. It shouldbenoted
that, while the figures show declines over the years o fthe project insome cases, the final
self-financing ratios o f all these selected institutions are still higherthanthe average for
other public R&Dinstitutions inIndonesia.

4.21    Interviews inIndonesia with staff o f the R&D institutionspoint to some o f the
reasons for the variation inself-financingperformance. First, legal restrictions onbudgets
o fthe R&D institutions severely reduced incentives to do businesswith the private
sector. Second, the positive impact o f ITDP onthe self-financingratio o f an institution
like RDCAC canbe attributed, inpart, to the fact that RDCAC earns much o f its
revenues from testing, analysis, and training -- services more easily sold to the private
sector than researchcontracts and new technologies. Third, declining self-financing ratios
inBISMandIRDCIwereundoubtedlyaffectedbythe Asianfinancialcrisis.

4.22    The effect o fpublic R&Dinstitutions'technology and services on SMEs, the
target group o f ITDP, was negligible. Besides the fact that SMEs are not the natural
clientele o fthese institutions, most o f them continue to be isolatedfrom the private sector
more generally. UntilR&D institutions become independentlyfunctioning organizations,
responding to the demands o f the private sector rather than to the Government for their
normal operating expenses, such exercises will continue to come up empty.

INDUSTRIAL    TECHNOLOGYPOLICY

4.23    Outputs. Theprojectprovideda small amount ofsupport to MOIT to strengthen
its PolicyAdvisory Unit (PAU). Technical assistance and financial resources were used
to complete the IndustrialMaster Plan andPolicy, Electronics Sub-sector Study, and a
Study on Restructuringo fAgo-Based Industry. Funds also went to BPPT's Science and
technology Management Policy Group to complete a study on the assessment o f current
technology policies.

4.24    Outcomes. The achievement o fthe objectiveto improve industrial and
technology policy was modest. Although studies were completed under the project,
limitedcapacity was left behindto carry onthis work inthe future, as evidencedby
requests on the PPAR mission for technical assistance and financial resources to do
almost identical studies.



5.      Ratings

OUTCOME

5.1     Taking into account relevance, efficacy, and efficiency o f the four ITDP
objectives (Table l), overall Outcomeo fthe project was ModeratelySatisfactory.
                      the

                                                     14


     The objective o f improving Indonesia's systemofindustrialMSTQ was substantially
     achieved. Project performance indicators show that the number o f calibrationlabs at
     the Institute o fNationalMetrology accredited doubled andthe percent o f calibration
     labs showing acceptable inter-comparison tests increased substantially. The Center
     for Industrial Standardsalso managed to get four o f five labs internationally
     recognized and into conformance with I S 0 requirements.However, only 27 out o fthe
    targeted 40 SMEs slated for I S 0 9000 certification under the Center's subcomponent
     for quality systems improvementwere certified.
     The achievement o f the objective o f facilitating SME access to technology services
    was negligible due to problems with the design andimplementation o f the matching
     grants scheme. The scheme failed to generate the requisite economic benefits,
    including indirect market-development benefits. It would appear that this public
     subsidy scheme didnot create enough economic benefits to justify its public costs.
    The achievement o f the R&D management objectivewas modest. Self-financing
    ratios of supported R&Dinstitutions show increases intwo institutions and
     substantial declines intwo others. Failure to realizeprojectedlevels o f self-financing
    can be attributed inlargepart to govemment legalrestrictions on budgets o f the R&D
    institutions, which reduced incentives to do business with the private sector.
    The objective o f improving industrial andtechnologypolicy formulation was only
    modestly achieved. The Master Planand studies that ITDP supported were completed,
    but limitedcapacity was left behindto carry onthis work inthe future.


Table 1.Ratings for Achievementof Project Objectives
Objective                                                      Relevance   Efficacy    Efficiency


Provide public and privatetechnologyservices by improvingthe   Substantial Substantial Modest
MSTQ system
FacilitateSME accessto technologyservices                      Substantial Negligible Negligible
Strengthen public technology support institutionsby increasing Substantial Modest     Modest
the self-financingof public R&D institutions
Improvethe formulationand coordinationof industrial            Modest      Modest     Not
technology policies                                                                   applicable
Overall Ratings                                                Substantial Modest     Modest


SUSTAIN ABILITY

5.2       Sustainability o fproject benefits is Unlikely. Inthe area o f MSTQ, the eight
outreach centers established under the project have been folded into division o f local       '
governments as part o f the Governments' decentralization policy. Many o f these centers
are now having financial problems, and some have closed. Many o f the public standards
testinglaboratories that were accredited under ITDPwere also handedover to provincial
govemments and are suffering the same fate as the outreach centers. PUSTANi s still
assisting inthe area o f I S 0 9000 certificationfor SMEs, but only maintenance of
certificationfor firms that already have it.

                                                15


5.3      The sustainability ofthe impact of ITDP support on the capacity o fR&D
institutionsalso appears unlikely. I t i s clear that the supported R&Dinstitutions gained
from their relationships with various twinningpartners, and some o fthese relationships
remaintoday. For example, LIPIi s still interacting and communicatingwith CSIRO-
Australia: five scientists from LIPIgo to CSIRO annually for two months on a continuing
exchange program. Butmost o fthe twinningrelationships inother institutions have been
reduced to periodic communications.

5.4      The IT management systems inhumanresources and finance, ininstitutions such
as LIPI, are getting old and are not beingmaintained. Unfortunately, there i s currently a
lack o f Government h d s to make these changes. Insome cases, scientific equipment
procuredunder ITDP i s broken and cannot be repaired or replaced for lack o fresources.
Some o fthe laboratories that were supposed to become internationally accredited under
ITDPhave not continued their internationalaccreditation programwith NATA-Australia.
And innovativeresearchplanningpractices set up under ITDPhavebeencontinuedin
very few institutions. All inall, it appearsthat four years after ITDPhas closed benefits
o f the loan have already begunto fade substantially inthe R&D institutions.

5.5      Finally, the outcome o f the project's support to the Ministryo f Industryand Trade
to strengthen its Policy Advisory Unitwas also short-livedbecausethe unitwas
disbanded.

INSTITUTIONAL      DEVELOPMENT     IMPACT

5.6      The InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactofthe projectwas Modest. As described
above, supported R&Dinstitutes didgain from their relationships with various twinning
partners interms o f leadership development, improving IT management and
communication systems, and strengtheningresearchplanningduringthe years o f the
project. MSTQ institutes also upgraded their labs. But the objective o f commercializing
public R&Dinstitutes was only partially achieved, and these organizations failed to
reorienttheir services toward the target population o f SMEs.

BANKPERFORMANCE

5.7      Overall BankPerformancewas Satisfactory.The ITDP identified an important
problemthat neededto be addressedinthe Indonesianeconomy and that fit with the
Government's development priorities. However, the quality at entry was variable across
the components o ftheproject, as described above. Design flaws affected the
achievement o f outcomes particularly inthe R&Dmanagement andmatching grant
components.

5.8      Supervision was moderatelysatisfactory. There were a sufficient number o f
supervision missions over the six years o fthe project. Bank staffworked well with
Government and implementingagencies and provided them with helpfultechnical
advice. However, staffinthe R&Dinstitutions noted that Bank's supervisionmissions
could have beenlonger inorder to deal with all the complexities o fthe project. They felt
that there was often not enough time for adequate discussion andproblem solving in
particular areas.

                                                16


5.9      There was an important supervision failure inthe case o f the matching grant
scheme. The Bank took eleven months to give its approval to five initial grantsrequired
to beginimplementation o f the scheme. This heldup implementation and severely
reduced outcomes interms o fthe final grant tally and scheme benefits. The ICR notes
this delay instart up ofthe matchinggrants program, but fails to mentionthe Bank's
supervision failure. Interviews inIndonesia and discussions with Bank staff suggest that
the real cause o fthe delay was that the original Bank task manager left to take up another
positioninthe Bank and there was aperiod where no one was responsible for following
through on these approvals.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE

5.10     Overall Borrower Performancewas Satisfactory.Government officials and
staff o f implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank indesigning and
implementingITDP.When implementationissues arose inthe course o fthe project, the
project management implementation unitswere receptive to suggestions from the Bank
and took remedial actions. For example, whenprocurement problems arose, the
Governments organized intensive training onprocurement procedures which effectively
addressedthese problems. Project reports were also submittedto the Bank on schedule,
which assistedinmonitoring ITDP and assessingprogress against program targets.

5.11 Despite changes inadministrationandthe problems that arose duringthe Asian
financial crisis, Government maintainedits commitment to ITDP. The Government also
worked with the Bank to restructure the loan so that the substance o f the programwas
maintainedwhen financial cuts had to be made.

5.12     Where the Government failed to perform effectively was inthe area o f setting an
appropriate policy environment for project outcomes. The fact that the restrictions on
budgetsofR&D institutions were kept inplace over the years o fthe project severely
impededthe self-financing goals ofthe Government's planto commercializepublic R&D
institutions.



6.       Lessons Learned

6.1      Industrialtechnology developmentprojectsaimed at commercializingpublic
R&Dinstitutionsshouldonlybeundertakeninfavorableregulatoryenvironments.
Legalrestrictions on the ability o f R&Dinstitutions to retain and accumulate their
revenues from work with the private sector and on their flexibility indetermining the use
o f these earnings can severely hamper efforts to commercialize their activities.
Ultimately, there i s no substitute for independentlyfbnctioning public R&D institutions
that respond to market demands and look to their private sector clients rather than
Government for their normal operating finances. The way government finances and
controls the activities o fthese institutions plays an important role inrealizingthis
objective.

                                              17


6.2    Itis a mistaketo appendsupportfor SMEsto general-purposeR&D
institutionswhoseprincipalclientsare larger moresophisticatedenterprises.SMEs
have different needs and lack the technical personnel to communicate effectively with
sophisticated technical and scientific staff o fmost R&Dinstitutions (hi-tech firms are
different). Dedicated, specialized institutions, which are decentralized, are neededto
serve SMEs that focus on training, providing advice, and solving problems brought to
them.

6.3    Matchinggrantschemesshouldbedesignedto maximizereturnsto public
resourcesinvestedinthem, underthe sameprinciplethat appliesto any public
investment.To achieve this goal, schememanagersmustsucceed at two tasks: selecting
projects with large economic (social) returns to the country and funding only those
projects that would not otherwise find private funding.

6.4    Projectsto developpublic institutions, such as thepublic R&D institutions
targetedbyITDP, shouldpay closer attentionto recurrent costs.Fouryears after
ITDP closed, investments inITmanagement systems and expensive scientific equipment
are showing signs of deterioration because o f a lack ofresources to maintain, repair, or
replace hardware and software. Some donor agencies have begunto include funds for
such recurrent costs intheir projects to address this problem.


                                                 19                             Annex A


Annex A. Key PerformanceIndicators

Outcome/ImpactIndicators
          Indicator Matrix                 ProjectedinLastPSR             ActuaVLatestEstimate
I.INSTITUTEOFNATIONAL                     98/99    99/00  `00  `01        98/99   99/00   `00  `01
METROLOGY (KIM-LIPI)
 1.No. o f measurement fields o f                              2
KIM-LIP1 registered inB I P M
Global MRA
2. No. o f qualified assessors                     30     30   30         27      29      29   29
(cumulative)
3. No. of calibration labs                         25`    30   30         17      20      25   40
accreditedto ISO/IEC Guide 25
or I S 0 17025 (cumulative)
4. % of calibration labsshowing                    80%    90%  90%        50%     59%     65%  80%
acceptableinter-comparison
results
5. Longest delivery time o f                       4      3    3          5       5       4    3
calibration at KIM-LIP1 (weeks)

11.R&D CENTER FOR                   97/98 98/99    99/00  `00  `01  97/98 98/99   99/00   `00  `01
APPLIED CHEMISTRY
(RDCAC-LIPI)
1. Self-financingRatio              43.7% 49.4%    30%    35%       26.5% 26.6%   22%     16%  43%
2. Number ofnew clients contacted   15     18      30     35        16    34      28      285  376
3. Number o fcontracts signed:
           Research contracts       6     7        8      10        7     11      9       11   9
           Consultancy              4     6        8      10        2     3       4       1    2
           Training                 12    12       12     12        6     11      9
           Material analysis        75    75       25     25        32    34      26
4. No. o f contracts successfully
completed:
           Research Contracts       5     7        8      10        6     7       9
           Consultancy              4     6        8      10        2     5       4
           Training                 12    12       12     12        6     11      9
           Material analysis        75    75       25     25   25   32    34      26
5. Revenue generated from tech      2300  2900     1500   2000      890   1217     1156   844  1616
services
6. Overall income to expenditure    0.43  0.49     0.30   0.35      0.26  0.26    0.21    0.17 0.28
ratio
7. Number of technologies licensed  1     2        2      2         1     1       1
8. Revenue generated from           150   300      15     50        15    15
technology licensing
9. Value o fproduction from        480    510      200    100                     80      15   15
commercialized laboratories
10. Number o f laboratories                        1      2                       2       2
accredited

                                                 20                                 Annex A



      IndicatorMatrix                  ProjectedinLast PSR                   ActuaVLatest Estimate
111.MANAGEMENT                96/97 97/98 98/99   99/00 `00   01   96/97 97/98  98/99  99/00   `00   `01
SYSTEM
STRENGTHENING(MSS-
LIPI)
1.Self-financingRatio         11%   8%     11%    13%   15%   18%  11%   8.2%   8.2%   10%     10%   11%
2. Numberof companies         25    25    75      250   300   400        14     75     200     300   500
directly contacted
3. Number ofproposals         10    5      10     20    29    40         2      12     5       21    11
submitted
4. Numberof contracts         5     10    2       8     9     16                2      1       5     6
signed
5. Number o f companies       250   400   400     1000   1125 1500       62     258    700     850   1500
informed

IV. SEMARANG                        97/98 98/99   99/00 `00   `01        97/98  98/99  99/00   `00   `01
INSTITUTE-MOIT
1. Self-financing Ratio             58%   63%     57%   57%   57%        85%    71%    64%     92%   57%
2. No. ofNew Gients                 30    45      60    70    80         52     46     38      60    120
3. No. of contracts actually        70    85      100    110  120        145    355    293     350   410
signed(designengineering,
testing, technology
development, consultancy)
4 No. of contract                   70    85      100   110   110        145    264    53      40    390
successfullycompleted
5. Revenuegenerated                 1156   1491  2003   2074  2100       1949   1393   1299    1554  1687
(million rupiahs)
6. Total expenditure (million       1981  2431   2853   3001  3359       3032   2450   1912    1912  2316
rupiahs)
7. IncomeExpenditureRatio          0.58   0.63   0.57   0.69  0.63       0.66   0.57   0.68    0.68  0.72
8. No. o ftechnology licensed             1       1     1     1
9. Revenuegeneratedfrom                   10      10    10    10
technologylicensing (million
rupias)
10.No. of patents filled in               1       1     1     1
nationally
11. No. of laboratories                   1       1     1     1                                      2
accreditednationally

                                                      21                                 Annex A



             Indicator Matrix                 ProjectedinLast       Actuafiatest Estimate
                                                   PSR
V. CENTER FOR INDUSTRIAL                     98/99    99/00
STANDARDS (PUSTAN)-MOTT                                       98/99  99/00      `00      `01

(a) Quality Awareness
i.`No.  of companiesinquality awareness      3000     3000    3163   3163       C*       C
program
2. No. of companiesimplementingquality       600      600     672    672        C        C
programs
3. No. of companiesseeking IS09000           40       40      40     40         C        C
certification through ITDP-supportedKAN
Program
(b) Training of ExtensionAgents &
Establishing OutreachCenters
1. Market Study completed/outreach           Done             Done
programplanned
2. MSTQ ExtensionAgentstrained               Done             Done
3. No. of SMIs assistedby agents             800      800     865    891        C        C
Management& IntercomparisonTesting
(c) Upgrading LaboratoryManagement&
IntercomparisonTesting
1. Preparationof strategicplansfor 5 labs    Done     All 5   Done   All 5      C        C
2. No. of labs within acceptable limits o f  All 5    All 5          All 5      C        C
inter-comparison
3. No. of labs incomformity with ISO/IEC     3        All 5          All 5      C        C
Guide 25lDSNOl
4. No. of labs internationally recognized             5              C          C        C
andlor accredited
5. No. of labs nationally recognizedandlor            5              4          C        C
accredited
*C=completed

                                                  22                                     Annex A



       Indicator Matrix              ProjectedinLastPSR                       ActualhatestEstimate
 VI.INSTITUTEFOR            97/98  98/99    99/00   `00     `01     97/98  98/99    99/00     `00    `01
 R&D OF CHEMICAL
 INDUSTRY (ma)          -
 MOIT
~1. Self-FinancingRatio     36.6%  34.9%    49.1%   36.3%   24.7%   57.7%  45.5%    49.1%     36.3%  24.7%
 2. Number of new client    80     80       90      80      70      70     54       94        67     90
 contacted for business
 linkage
 3. Number of contracts     45     40       50      55      50      37     10       79        49     72
 signed
 4. Number o fcontracts     45     40       40      50      45      22     9        67       43      70
 successfullycompleted
 5. Revenuegenerated        829    1500     1766    1143.8  1019.8  2107   1360     2033      1267   1164.6
 (RPJ-4
 6. Total income (Rp.m)     2266   3406     4090    3326    4582    3650   3270     4139      3494   4706
 7. Incometo expenditure    0.37   0.41     0.49    0.36    0.24    0.58   0.41     0.49      0.36   0.24
 ratio (%)
 8. Number of technology                            2       2              1                  4      1
 licensed
 9. Revenuegenerated                        340     500     450            85       347       536    275
 from technology
 licensing
 10. Number o f
 laboratoriesaccredited:
 -- nationally              1      1        1       5       5
    internationally         1      1        1       4       4                                        5


        Indicator Matrix             ProjectedinLastPSR                 Actuanatest Estimate
 VII. AGENCY FOR              97/98 98/99  99/00       00/01      97/98   98/99  99/00   00/01
 ASSESSMENT AND
 APPLICATION OF
 TECHNOLOGY (BPPT)
 1. Self-financingratio             5%     7.5%        15%                5%     4%      13%
 2. Businessdevelopment             0      200         250                0      190     200
 3. Contract administration         0      55          70                 0      74      70
 4. IP Management (patent)          0      5           10                 0      6       6
 5. Marketing                       1000   2000        3000               0      2000    2500
 Communications
 6. OperatorAutonomy                50%    50%         75%                50%    50%     50%
                                           2000        2001                      2000    2001
 7. DIP (Dev. Budget)                      35328928    69833514                  353280  6983351
                                                                                 00      4
 8. DIK (Routine Budget)                   63289928    86853014                  632899  8685301
                                                                                 28      4
 9. DIKS+DURK(Contract                     11791037    10963877                  117910  1553075
 Research                                                                        37      5
 VIII.DAPATI                 97/98 98/99   99/00      00/01       97/98   98/99  99/00   00/01
 PROGRAM
 (i) ofContractssigned
     No.                     0     10      70          130        0       4      56      148
 (ii) ofrepeated
     No.                                                                        - 4      8
 contracts

                                               23                                       Annex B


Annex B. Basic Data Sheet

INDONESIA DEVELOPMENT
                   INDUSTRIAL   TECHNOLOGY                                  PROJECT      (LOAN
No.3972)

Key ProjectData(amounts in US$million)
                                             Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as % of
                                             estimate       current estimate   appraisal estimate
IDA Loan                                       47.00             38.50                81.90
Government                                     7.70               3.17                41.20
Co-financing                                   6.20               0.30                 4.80
Total project cost                             60.90             41.97                68.90


CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements(US$million)
                            FY96 FY97     FY98     FY99     FYOO     FYOI   FY02     FY03
Appraisalestimate           7.28 21.56    33..44   40.56    44.90    47.00  47.00    47.00
Actual                      1.00  4.13    13.29    18.07    25.75    32.02  32.63    32.63
Actual as % of estimate     13.7  19.1     39.7     44.5    57.3     68.1   69.4     68.4



ProjectDates
                                                    Original                     Actual
Appraisal                                                                     April 15, 1995
Board approval                                                              December 21, 1995
Effectiveness                                                                 March 18, 1996
Mid-Term Review                                November 1,1998               October 15, 1999
Closing date                                   December31,2001              December 31,2001


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    N" Staff weeks                          us$us$(looo)
IdentificationlPreparation               124.3                                310.8
AppraisaVNegotiation                      82.8                                207.2
Supervision                               96.2                                240.0
ICR                                        9.6                                 4.8
Total                                    312.9                                806.0

                                               24                                           Annex B



Mission Data

                     Date      No. of                                                   Performance rating

                 (month/year)  persons        Specializationsrepresented           Implementation Development
                                                                                       status      objectives
 Identification/ October 1993     3    Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
 Preparation                             Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                         Research & Development Specialist
                  April 1994      3    Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
                                         Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                         Research & Development Specialist
                November 1994     4    Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
                                         Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                         Research & Development Specialist,
                                                       Consultant
                 February 1995    5    Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
                                         Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                         Research & Development Specialist,
                                                      Consultants (2)
Appraisal/        June 1995       5    Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
Negotiation                              Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                         Research & Development Specialist,
                                            Consultant. Operations Officer
 Supervision
Supervision 1     June 1996            Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
                                         Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                           Procurement Specialist, Project
                                               Implementation Specialist
Supervision 2   November 1996          Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
                                         Metrology and Standards Specialist,
                                          Project Implementation Specialist
Supervision 3   February 1997          Policy and Institutional Issues Specialist,
                                          Project Implementation Specialist
Supervision 4   November 1997           Team Leader, RSI Sector Coordinator,
                                        Research and Development Specialist,
                                                    MSTQ Specialist
Supervision 5    March 1999                Financial Specialist, RSI Sector
                                       Coordinator, Research and Development
                                              Specialist, MSTQ Specialist
Supervision 6    October 1999             Financial Specialist, Procurement
                                       Specialist (2), Research and Development
                                              Specialist, MSTQ Specialist
Supervision 7    August 2000             Financial Specialist, Research and
                                        Development Specialist, Procurement
                                          Specialist, Disbursement Analyst
Supervision 8     June 2001               Financial Specialist, Procurement
                                      Specialist, Disbursement Analyst, Research
                                             and DeveloDment SDecialist
ICR              March 2002      6    Task Manager, Research and Development             S              S
                                                        Specialist



