Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3972 IND
                               Loan Agreement
                 (Industrial Technology Development Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated January 18, 1996
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3972 IND
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 18, 1996, between the REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations."
      (c)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article
            III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a) "Action Plan" means the plan referred to in paragraph
3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement dated September 25, 1995;
      (b) "Bank Indonesia" means the Borrower's central bank;
      (c) "Beneficiary" means an enterprise whose equity is more
than 50% privately owned, established and operating in
Indonesia, which is engaged in production or related services
in the manufac-turing sector, including provision of technology
consulting ser-vices, and with annual gross sales of less than
Rp. 2,000,000,000;
      (d)   "Central PMIU" means the coordinating unit referred
to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement
established by the Borrower on November 30, 1995;
      (e) "DAPATI Grant" means a grant in Rupiah or in Dollars
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to a Beneficiary
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to paragraph 2 (c) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement to assist in financing a portion
of the cost of a Sub-project;
      (f) "DAPATI Implementation Manual" means the manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, adopted by the Borrower through MOI
on November 24, 1995, as such manual may be revised pursuant to
paragraph 2(e) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for purposes of
providing DAPATI Grants to Beneficiaries for the carrying out
of Sub-projects;
      (g) "DAPATI Management Contract" means the contract to be
entered into between MOI and a management consulting firm
pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and
the term "DAPATI Management Contractor" means the management
consulting firm being a party to the DAPATI Management Contract;
      (h) "DAPATI Program" means the Borrower's program for
improving the provision of technical services to Beneficiaries
to enhance their competitiveness in domestic and international
markets, by improving their productivity, product quality,
product reliability, product design, delivery times, reduction
of costs, and by introducing new technologies and techniques so
as to diversify and enhance their overall production
Page  3
capacities;
      (i) "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Industry, and
any successor thereto;
      (j) "MSTQ Master Plan" means the Borrower's five-year plan
to upgrade individual industrial metrology, standards, testing
and quality, including ISO 9000 certification;
      (k) "Project Management and Implementation Unit" and the
acronym "PMIU" means each of the units referred to in paragraph
1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, established by the
Borrower on November 24, 1995;
      (l) "PTSI" means any one of the Borrower's public
technology support institutions, including BPPI, BPPT, LIPI,
IRDCI, BISm, RDCAC and KIM, and the following terms means the
following institutions: "BPPI" means the Agency for Industrial
Research and Development established within MOI; "BPPT" means
the Agency for the Assessment and Application of Technology
established by Presidential Decree No. 25 of 1978; "LIPI" means
the Indonesian Institute of Sciences established by
Presidential Decree No. 128 of 1967; "IRDCI" means the Research
and Development Institute for the Chemical Industry established
within MOI; "BISm" means the Semarang Industrial Research and
Development Institute established within MOI; and RDCAC and KIM
mean the laboratories established within LIPI;
      (m) "PUSTAN" means the Center for Industrial Standards
established within MOI responsible for implementing Indonesia's
national standards for industry and ISO 9000 certification of
industrial enterprises in Indonesia;
      (n) "Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;
      (o) "Service Provider" means an individual, a consulting
firm or a technology support institution that possess the
requisite qualifications and experience, set forth in the
DAPATI Implementation Manual, to provide the technical services
under a Sub-project, and the term "Service Providers" means,
collectively, more than one Service Provider;
      (p) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (q) "Steering Committee" means the committee referred to
in paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement established
by the Borrower on December 4, 1995;
      (r) "Sub-project" means the specific technical services to
be provided under the DAPATI Program, and to be financed in
part out of the proceeds of a DAPATI Grant, to a Beneficiary by
a Service Provider in accordance with the DAPATI Implementation
Manual and the provisions of this Agreement, to enhance the
Beneficiary's competitiveness in domestic and international
markets; and
      (s) "Technical Supervisory Committee" means the committee
referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement
established by the Borrower on November 13, 1995.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of forty seven million dollars
($47,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
Page  4
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
Indonesia on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                   in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                   to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                   loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                   1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
           (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
      amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
      time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
Page  5
      preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of
      1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
      this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on
      the principal amount outstanding during the preceding
      Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during
      such Interest Period."
            "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
      Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
      Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
      Quarter."
            "(c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
      a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Part A
of the Project through MOI and LIPI; (ii) Part B of the Project
through MOI; (iii) Part C of the Project through MOI, BPPT and
LIPI; and (iv) Part D of the Project through MOI and BPPT, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate industrial technology, financial and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
Page  6
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information con-
                   cerning said records and accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of any one of the PTSI.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                               Effective Date
Page  7
      Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            c/o Directorate General of Budget
            Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
            P.O. Box 2458
            Jakarta 10710
            Indonesia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINMINISTRY             45799 DJMLN-A
                   Jakarta                 44319 DEPKEU-IA
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                   By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  8
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in          Expenditures
      Category           Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Equipment                12,700,000          100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 65% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(2) Books and                 1,600,000          90%
    database
    subscriptions
(3) Training                  1,700,000          80%
(4) Technical
    Assistance:
    (a) Twinning
        Arrangements         14,200,000          80%
    (b) Consultants'
        services              4,600,000          80%
    (c) DAPATI Management
        Contract              2,000,000          100%
    (d) Research and
        policy studies        2,600,000          80%
(5) DAPATI Grants             6,200,000          100%
(6)    Unallocated            1,400,000
                             __________
                             47,000,000
                             ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "Twinning Arrangements" means the long term
collaboration arrangements to be entered into between each of
the PTSIs and internationally reputed laboratories and research
and development institutions.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
Page  9
      (b)   a DAPATI Grant under Category (5) unless: (i) the
DAPATI Management Contract shall have been entered into
pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and (ii) the grant has been made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
and
      (c)   Categories (1) and (4)(a) unless the Borrower shall
have issued the necessary regulations and all other related
instruments, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of
implementing the Action Plan referred to in paragraph 3 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures for: (i) goods under Categories (1) and (2) under
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent; (ii) training,
twinning arrangements, and research and policy studies under
Categories (3), (4)(a) and (4)(d) under contracts costing less
than $100,000 equivalent; (iii) contracts under Category (4)(b)
for the employment of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, and for the employment of individual consultants
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (iv) except for the first
five contracts regardless of their costs, contracts under
Category (5) for the employment of Service Providers estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to enhance the
competitiveness of Indonesian industry, particularly of small
and medium industries, in domestic and international markets
through (i) the provision of public and private technology
support services, (ii) facilitating access to technology
service providers, (iii) the strengthening of public technology
support institutions, and (iv) the effective formulation and
coordination of industrial and technology policies.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:     Implementation of the MSTQ Master Plan for industry,
including programs to promote quality awareness in industry,
comprehensive training programs for managers, supervisors and
qualified personnel of small and medium industries, improvement
of about five laboratories, and implementation of procedures
for granting of ISO 9000 certification to small and medium
industries on a pilot basis.
PART B:     Provision of DAPATI Grants to Beneficiaries for the
carrying out of Sub-projects.
PART C:     Strengthening of PTSIs capabilities to: (a) carry out
contract research and business development with industry,
including core functions for contract management, contract
administration, intellectual property management and
communications; and (b) manage information systems in
industrial research and development and laboratories, including
finance and budget, human resources administration, project
management, procurement and inventory management systems,
through the provision of technical assistance, including
twinning arrangements and equipment modernization.
PART D:     Strengthening of BPPI's and BPPT's capabilities for
formulation of industrial and technology polices for research
and development, through the provision of technical assistance.
Page  10
                                    * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 2001                                 905,000
March 15, 2002                                     935,000
September 15, 2002                                 970,000
March 15, 2003                                   1,005,000
September 15, 2003                               1,040,000
March 15, 2004                                   1,075,000
September 15, 2004                               1,115,000
March 15, 2005                                   1,155,000
September 15, 2005                               1,195,000
March 15, 2006                                   1,235,000
September 15, 2006                               1,280,000
March 15, 2007                                   1,325,000
September 15, 2007                               1,375,000
March 15, 2008                                   1,420,000
September 15, 2008                               1,470,000
March 15, 2009                                   1,525,000
September 15, 2009                               1,580,000
March 15, 2010                                   1,635,000
September 15, 2010                               1,690,000
March 15, 2011                                   1,750,000
September 15, 2011                               1,815,000
March 15, 2012                                   1,880,000
September 15, 2012                               1,945,000
March 15, 2013                                   2,015,000
September 15, 2013                               2,085,000
March 15, 2014                                   2,155,000
September 15, 2014                               2,235,000
March 15, 2015                                   2,315,000
September 15, 2015                               2,395,000
March 15, 2016                                   2,480,000
___________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                           Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                               Premium
                                           The interest rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage per
                                           annum) applicable to the
                                           Loan on the day of
                                           prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
Page  11
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                     0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                     1.00
      maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Highly specialized laboratory equipment estimated to cost
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $2,900,000 equivalent, and goods, which
the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.    Direct Contracting
       Goods which are of a proprietary nature may, with the
Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
Page  12
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services, including the services of the
DAPATI Management Contractor, shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of Service Providers estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, provided, however, that
the first five Service Providers' contracts shall require
Bank's prior review; or (b) contracts for the employment of
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each; or contracts for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of
a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of Service Providers
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above, (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or
(f) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
1.    For purposes of carrying out the Project the Borrower
shall maintain, or cause to be maintained:
      (a)   within each of BPPI, LIPI and BPPT, a Project
Management and Implementation Unit (PMIU), headed by a
qualified and experienced officer and assigned with such
functions, powers, funds and staffing as shall be required to
enable each PMIU to undertake the day-to-day implementation of
the Project;
Page  13
      (b)   the Central PMIU with representatives of the BPPI,
LIPI and BPPT, headed by a qualified and experienced officer,
to coordinate the activities of the PMIUs referred to in sub-
paragraph (a) above; and
      (c)   the Steering Committee with the overall
responsibility for Project implementation and policy guidance,
chaired by BAPPENAS, and with representatives of the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance, BPPI, BPPT and LIPI, and representatives
of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
2.    The Borrower shall, through MOI:
      (a)   carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with
the DAPATI Implementation Manual;
      (b)   enter into a management contract with a management
consulting firm, pursuant to Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, to, inter alia, (i) carry out the day-to-day
operations of the DAPATI Program in accordance with the DAPATI
Implementation Manual, and (ii) maintain a reliable register
and database of Service Providers;
      (c)   make DAPATI Grants to Beneficiaries under contracts
satisfactory to the Bank to finance a portion of the cost of a
Sub-project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the DAPATI Implementation Manual and in this
Agreement;
      (d)   maintain the Technical Supervisory Committee chaired
by MOI and with representatives of the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance, BAPPENAS, and BPPT, and representatives of the
Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the Indonesian
Association of Professional Consultants, for purposes of the
overall management of the DAPATI Program; and
      (e)   on March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31,
1996, exchange views with the Bank on the continued adequacy of
the DAPATI Implementation Manual and, with the Bank's prior
concurrence,  promptly revise the said Manual as shall be
required to achieve the objectives of the Project.
3.    For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project the
Borrower shall implement an Action Plan for the
commercialization or privatization, as the case may be, of each
of the PTSIs, including performance targets satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.    The Borrower shall and shall cause its departments and
agencies carrying out the Project to:
      (a)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance
with performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof;
      (b)   prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank, not later than September 30,
1998, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by November 1, 1998, or such
later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all
Page  14
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the
Bank's views on the matter.
5.    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 4 of
this Schedule and Section 9.07 (a) of the General Conditions,
by June 30 and December 31 in each year, commencing on December
31, 1996, the Borrower shall, and shall cause its departments
and agencies responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof to, prepare and furnish to the Bank a progress
report on the implementation of the Project, including
procurement information and expenditure statement and progress
in achieving the targets established for the PTSIs and the
Project Performance Indicators.
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for  the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$7,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
Page  15
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures. All such
                   deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                   the Loan Account under the respective eligible
                   Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                   amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                   documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified theBorrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  16
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
