                                            E4008

                      REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
   MINISTRY OF SCIENCE, EDUCATION AND SPORTS




     SECOND SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROJECT




  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK




Zagreb, August 2012
                                                                         2



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Bank, IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
BICRO               Business- Innovation Agency
EU                   European Union
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
SB                  Sub-borrower
PB                  Project Beneficiary
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assesment
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
MSDS                Material Safety Data Sheet
MSES                 Ministry of Science, Education and Sports
MENP                 Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection
RoC                  Republic of Croatia
STP II              Second Science and Technology Project
UKF                 Unity through Knowledge Fund
                                                                                                        3



ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES

1        Background
This section of the project Operation Manual presents the Environmental Management Framework that
serves as a tool to screen the sub projects financed and based on the screening guides on the
environmental due diligence procedures.

All sub-loans/grants to be provided under the STPII and project preparation should be subjected by
Project Beneficiaries to an environmental review process incorporating the procedures described in this
section. The Project Beneficiaries – BICRO, UKF and MSES, should use these procedures in
reviewing and appraising sub-borrowers/sub-projects, and to inform Sub-Borrowers of environmental
requirements for sub-loan appraisal, so that sub-projects can be implemented in an environmentally
sound manner. These procedures and requirements incorporate the Republic of Croatia's regulatory
requirements for environmental legislation and the World Bank’s safeguard policies.

Two types of sub-loans/projects will be considered under the project: (a) technical assistance –
preparation of documentation for financing, and (b) sub project investment.

The procedures essentially consist of Environmental Screening, Environmental Assessment, and
Environmental Mitigation where necessary. The Environmental Screening will be carried out by the
respective Project Beneficiary (PB) at an early stage in their sub-loan review procedures to determine
the appropriate environmental risk category for the sub-borrowers/sub-projects, and may require the
contracting of external expertise. Following screening, an Environmental Assessment (EA) in line with
the environmental classification of the sub-borrower/sub-project will be recommended. The sub-
borrowers will be responsible for carrying out any environmental assessment and for confirming that
the proposed sub-projects comply with national environmental guidelines, and for obtaining the
necessary clearance from the appropriate licensing authorities. Once the analysis is performed and
recommendations incorporated into the sub-project, the respective Project Beneficiariy will appraise
the proposed sub-loan package which would include, where appropriate, an environmental
management plan. The implementation of the environmental management plan will be monitored by
the PB. The overall review process will be monitored by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The
environmental screening process and responsibilities of key parties are described in detail below.



2. The project and the components

Project description
         While continuing the dual approach of the STP, combining technical assistance to the public
sector and financing of risk-sharing programs supporting R&D in SMEs (sub-financing), STP II will
use these instruments with a focus on preparing Croatia for efficient absorption of EU funds for R&D
by: (A) capacitating the public sector to absorb structural funds, including the preparation of a pipeline
of structural funds project applications ; and (B) maintaining and increasing the pool of SMEs that
could apply to the upcoming EU funded risk-sharing programs. The funds targeted will be available
under three key facilities: (i) European Regional Development Fund (ERDF); (ii) European Social
Fund (ESF); and (iii) EU’s HORIZON 2020 – the Framework Program for Research and Innovation.



Key Components
Component A: Technical Assistance (EUR 6.0 million)

        Croatia’s institutional framework for R&D and innovation is still to be made fully consistent
with EU requirements for use of upcoming structural funds and a number of preparatory improvements
                                                                                                             4



will be necessary to fully prepare the country to absorb available resources. The first component of the
proposed STP II therefore aims to build capacity in the public sector to ensure absorption of structural
funds, including preparation of a pipeline of project applications by the public sector.
        A.1. Improving management of national resources of research, development and innovation
(2.0 M EUR). This activity will:
      i. assist the Government in the formation of a national Science and Technology Strategy in
         Croatia that sets the framework for R&D and innovation policies, in conformity with the
         Europe 2020 Strategy, in order to enable the efficient absorption of EU structural funds and
         avoid delays in project submission and approval;
     ii. support the preparation of a Research Infrastructure Roadmap, deepening the overall Science
         and Technology Strategy in the area of research infrastructure and making it coherent with the
         European Research Infrastructure Roadmap;
     iii. provide technical support for capacity building in selected institutions in order to strengthen
          the governance of the country’s National Innovation System;
     iv. support the strategic planning, financial management, and preparation of performance-based
         contracts between MSES and Public Research Institutes, in line with the objectives of the draft
         Science Law;
     v. enhance governmental and institutional support to incre ase the absorption capacity for EU’s–
        the Framework Program for Research and Innovation 1 HORIZON 2020, particularly by
        nurturing young researchers and integration to the international scientific community;
     vi. support the development of a proper institutional framework for UKF programs, taking into
         account UKF’s other similar existing programs and institutions (strengthening UKF -type
         programs will be essential to the increase competitiveness and performance in FP7); and
         adjusting the UKF grant schemes to be nominated for financing from the ESF; as well as
    vii. assist in building capacity of MSES and BICRO to adjust its operational procedures and
         programs to structural funds (ERDF).
    viii. finance related costs of operating the PIU, including staff, financial management, audits,
          equipment, training and technical assistance


         A.2. Preparation of R&D infrastructure projects for EU structural funds (4.0 M EUR) .
Consistent with the envisaged Science and Technology Strategy and the Research Infrastructure
Roadmap, this component will finance training for preparation, along with the full preparation of
selected projects, including feasibility studies, cost-benefit analysis and technical documentation.
Infrastructure projects will be selected in close consultation with MSES.



Component B: Sub-financing (EUR 14.0 million)

         This component will maintain and increase the pool of SMEs that could apply to the upcoming
EU funded risk-sharing programs, ensuring the existence of a sound pipeline of private projects. In
addition, it will continue to support connections with the Diaspora and target research activities among
young scientists that are contributing to expand Croatia’s participation in the EU FP7 and follow up
programs. The specific activities under this component are listed below.

     B.1. Maintain and expand the pool of SMEs eligible for EU funded risk-sharing programs (10.0
     M EUR).


1
New name for the EU funding program for research and innovation to follow after the completion of the FP7.
                                                                                                        5



    BICRO would continue having the role of upgrading the innovation and technological capabilities
    of SMEs by providing financial support for technology-based companies, R&D centers and
    incubators and fostering links between the R&D community and industry. Financial support is
    provided through a mix of financial instruments, including matching grants, loans and equity
    investments. In addition, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports (MSES) delegated
    implementation of the European-wide EUREKA program to BICRO – a Europe-wide program
    dedicated to supporting research-performing SMEs in international collaboration. STP II would
    support the development of three of BICRO’s programs: RAZUM, SPREAD and Proof of Concept
    Grant Fund. Some funds will be reserved for a running pilot of programs under the structural fund
    guidelines.
    -    The objective of the Innovation Commercialization (RAZUM) program is to support the
         development of knowledge-based SMEs through conditional loans covering up to 70 percent
         of new product development costs. STP II contribution would focus on ensuring a sustainable
         increase in the number of knowledge-based technology-driven SMEs, by financing additional
         10-15 companies (out of estimated 80-100 applications), while further developing procedures
         and visibility.
         -   The SPREAD (Sponsored Research and Development) Program has the main objective to
             support industrial companies to substantially increase their R&D activities and create
             demand for services from scientific research institutions. At the same time, maximum
             usage of infrastructure in scientific research centers is stimulated, supporting
             collaboration with SMEs. Funding is provided to SMEs on the basis of 50:50 matching
             grants. As part of STP II, the program would finance roughly an additional 15 projects
             (out of estimated 100-120 applications).

         -   Key objectives of the Proof of Concept Grant Fund are to provide innovative companies
             and researchers an opportunity to verify and validate commercial viability of research
             results and establish an appropriate strategy for continued commercialization. The
             program is administered by Recognized centers with which BICRO signed an Agreement
             on Rights and Obligations to Program Implementation. BICRO in cooperation with
             Recognized centers provides grants on a competitive basis: for the entrepreneurs up to
             70 percent and for the scientists and researchers up to 90 percent of total project costs,
             supporting external expenditures on pre-commercialization proof of concept activities. As
             part of STP II, the Proof of Concept program will further develop its procedures and
             visibility, while financing additional 70-80 projects (out of estimated 200 applications).



         B.2. Strengthening human resources, research excellence and commercialization (4.0 M
EUR).
          The Unity through Knowledge Fund (UKF) has as objectives to strengthen research
collaboration between Croatian scientists in the country and the international community, in particular
Diaspora, through provision of grants for joint scientific projects, as well as through targeting research
activities among young scientists. The impact of the program on research excellence may be inferred
from a rate of approval of UKF supported programs in EU FP7 (Seventh Framework Program) twice as
large as those Croatian projects not supported by the program.
         Technology Transfer Offices (TTOs) in Croatia are not expected to be sustainable in the near
future. The Government of Croatia is currently running the Science Innovation Investment Fund (SIIF),
an IPA project mainly dedicated to technology transfer and commercialization capacities of Higher
Education Institutions and Public Research Institutes. The B2 component of STP II aims to
complement IPA projects and would design a TTO development strategy and capacities of TTOs for
the period 2014-2020 that could serve as a guide in preparing projects for structural funds
                                                                                                     6



IV.2     Safeguard Policies That Might Apply



Environmental Category B, with B and C subprojects would be applied.

OP/BP 4.01, (Environmental Assessment) is triggered. An overall EMF will be prepared, following
World Bank policies on consultation and disclosure, in advance of appraisal. EAs/EMPs would be
prepared for the sub-projects to be financed that would be classed as category B.

OP 17.50, (Disclosure Policy) is triggered with reference to the EMF and EAs/EMPs for the Sub-
projects to be financed.



IV.3     Environmental Screening Categories

Environmental Screening is the first step in the environmental due diligence process of reviewing the
sub-loan application.

In the STP two distinctive types of applications will be provided:

a) Applications for technical assistance, i.e. preparation of documents for future financing by EU
funds (see component A); and

b) Applications for sub projects directly financed by the project (see component B)

The purpose of environmental screening is to determine the environment risk associated with the
proposed sub-borrower/sub-project, reject applications which are unacceptable due to the nature of the
proposed activities, classify acceptable applications by environmental categories and identify the type
of environmental due diligence document that will be required.

    a) Applications for technical assistance

These applications will include requirement to consult the Ministry of Environment and Nature
Protection whether the EIA would be required for planned project. If so, the EIA will be prepared with
the rest of the technical documentation (design, permits, bidding documents, etc.) for EU financing.

    b) Applications for sub projects directly financed by the project

Results of the Environmental Screening shall be reflected in the Environmental Category Form (Annex
B), completed by PBs and submitted to PIU and the sub-borrower. Through the Environmental
Screening Form (Annex A), the sub-borrower will provide sufficient information for PB to determine
the environmental category of proposed sub project. Application form described in annex A will be a
part of a sub-loan application package.

The screening report should describe relevant aspects to be addressed in the course of assessment,
especially when dealing with radioactive traceing materials, animal testing and use of cancerogenic and
mutagenic substances. In form provided in annex B, PB and PIU will request additional information if
needed.

The following examples of sub-borrowers/sub-projects and their suggested categorization are indicative
only and will need to be reviewed throughout STP II implementation to assess their appropriateness
concerning the types of sub-projects which are actually submitted to the PBs. As it would be
impossible for this list to be exhaustive, sub-borrowers/sub-projects which cannot be identified as
                                                                                                         7



belonging to one of the categories below should be brought to the attention of the PIU to transmit to the
IBRD environmental specialist for further guidance.

Activities Generally Ineligible for IBRD financing

        1.    Trade in wildlife and wildlife products prohibited under the CITES convention,
        2.    Release of genetically altered organisms into the natural environment,
        3.    Manufacturing, distribution and sale of banned pesticides and herbicides,
        4.    Drift seine netting in the marine environment,
        5.    Manufacturing, handling and disposal of radioactive products,
        6.    Hazardous waste storage, treatment and disposal,
        7.    Manufacturing of equipment and appliances containing CFCs, halons and other substances
              regulated under the Montreal Protocol,
        8.    Manufacturing of electrical equipment containing polychlorinate biphenyls (PCBs) in
              excess of 0,005 % by weight,
        9.    Manufacturing of asbestos containing products,
        10.   Nuclear reactors and parts thereof,
        11.   Tobacco, unmanufactured or manufactured,
        12.   Tobacco processing machinery, and
        13.   Manufacturing of firearms.


For the purpose of the project in licensed research laboratories, the use small amount of radioactive
trace materials will be allowed for use following the due diligence described.

Category A activities which will not be financed through the sub-lending scheme

A proposed sub-project is classified in this category, if it is likely to have highly significant, diverse,
and/or long-term adverse impacts on human health and natural environment, the magnitude of which is
difficult to determine at the sub-project identification stage. These impacts may also affect an area
broader than the sub-project sites. Measures for mitigating such environmental risks may be complex
and costly.

These projects coincide with Annex 1 of the national Regulation on EIA. In addition, although
probably covered in annex A, projects that would be characterized by environmental sensitivity of the
planned location and surroundings and nature and magnitude of impacts might be of high magnitude
shell be excluded.



Category B+ activities which may be financed through the sub-lending scheme, subject
to positive EIA conclusion by the Ministry of Enivironmental and Nature Protection or
include projects with short term environmental impacts (EIA report and/or EMPs
required)

These would include sub-projects which may have significant, negative and/or short-term
environmental impacts, the magnitude of which are difficult to determine at the sub-project
identification stage. A full EIA (if recommended by the MENP, or included in the annex 2 or 3 of the
National Regulation on EIA) (see annex C), otherwise EMP (see annex D) would be prepared by the
sub-borrower. The costs of the mitigation measures would be included in the EIA / EMP and
incorporated in the tendering documentation if applicable. If PB determines that it is not easy to
                                                                                                        8



classify the project, it will advise PIU and the Bank. The environmental due diligence documents
would as well describe and assess testing phase of the product if applicable.

Category B- activities which may be financed through the sub-lending scheme (EA
report and EMPs required)

This category includes sub-projects which may have intermediate levels of regular and accidental
emissions and typical simple construction related impacts. There might include:

    a)   all construction of buildings or any infrastructure not included in Annex 2 or 3 of the national
         EIA regulation for which full EMPs would be prepared.

    b) all physical investments (rehabilitation, refurbishing, etc) on existing buildings for which
       EMP checklist would be applicable

    c)   all projects involving assembling for which Material Environmental Management Plan
         (MEMP) would be prepared. This MEMP includes identification of materials and processes
         used (mechanical, chemical, etc), and good laboratory and engineering practices. The checklist
         should be accompanied with MSDS (Material safety data sheets) for all identified materials
         used. The environmental due diligence documents would as well describe and assess testing
         phase if applicable.

If the radioactive trace material will be used for medical or pharmaceutical research for example, or
cancerogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic, the handling practices will be in detail explained together
with supplying and disposal techniques. In addition, all licenses for handing these materials and
accreditation of the laboratories should be submitted with the MEMP checklist. Same practice would
be followed when testing is done on laboratory animals.

Category C activities which may be financed through the sub-lending scheme

These would include sub-projects whose environmental impacts are expected to be negligible,
for which no EA would be required. Example of these is IT software development and other
non physical intellectual work.



IV.4     Environmental Assessment – Environmental due diligence documents

An Environmental Assessment (EA) is a process conducted by the sub-borrower to identify, predict,
evaluate, and mitigate the environmental impacts and risks which may arise from the proposed
sub-project. The purpose of the EA is to recognize environmental impacts/consequences early in the
sub-project preparation process, so that they can be incorporated into the sub-project design. The scope
of Environmental Assessment will depend on the environmental category attached to each sub-project,
though the purpose of any type of assessment is to identify ways of environmental improving the
proposed activities by minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for their adverse impacts. An
Environmental Management Plan alone will serve as environmental assessment report or should be
made an integral part of an environmental assessment report, which lists environmental risks related to
the specific types of sub-project activities and prescribes mitigation measures. EAs identify ways of
improving sub-projects environmentally by minimizing, mitigating or compensating for adverse
impacts. An EA would also describe the steps that were taken for public consultation.

For Category B +

Three types of documents might be required:
                                                                                                       9



    a)   A full EIA would be required for Category B+ if the proposed project is listed in Annex 2 or 3
         of the National EIA regulation and positive opinion given by the MENP. The EIA will be
         prepared according to national regulation and will undergo national approval system. In
         addition to EIA the sub-borrower will prepare EMP. This implies two public disclosures
         requesting comments (first on the scope EIA and second on the final draft) followed by public
         consultation of both EIA and EMP.

For category B – one type of environmental due diligence is expected

    a)   Material Environmental Management Plan (Annex F). This checklist includes identification
         of materials and processes used (mechanical, chemical, etc), and good laboratory and
         engineering practices. The checklist should be accompanied with MSDS (Material safety data
         sheets) for all identified materials used. The environmental due diligence documents would as
         well describe and assess testing phase if applicable.

    b) EMP will be prepared for category B - subprojects which include construction ofl new
       buildings and infrastructure that is not covered in annex 2 or 3 of the National EIA regulation.
       EMP will undergo one public disclosure and consultation. Content of the EMP is defined in
       Annex D.

    c)   EMP checklist will be prepared for rehabilitation of buildings not included in the annex 2 or 3
         of the National EIA regulation. The document will be publically disclosed requesting written
         comments. Sample of the EMP checklist for rehabilitation is presented in annex E.



If the radioactive trace material will be used, or cancerogenic, mutagenic and teratogenic, the handling
practices will be in detail explained together with supplying, and disposal techniques. In addition all
licenses for handing these materials and accreditation of the laboratories should be submitted with the
MEMP or any other environmental due diligence document required.

Handling sub projects that deal with biological and radiological hazards and those
with ethical issues
Supporting projects in research might involve scientific, medical or pharmacological research that will
deal with biological and radiological hazards (radiation trace materials) as well animal testing.

Biological agents represent potential for illness or injury due to single acute exposure or chronic
repetitive exposure. Biological hazards must be prevented most effectively by implementing the
following measures:
          - If the nature of the activity permits, use of any harmful biological agents should be
             avoided and replaced with an agent that, under normal conditions of use, is not dangerous
             or less dangerous to workers. If use of harmful agents cannot be avoided, precautions
             should be taken to keep the risk of exposure as low as possible and maintained below
             internationally established and recognized exposure limits.
          - Work processes, engineering, and administrative controls should be designed, maintained,
             and operated to avoid or minimize release of biological agents into the working
             environment. The number of employees exposed or likely to become exposed should be
             kept at a minimum.
          - The employer should review and assess known and suspected presence of biological
             agents at the place of work and implement appropriate safety measures, monitoring,
             training, and training verification programs.
                                                                                                       10



         -     Measures to eliminate and control hazards from known and suspected biological agents at
               the place of work should be designed, implemented and maintained in close co-operation
               with the local health authorities and according to recognized international standards.
The employer should at all times encourage and enforce the highest level of hygiene and personal
protection. Work involving agents should be restricted only to those persons who have received
specific verifiable training in working with and controlling such materials.

AS Croatian legislation is in line with the EU legislation, laboratories applying for sub project support
should submit in addition to relevant due diligence document the following:
         - Type and quantity of biological agent use
         - License for the use of the same
         - Describe practices of handling such materials, especially disposal practices
         - Describe storing and handling practices
         - All other defined by the Law on Chemicals (Official Gazette 150/2005,49/2011) – see
            Annex G


Radiation exposure can lead to potential discomfort, injury or serious illness to workers. Prevention
and control strategies should include:
         - Places of work involving occupational and/or natural exposure to ionizing radiation
              should be established and operated in accordance with recognized international safety
              standards and guidelines.
         - The acceptable effective dose limits are presented in the etable bellow




In the case of both ionizing and non-ionizing radiation, the preferred method for controlling exposure is
shielding and limiting the radiation source
AS Croatian legislation is in line with the EU legislation, laboratories applying for sub project support
should submit in addition to relevant due diligence document the following:
         - Type and quantity of radiological trace agent use
         - License for the use of the same
         - Describe practices of handling such materials, especially disposal practices
         - Describe procurement of the material
         - Describe storing and handling practices
         - All other defined by the Law on radiological and nuclear safety (Official Gazette
              28/2010) – see Annex H
Every natural or legal person, government body or a body of local and regional governments in the
exercise of certain activities intends to use sources of ionizing radiation must obtain prior authorization
                                                                                                        11



for work with ionizing radiation. Permission to carry out activities with sources of ionizing radiation
gives the Director of State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety. The process of obtaining
approval depends on the type of activities and resources that in performing these activities is used.
Request for approval to conduct activities to the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety
must be submitted in the appropriate form and attached all required documents.

For carrying out activities with radioactive substances is not required to obtain prior authorization for
work if one of the following conditions:

    1.   total activity or activity concentration of radionuclides involved in the activity does not exceed
         the value determined by the Rules on conditions and measures for protection against ionizing
         radiation for activities with radioactive sources (OG 125/06),
    2.   activity or activity concentration of radionuclides in radioactive substances does not exceed
         the value specified in the Regulations on conditions and measures for protection against
         ionizing radiation for activities with radioactive sources (OG 125/06).

    Upon purchase and registration of ionizing radiation source, and prior to its use, the authorization
    holder or user, should the Bureau of Radiation Protection to obtain permission to use it. Permission
    to use, except in the case of open radioactive sources, issues the State Office for Radiation
    Protection for ionizing radiation source that is registered in a central register of ionizing radiation.


The ethical issues faced by the pharmaceutical or biotechnology institutes are potentially complex and
depend significantly on the activity of the institution. These issues may include the animal testing;

Recommended bioethics management approaches include:
         - Well established ethics mechanisms including management commitment; access and use
            of external expertise (e.g. consultants and advisory boards); internal training and
            accountability mechanisms; communications programs to engage with suppliers and
            external stakeholders; and evaluation and reporting mechanisms;
         - Adherence to internationally accepted ethical principles applicable to genetic research,
            clinical trials involving human participants, and any other activities with critical
            bioethical issues;
         - The use of animals for experimental and scientific purposes should be conducted
            according to industry good and Croatian Law on Animal Protection (articles attached)
            practice which includes reduction of the numbers of animals used in each study to the
            absolute minimum necessary to obtain valid results and refinement of the use of research
            animals to use less painful or the least invasive procedures whenever possible.
AS Croatian legislation is in line with the EU legislation, laboratories applying for sub project support
should submit in addition to relevant due diligence document the following:
         - Species and number of animal used
         - License for the use of the same
         - Describe practices of handling animals, especially disposal practices
         - Describe procurement of the animals
         - Describe storing and handling practices
         - All other defined by the Law on Animal Protection (Official Gazette 135/2006) – see
            Annex I




IV.5     Environmental Review Process (Role of PBs, PIUs and WB)
                                                                                                      12



All sub-borrowers/sub-projects will follow the environmental review process presented schematically
below.

STEP 1: The sub-borrower prepares an initial sub-project application, filling, among the others the
Environmental Screening Form presented in Annex A. Following informal discussion with the PB, in
which the PB alerts the sub-borrower of its environmental assessment requirements, the PB assists the
sub-borrower in finalizing the Environmental Screening Form if needed. At this time, it is the
responsibility of the sub-borrower to initiate discussions with the MENP in order to fulfill any local and
national environmental review requirements (such as investment incentive certificate and/or other
official approval/permits). It will be the responsibility of the sub-borrower to obtain the appropriate
permits and licenses as required by national law in order to facilitate the clearance process with the
MENP. These requirements are considered separate, but parallel, to those presented here and satisfying
them is the responsibility of the sub-borrower.

STEP 2: The PB screens the sub-project and informs the sub-borrower of the environmental category
(annex B) and provides info follow-up requirements for sub-loan processing (for example on testing or
use of radioactive trace materials).

STEP 3: The sub-borrower, or its consultants, submits the environmental due diligence document (if
applicable). The sub-borrower will obtain a positive EIA report, given by the MENP, in conformity
with applicable Environmental Regulations for the activities under Category B +.

STEP 4: The PB reviews the environmental due diligence document that has been submitted and
reports its findings to the sub-borrower. The PB provides its clearance once the analysis is judged to be
satisfactory. In case where radioactive trace materials will used or cancerogenic, teratogenic or
mutagenic substances, as well as animal testing conducted, the PB will advise PIU and WB on quality
of the environmental due diligence document.

STEP 5: The sub-borrower incorporates the recommendations provided in the analysis into the sub-
project design and implementation plan, including associated estimated costs.

STEP 6: The PB finalizes the sub-loan application package, including the relevant environmental
documentation.

STEP 7: The PB monitors the implementation of the EIA mitigation plan (if necessary) and informs
the PIU.

Prior and Post-Review – WB/PIU. Environmental evaluations and review procedures will be subject
to ad-hoc review by the PIU and WB supervision missions. WB will perform: a) prior review and
clearance of all sub-projects falling in B+ requiring full EIA and EMP, as well as those involving use
of radioactive materials, mutagenic, teratogenic or cancerogenic substance and b) post review for all
other projects. The review of evaluations will ensure that: the work was of satisfactory quality,
community participation took place when appropriate, the appropriate recommendations were made, all
documentation was properly filed and recorded, and that the conditions of approval by the MENP were
met. During STP II preparation and implementation, PIU together with WB representatives will
supervise the overall screening process and implementation of environmental recommendations for
selected sub-borrowers/sub-projects. PIU’s and WB supervision team will also review, ad-hoc,
environmental documentation. Therefore, all this documentation should be kept on file with the PBs
and forwarded to the PIU as needed.

The diagram of the steps to follow is presented in the next pages as well as responsibilities of different
parties.
                                                                                                                              13




                                                                      - Fill in the Environmental Screening Form in
                                                 SB- sub-             application package
                                                 borrower             - Presents project to PB for screening



                                                                        -Screens the sub project according to EMF
                                                                        -Requests additional information from sub
                                                  Project               borrower if required
                                                                        -- Advises with PIU and WB if not certain on
                                                Beneficiary             assigning the category
                                                   (PB)                 - Assigns environmental category of the sub project




  Not
                                 Eligible                               Eligible                         Eligible
eligible
                                        Inform the SB on Cat and due diligence



           Prepares environmental due
           diligence document                     SB

                                                                   Approves the document and explains
                                                  PB               disclosure and consultation




                                                  SB                 Proceeds with disclosure and
                                                                     consultation




                                                                      Provides final document with the
                                              PB/PIU                  minutes to PIU
                                                                      Proceeds with supervision




                                                                      Reports on implementation of
                                                   SB                 environmental due diligence
                                                                      documents
                                                                                                              14



      Responsibilities of Key Participants



Participant           Activity                                                 Supporting Documentation

Sub-beneficiary          Submission of sub-project concept to PB                 Copies of permits, licenses
                         Arrangement and financing of environmental due          Clearance statement
                          diligence documents                                     Periodic reports and sub-project
                         Obtain required permits/licenses                         completion report
                         Implementing and financing of environmental due
                          diligence

Participating            Finalize the environmental screening form, assign       Include environmental information
Financial                 the environmental category                               with sub-loan application
Institutions –           Review of sub-loan application package for              Include environmental monitoring /
Project Beneficiary       required environmental documentation and                 supervising information in regular
(PBs)                     licences/permits from the State authorities              portfolio reporting to PIU
                         Maintain complete files of environmental                Include                 environmental
                          documentation for review by the PIU and WB               documentation in normal PB records
                         Monitoring compliance with mitigation plans (if         Periodic monitoring / supervising
                          necessary)                                               reports (if necessary)



PIU                      Distribution of Operational manual to PBs               Include environmental category and
                         Assist to the PBs about environmental                    EIA status in normal periodic
                          requirements                                             reporting activities
                         Verification that PBs have followed EIA
                          procedures

WB                       Organize training for PB and PIU staff regarding        Provide assistance
                          environmental review procedures                         Document       status of    project
                         Carry out prior and post reviews                         implementation in Implementation
                         Identification of problems/ issues and proposal of       Status and Results reports and the
                          solutions                                                mission Aide-Memoires
Annex A: Environmental Screening Form



  PART 1: APPLICATION (filled by applicants)
  Sub-beneficiary
  PROJECT TITLE
  Scope of project and
  activity – project
  description
  Institution
  supporting/supervising
  the project
  What are the potential
  environmental impacts
  of the project?
  TESTING
  Will the project finance
  testing phase?
  Please describe testing
  phase
  Please specify outdoor or
  indoor?
  PERMITS
  What permits are
  required for project
  preparation and / or
  testing?
  PART 2: SCREENING (filled by applicants, checked by PB)
  Screening category    Annex 1                         Yes                No   
  according to national Annex 2                         Yes                No   
  Regulation on EIA     Annex 3                         Yes                No   
                        No annex                        Yes                No   
  If no annex:          Does      it   include    construction   or
                        rehabilitation      of     buildings     or   Yes           No 
                        infrastructure?
                        Does it include assembling?                   Yes           No 
                        Does this sub project include software
                        development or similar IT work?               Yes           No 
                        Does the project include use of radioactive
                        material?                                     Yes           No 
                              If so what and for what purposes?
                              What quantities for the project
                                  purpose?
                              What accreditation laboratory has
                                  for use of such materials?
                        Does the project include use of
                        cancerogenic, theratogenic or mutagenic       Yes           No 
                        substances?
                              If so what substances and for
                                  what purposes?
                              What quantities?
                              What accreditation laboratory has
                                  for use of such materials?
                          Does the project predict testing on        Yes      No 
                          animals?
                               If so what substances and for
                                   what purposes?
                               What animals?
                               What accreditation laboratory has
                                   for testing?
                          Does the project include Activities        Yes      No 
                          Generally Ineligible for IBRD financing?

Signature
Confirming truthfulness
of the provided in the
table




                                                                                      16
Annex B: Environmental Category Form

  PART 1: SCREENING RESULTS (filled by PB)
  Screening
  category
  according to the A              B+                        B-                   C
  project
  framework
  EXPLANATION
  DUE DILIGENCE

  Category A
                  Will not be financed by the project
  Category B +
                  aEIA if project included in annex 2 or 3 of the Regulation on EIA

  Category B -
                  Material EMP together with the necessary licenses and MSDSs
                  EMP or EMP checklist

  Category C
                  No due diligence

  Additional
  explanation
  required




                                                                                      17
Annex C: Minimum requirement for projects that would require full EIA according to decision of
Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection

The EA report should include the following items (not necessarily in the order shown):

(a) Executive summary. Concisely discusses significant findings and recommended actions.

(b) Policy, legal, and administrative framework. Discusses the policy, legal, and administrative framework within
which the EA is carried out. Explains the environmental requirements of any cofinanciers. Identifies relevant
international environmental agreements to which the country is a party.

(c) Project description. Concisely describes the proposed project and its geographic, ecological, social, and
temporal context, including any offsite investments that may be required (e.g., dedicated pipelines, access roads,
power plants, water supply, housing, and raw material and product storage facilities). Indicates the need for any
resettlement plan or indigenous peoples development plan. Normally includes a map showing the project site and
the project's area of influence.

(d) Baseline data. Assesses the dimensions of the study area and describes relevant physical, biological, and
socioeconomic conditions, including any changes anticipated before the project commences. Also takes into
account current and proposed development activities within the project area but not directly connected to the
project. Data should be relevant to decisions about project location, design, operation, or mitigatory measures. The
section indicates the accuracy, reliability, and sources of the data.

(e) Environmental impacts. Predicts and assesses the project's likely positive and negative impacts, in quantitative
terms to the extent possible. Identifies mitigation measures and any residual negative impacts that cannot be
mitigated. Explores opportunities for environmental enhancement. Identifies and estimates the extent and quality of
available data, key data gaps, and uncertainties associated with predictions, and specifies topics that do not require
further attention.

(f) Analysis of alternatives.3 Systematically compares feasible alternatives to the proposed project site, technology,
design, and operation--including the "without project" situation--in terms of their potential environmental impacts;
the feasibility of mitigating these impacts; their capital and recurrent costs; their suitability under local conditions;
and their institutional, training, and monitoring requirements. For each of the alternatives, quantifies the
environmental impacts to the extent possible, and attaches economic values where feasible. States the basis for
selecting the particular project design proposed and justifies recommended emission levels and approaches to
pollution prevention and abatement.

(g) Environmental management plan (EMP). Covers mitigation measures, monitoring, and institutional
strengthening;

(h) Appendixes

(i) List of EA report preparers--individuals and organizations.

(ii) References--written materials both published and unpublished, used in study preparation.

(iii) Record of interagency and consultation meetings, including consultations for obtaining the informed views of
the affected people and local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). The record specifies any means other than
consultations (e.g., surveys) that were used to obtain the views of affected groups and local NGOs.

(iv) Tables presenting the relevant data referred to or summarized in the main text.

(v) List of associated reports (e.g., resettlement plan or indigenous peoples development plan).


                                                                                                                     18
Annex D: Template for Environmental Management Plan

1. A project's environmental management plan (EMP) consists of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan also includes the actions needed to implement these
measures.1 Management plans are essential elements of EA reports for Category A projects; for many Category B
projects, the EA may result in a management plan only. To prepare a management plan, the borrower and its EA
design team (a) identify the set of responses to potentially adverse impacts; (b) determine requirements for ensuring
that those responses are made effectively and in a timely manner; and (c) describe the means for meeting those
requirements.2 More specifically, the EMP includes the following components.

Mitigation

2. The EMP identifies feasible and cost-effective measures that may reduce potentially significant adverse
environmental impacts to acceptable levels. The plan includes compensatory measures if mitigation measures are
not feasible, cost-effective, or sufficient. Specifically, the EMP

(a) identifies and summarizes all anticipated significant adverse environmental impacts (including those involving
indigenous people or involuntary resettlement);

(b) describes--with technical details--each mitigation measure, including the type of impact to which it relates and
the conditions under which it is required (e.g., continuously or in the event of contingencies), together with designs,
equipment descriptions, and operating procedures, as appropriate;

(c) estimates any potential environmental impacts of these measures; and

(d) provides linkage with any other mitigation plans (e.g., for involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, or
cultural property) required for the project.


Monitoring

3. Environmental monitoring during project implementation provides information about key environmental aspects
of the project, particularly the environmental impacts of the project and the effectiveness of mitigation
measures. Such information enables the borrower and the Bank to evaluate the success of mitigation as part of
project supervision, and allows corrective action to be taken when needed. Therefore, the EMP identifies
monitoring objectives and specifies the type of monitoring, with linkages to the impacts assessed in the EA report
and the mitigation measures described in the EMP. Specifically, the monitoring section of the EMP provides(a) a
specific description, and technical details, of monitoring measures, including the parameters to be measured,
methods to be used, sampling locations, frequency of measurements, detection limits (where appropriate), and
definition of thresholds that will signal the need for corrective actions; and (b) monitoring and reporting procedures
to (i) ensure early detection of conditions that necessitate particular mitigation measures, and (ii) furnish information
on the progress and results of mitigation.

Capacity Development and Training

4. To support timely and effective implementation of environmental project components and mitigation measures,
the EMP draws on the EA's assessment of the existence, role, and capability of environmental units on site or at the
agency and ministry level.3 If necessary, the EMP recommends the establishment or expansion of such units, and
the training of staff, to allow implementation of EA recommendations. Specifically, the EMP provides a specific
description of institutional arrangements--who is responsible for carrying out the mitigatory and monitoring
measures (e.g., for operation, supervision, enforcement, monitoring of implementation, remedial action, financing,
reporting, and staff training). To strengthen environmental management capability in the agencies responsible for
implementation, most EMPs cover one or more of the following additional topics: (a) technical assistance programs,
(b) procurement of equipment and supplies, and (c) organizational changes.

                                                                                                                     19
Implementation Schedule and Cost Estimates

5. For all three aspects (mitigation, monitoring, and capacity development), the EMP provides (a) an
implementation schedule for measures that must be carried out as part of the project, showing phasing and
coordination with overall project implementation plans; and (b) the capital and recurrent cost estimates and sources
of funds for implementing the EMP. These figures are also integrated into the total project cost tables.

Integration of EMP with Project

6. The borrower's decision to proceed with a project, and the Bank's decision to support it, are predicated in part on
the expectation that the EMP will be executed effectively. Consequently, the Bank expects the plan to be specific in
its description of the individual mitigation and monitoring measures and its assignment of institutional
responsibilities, and it must be integrated into the project's overall planning, design, budget, and implementation.
Such integration is achieved by establishing the EMP within the project so that the plan will receive funding and
supervision along with the other components.


The EMP will contain following chapters:

1. GENERAL PROJECT AND SITE INFORMATION
1.1. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
        Project title
        Project location
        Project purpose
        Scope of project and activity
1.2. LEGISLATION and ADMINISTRATION
        National legislation
1.3. STATUS OF PROJECT DESIGN DOCUMENTATION AND PERMITS
        Ownership of the land or the object
        Type of document or permit
2. DESCRIPTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT (BASELINE CONDITIONS)
        General description of project site environment
        Physical environment
        Socio-cultural environment
3. DETERMINATION OF THE POTENTIAL IMPACTS
4. MITIGATION AND MONITORING PLAN
Mitigation Plan

Construction Phase

                  Expected                                      Responsibility     for
                                       Proposed Measure for                                 Period of Implementing
Activity          Environmental                                 Implementing
                                       Mitigation                                           Mitigation Measure
                  Impact                                        Mitigation Measure

1.

2.

…

Operation Phase



                                                                                                                  20
1.

2.

…



Monitoring Plan

Construction Phase

What                 Where              How                      When                      By Whom

parameter is to      is the parameter   is the parameter to be   is the parameter to be    is the parameter to be
be monitored?        to            be   monitored                monitored                 monitored–
                     monitored?         (what     should    be   (timing and frequency)?   (responsibility)?
                                        measured and how)?

1.

2.

…

Operation Phase

1.

2.

…




                                                                                                              21
Annex E: EMP checklist for rehabilitation

                      CHECKLIST ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)



                                for the small reconstructions and rehabilitations




Potential Environmental Impacts

The environmental impacts of the sub project are expected to be of manageable, temporary and of local impact as
they are related to the general construction activities on already known and previously used locations. These impacts
most commonly include: a) Dust and noise due to excavation, demolition and construction; b) Management of
demolition construction wastes and accidental spillage of machine oil, lubricants, etc., c) Encroachment to a private
property; d) damage to historical or cultural property or unknown archaeological sites; e) Traffic disturbance; (f)
surface or ground water and g) soil pollution or erosion.



CHECKLIST EMP

Checklist EMP is applied for minor rehabilitation or small-scale building construction. It provides “pragmatic good
practice? and it is designed to be user friendly and compatible with WB safeguard requirements. The checklist-type
format attempts to cover typical mitigation approaches to common civil works contracts with localized impacts.

The checklist has one introduction section and three main parts:

 Introduction or foreword part in which the project is introduced, environmental category defined, and checklist
  EMP concept explained.
 Part 1 constitutes a descriptive part (“site passport?) that describes the project specifics in terms of physica l
  location, the institutional and legislative aspects, the project description, inclusive of the need for a capacity
  building program and description of the public consultation process.
 Part 2 includes the environmental and social screening in a simple Yes/No format followed by mitigation
  measures for any given activity.
 Part 3 is a monitoring plan for activities during project construction and implementation. It retains the same
  format required for standard World Bank EMPs. It is the intention of this checklist that Part 2 and Part 3 be
  included as bidding documents for contractors.
Application of the EMP-Checklist

The design process for the envisaged civil works in the Education Excellence and Equity Project will be conducted
in three phases:

    1) General identification and scoping phase, in which the objects (e.g. schools) for rehabilitation, extension
       and/or construction are selected and an approximate program for the potential work typologies elaborated.
       At this stage, Part 1, 2 and 3 of the Checklist EMP are filled. Part 2 of the Checklist EMP can be used to
       select typical activities from a “menu? and relate them to the typical environmental issues and mitigation
       measures.

                                                                                                                  22
    2) Detailed design and tendering phase, including specifications and bills of quantities for individual objects.
       Checklist EMP is revised according to the detailed design at this stage. As such, the Checklist is presented
       to the public, prior to the tendering procedure. This phase also includes the tender and award of the works
       contracts. The whole filled in tabular EMP (Part 1, 2 and 3) should be additionally attached as integral part
       to the works contract as well as supervision contract, analogous to all technical and commercial terms, has
       to be signed by the contract parties.
    3) During the works implementation phase environmental compliance is checked on the respective site by the
       site certified inspector(s) / supervisor(s), which include the site supervisory engineer or supervisor of the
       project. The mitigation measures in Part 2 and monitoring plan in Part 3 are the basis to verify the
       Contractor’s or project investor compliance with the required environmental provisions.



MONITORING AND REPORTING

For the monitoring of the safeguards due diligence, the site supervisor works with Part 3 of the EMP Checklist, i.e.
with the monitoring plan. Part 3 is developed site specifically and in necessary detail, defining clear mitigation
measures and monitoring which can be included in the works contracts, which reflect the status of environmental
practice on the construction site and which can be observed/measured/ quantified/verified by the inspector during
the construction works.

Such mitigation measures include the use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) by workers on the site, dust
generation and prevention, amount of water used and discharged by site, presence of proper sanitary facilities for
workers, waste collection of separate types (mineral waste, wood, metals, plastic, hazardous waste, e.g. asbestos,
paint residues, spent engine oil), waste quantities, proper organization of disposal pathways and facilities, or reuse
and recycling wherever possible.

Reporting on implementation of practices should be described in the regular report toward PIU.




                                                                                                                  23
PART 1: INSTITUTIONAL & ADMINISTRATIVE
Sub- beneficiary
PROJECT TITLE
Scope of project and
activity – project
description
Institution supporting/
supervising the project
What are the potential
environmental impacts
of the project?
TESTING
Will the project finance
testing phase?
Please describe testing
phase
Please specify outdoor or
indoor?
PERMITS
What permits are
required for project
preparation and / or
testing?
PART 2: SCREENING (filled by applicants, checked by PA)
Screening category    Annex 1                         Yes                No   
according to national Annex 2                         Yes                No   
Regulation on EIA     Annex 3                         Yes                No   
                      No annex                        Yes                No   
If no annex:          Does      it   include    construction   or
                      rehabilitation      of     buildings     or   Yes           No 
                      infrastructure?
                      Does it include assembling?                   Yes           No 
                      Does this sub project include software
                      development or similar IT work?               Yes           No 
                      Does the project include use of radioactive
                      material?                                     Yes           No 
                            If so what and for what purposes?
                            What quantities?
                            What accreditation laboratory has
                                for use of such materials?
                      Does the project include use of
                      cancerogenic, theratogenic or mutagenic       Yes           No 
                      substances?
                            If so what substances and for
                                what purposes?
                            What quantities?
                            What accreditation laboratory has
                                for use of such materials?
                      Does the project predicts testing on          Yes           No 
                      animals?
                            If so what substances and for
                                what purposes?
                                                                                          24
                                 What animals?
                                 What accreditation laboratory has
                                  for testing?
                          Does the project include Activities         Yes      No 
                          Generally Ineligible for IBRD financing?

Signature
Confirming truthfulness
of the provided in the
table




                                                                                       25
PART 2: ENVIRONMENTAL /SOCIAL SCREENING

Will the site       Activity                                                                   Status              Additional references
activity            A. Building rehabilitation                                    [ ] Yes [] No                    See Section B below
include/involve     B. New construction                                           [ ] Yes [ ] No                   See Section B below
any of the          C. Individual wastewater treatment system                     [ ] Yes [ ] No                   See Section C below
following:          D. Historic building(s) and districts                         [ ] Yes [ ] No [ ] Possible      See Section D below
                    E. Acquisition of land2                                       [ ] Yes [] No                    See Section E below
                    F. Hazardous or toxic materials3                              [ ] Yes [ ] No                   See Section F below
                    G. Impacts on forests and/or protected areas                  [ ] Yes [ ] No                   See Section G below
                    H. Handling / management of medical waste                     [ ] Yes [ ] No                   See Section H below
                    I. Traffic and Pedestrian Safety                              [ ] Yes [ ] No                   See Section I below


   ACTIVITY                  PARAMETER                  MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
A. General           Notification and Worker Safety     (a) The local construction and environment inspectorates and communities have been notified of
Conditions                                                  upcoming activities
                                                        (b) The public has been notified of the works through appropriate notification in the media and/or at
                                                            publicly accessible sites (including the site of the works)
                                                        (c) All legally required permits have been acquired for construction and/or rehabilitation
                                                        (d) All work will be carried out in a safe and disciplined manner designed to minimize impacts on
                                                            neighboring residents and environment.
                                                        (e) Workers’ PPE will comply with international good practice (always hardhats, as needed masks and
                                                            safety glasses, harnesses and safety boots)
                                                        (f) Appropriate signposting of the sites will inform workers of key rules and regulations to follow.
B. General                     Air Quality              (a) During interior demolition use debris-chutes above the first floor
Rehabilitation                                          (b) Keep demolition debris in controlled area and spray with water mist to reduce debris dust
and /or                                                 (c) Suppress dust during pneumatic drilling/wall destruction by ongoing water spraying and/or installing
Construction                                                dust screen enclosures at site
Activities                                              (d) Keep surrounding environment (side walks, roads) free of debris to minimize dust
                                                        (e) There will be no open burning of construction / waste material at the site
                                                        (f) There will be no excessive idling of construction vehicles at sites

2
  Land acquisitions includes displacement of people, change of livelihood encroachment on private property this is to land that is purchased/transferred and
affects people who are living and/or squatters and/or operate a business (kiosks) on land that is being acquired.
3
   Toxic / hazardous material includes and is not limited to asbestos, toxic paints, removal of lead paint, etc.



                                                                                                                                                            26
  ACTIVITY            PARAMETER           MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
                         Noise            (a) Construction noise will be limited to restricted times agreed to in the permit
                                          (b) During operations the engine covers of generators, air compressors and other powered mechanical
                                              equipment should be closed, and equipment placed as far away from residential areas as possible
                       Water Quality      (a) The site will establish appropriate erosion and sediment control measures such as e.g. hay bales and /
                                              or silt fences to prevent sediment from moving off site and causing excessive turbidity in nearby
                                              streams and rivers.
                     Waste management     (a) Waste collection and disposal pathways and sites will be identified for all major waste types
                                              expected from demolition and construction activities.
                                          (b) Mineral construction and demolition wastes will be separated from general refuse, organic, liquid
                                              and chemical wastes by on-site sorting and stored in appropriate containers.
                                          (c) Construction waste will be collected and disposed properly by licensed collectors
                                          (d) The records of waste disposal will be maintained as proof for proper management as designed.
                                          (e) Whenever feasible the contractor will reuse and recycle appropriate and viable materials (except
                                              asbestos)

C. Individual          Water Quality      (a) The approach to handling sanitary wastes and wastewater from building sites (installation or
wastewater                                    reconstruction) must be approved by the local authorities
treatment system                          (b) Before being discharged into receiving waters, effluents from individual wastewater systems must be
                                              treated in order to meet the minimal quality criteria set out by national guidelines on effluent quality
                                              and wastewater treatment
                                          (c) Monitoring of new wastewater systems (before/after) will be carried out
D. Historic           Cultural Heritage   (a) If the building is a designated historic structure, very close to such a structure, or located in a
building(s)                                   designated historic district, notify and obtain approval/permits from local authorities and address all
                                              construction activities in line with local and national legislation
                                          (b) Ensure that provisions are put in place so that artifacts or other possible “chance finds? encountered
                                              in excavation or construction are noted, officials contacted, and works activities delayed or modified
                                              to account for such finds.
E. Acquisition of     Land Acquisition    (a) If expropriation of land was not expected and is required, or if loss of access to income of legal or
land                  Plan/Framework          illegal users of land was not expected but may occur, that the bank task Team Leader is consulted.
                                          (b) The approved Land Acquisition Plan/Framework (if required by the project) will be implemented
F. Toxic            Asbestos management   (a) If asbestos is located on the project site, mark clearly as hazardous material
Materials                                 (b) When possible the asbestos will be appropriately contained and sealed to minimize exposure
                                          (c) The asbestos prior to removal (if removal is necessary) will be treated with a wetting agent to
                                              minimize asbestos dust
                                          (d) Asbestos will be handled and disposed by skilled & experienced professionals
                                          (e) If asbestos material is be stored temporarily, the wastes should be securely enclosed inside closed



                                                                                                                                                 27
   ACTIVITY                 PARAMETER                   MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
PART 3 : MONITORING PLAN




                                                            containments and marked appropriately
                                                        (f) The removed asbestos will not be reused
                        Toxic / hazardous waste         (a) Temporarily storage on site of all hazardous or toxic substances will be in safe containers labeled
                             management                     with details of composition, properties and handling information
                                                        (b) The containers of hazardous substances should be placed in an leak-proof container to prevent
                                                            spillage and leaching
                                                        (c) The wastes are transported by specially licensed carriers and disposed in a licensed facility.
                                                        (d) Paints with toxic ingredients or solvents or lead-based paints will not be used
G. Affects forests             Protection               (a) All recognized natural habitats and protected areas in the immediate vicinity of the activity will not
and/or protected                                            be damaged or exploited, all staff will be strictly prohibited from hunting, foraging, logging or other
areas                                                       damaging activities.
                                                        (b) For large trees in the vicinity of the activity, mark and cordon off with a fence large tress and protect
                                                            root system and avoid any damage to the trees
                                                        (c) Adjacent wetlands and streams will be protected, from construction site run-off, with appropriate
                                                            erosion and sediment control feature to include by not limited to hay bales, silt fences
                                                        (d) There will be no unlicensed borrow pits, quarries or waste dumps in adjacent areas, especially not in
                                                            protected areas.
H. Disposal of       Infrastructure for medical waste   (a) In compliance with national regulations the contractor will insure that newly constructed and/or
medical waste                  management                   rehabilitated health care facilities include sufficient infrastructure for medical waste handling and
(not applicable)                                            disposal; this includes and not limited to:
                                                             Special facilities for segregated healthcare waste (including soiled instruments “sharps?, and
                                                                 human tissue or fluids) from other waste disposal; and
                                                             Appropriate storage facilities for medical waste are in place; and
                                                             If the activity includes facility-based treatment, appropriate disposal options are in place and
                                                                 operational




                                                                                                                                                                 28
                        What                                                     When
                                         Where                 How                                   Why                  Cost                  Who
                       (Will the                                                (Define the
                                     (Is the parameter    (Is the parameter                     (Is the parameter   (if not included in   (Is responsible for
    Phase            parameter be                                             frequency / or
                                    to be monitored?)    to be monitored?)                     being monitored?)      project budget)        monitoring?)
                      monitored?)                                              continuity?)
prepara
activity
 During



  tion
  implementation
   During activity
supervisi
 activity
 During



   on




                                                                                                                                                          29
Annex F: Material EMP

MATERIAL EMP



Sub-beneficiary
PROJECT TITLE
Scope of project and activity – project description
Institution supporting/ supervising the project
What are the potential environmental impacts of the project?
TESTING
Please describe testing phase
PERMITS

What permits are required for project preparation and / or testing? 4



List all materials that will be used in the process, hazardous material should be identified according to legislation on chemicals (Annex F). The MSDS sheets and
all the permits should be attached to the final document

The overall objective of hazardous materials management is to avoid or, when avoidance is not feasible, minimize uncontrolled releases of hazardous materials
or accidents (including explosion and fire) during their production, handling, storage and use. This objective can be achieved by:

       -   Where practicable, avoiding or minimizing the use of hazardous materials.
       -   Preventing uncontrolled releases of hazardous materials to the environment or uncontrolled reactions that might result in fire or explosion;
       -   Using engineering controls commensurate with the nature of hazard;
       -   Implementing management controls (procedures, inspections, communications, training, and drills) to address residual risks that have not been
           prevented or controlled through engineering measures.



4
    All permits should be attached to the final document



                                                                                                                                                              30
                                                                      5           According to the Law on
List of materials / chemicals that are going to   If possible assign CAS number                                Please assign category according to the
                                                                          6       chemicals is this material
be used                                           to material / chemicals                                      Law on chemicals, Article 2 (Annex F )
                                                                                  hazardous

                                                                                  Y/N




5
    Chemical Abstracts Service Number
6
    MSDS sheets should be attached to the final document



                                                                                                                                                   31
     ACTIVITY             PARAMETER                 MITIGATION MEASURES CHECKLIST
                         Waste management           (f) Waste collection and disposal pathways and sites will be identified for all major waste types
                                                        expected from demolition and construction activities.
                                                    (g) Assembling waste will be collected and disposed properly by licensed collectors
                                                    (h) The records of waste disposal will be maintained as proof for proper management as designed.
                                                    (i) Whenever feasible the contractor will reuse and recycle appropriate and viable materials (except
                                                        asbestos)


                      Toxic / hazardous waste /     (e) Temporarily storage on site of all hazardous or toxic substances will be in safe containers labeled
                       materials management             with details of composition, properties and handling information according to MSDS sheets
                                                    (f) The containers of hazardous substances should be placed in an leak-proof container to prevent
                                                        spillage and leaching
                                                    (g) The wastes are transported by specially licensed carriers and disposed in a licensed facility.
                                                    (h) Paints with toxic ingredients or solvents or lead-based paints will not be used
                                                    (i) All materials used should be identified and MSDS sheets printed out




Assembling and Testing Phase

What                     Where                    How                               When                                  By Whom
parameter is to be       is the parameter to be   is the parameter to be            is the parameter to be monitored      is the parameter to be monitored–
monitored?               monitored?               monitored         (what should    (timing and frequency)?               (responsibility)?
                                                  be measured and how)?
1.

2.




                                                                                                                                                           32
…




    33
Annex G: Excerpts on Law on Chemicals (Official Gazette 150/2005, 49/2011):



Article 2

9. Dangerous chemicals are classified as the following chemicals:

a) explosive chemicals are solid, liquid substances in the form of paste or jelly, which can be exothermic reactive, even in the
absence of oxygen from the air; very quickly create and emit gases under certain conditions, detonate, quickly ignite or due to
warming and high pressure explode

b) oxidizing chemicals are substances and preparations which react when in contact with other substances (especially flammable)

c) (very easy) flammable chemicals are those liquid substances and preparations having an extremely low flash point and low
boiling point, and gaseous substances and preparations which are flammable in contact with air at normal temperature and
pressure,

d) easily flammable chemicals are:

- Substances and preparations flammable in contact with air, at normal temperature and pressure without bringing in an outside
power

- Solid substances and preparations which are easy to ignite in brief contact with flame source, and then continue to burn when
the flame source is removed,

- Liquid substances and preparations having a very low flame point,

- Substances and preparations which in contact with water or steam discharge dangerous quantities of flammable gases,

e) flammable chemicals are substances and preparations which have a low flash point,

f) very toxic chemicals are substances and preparations which, if swallowed or by skin contact and inhalation of very small
amounts can cause death or very serious acute or chronic damage to health,

g) toxic chemicals are substances and preparations which if swallowed or by skin contact and inhalation of small quantities can
cause death or very serious acute or chronic damage to health,

h) harmful chemicals are harmful substances and preparations which if swallowed or by skin contact and inhalation may cause
death or very serious acute or chronic damage to health,

i) corrosive chemicals are substances and preparations which, if in contact with healthy skin, may cause damage to all layers of
tissue,

j) irritant chemicals are substances and preparations which if in short, long or repeated contact with skin or mucous membranes
may cause infection,

k) chemicals that cause sensitization are substances and preparations which, if inhaled or after passing through the skin may
cause a hypersensitive reaction,

l) carcinogenic chemicals are substances and preparations which, after inhalation, ingestion, or passing through the skin may
cause cancer or increase the frequency of its occurrence,

m) mutagenic substances and preparations are substances that after inhalation, ingestion, or passing through the skin may cause
heritable genetic damage or significantly increase their occurrence,




                                                                                                                            34
n) teratogenic chemicas are substances and preparations which, after inhalation, ingestion or passage through the skin may cause
or increase the likelihood of nonhereditary adverse effects on offspring and / or disrupt the male or female reproductive functions
or after ingestion, inhalation, or passing through the skin (contact with skin) may affect fertility,

o) hazardous to environment are substances and preparations which, because of its caracteristics, quantities, and the introduction
into the environment can be harmful to the health of people, wildlife, and biological and landscape diversity.


Article 41

A legal person that uses hazardous chemicals for scientific purposes or in analytical laboratories must meet the requirements in
terms of special protection measures to work with hazardous chemicals in accordance with the regulations on occupational safety.




                                                                                                                               35
Annex H: Excerpts from Law on radiological and nuclear safety (Official Gazette 28/2010)



2. Measures of protection against ionizing radiation

Professional competence

Article 29

(1) Exposed workers must have appropriate education, and workers who handle ionizing radiation must have a special
professional training for the handling of sources of ionizing radiation.

(2) Exposed workers and workers who handle ionizing radiation must have special education on the application of measures for
protection against ionizing radiation.

 (4) Exposed workers and workers who handle ionizing radiation must periodically renew their knowledge about the application
of measures for protection against ionizing radiation.

Requirements for premises and equipment

Article 33

(1) Property, plant and equipment where the sources of ionizing radiation or practices involving ionizing radiation, ionizing
radiation sources, protective equipment and personal protective equipment located, must meet the requirements for ensuring
radiation safety and protection of people and the environment from ionizing radiation and contamination from radioactive
substances.

(2) The conditions referred to in paragraph 1 this Article shall be determined by ordinance adopted by the director of the National
Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Safety, with the consent of the Minister of Health.

Identification and implementation of measures to protect exposed workers and control jobs

Article 34

The holder of a license for work with ionizing radiation or the holder of the authorization to conduct nuclear activities must
ensure:

- Exposed workers healt check,

- Measuring personal doses of exposed workers,

- Education on the implementation of measures for protection against ionizing radiation for exposed workers,

- Review of ionizing radiation and working conditions and measurement of required elements,

- Quality assurance program and its implementation,

- Quality control,

- Personal protective equipment and equipment for exposed workers and checking the correctness of these equipment,

- Regular checking and calibration of measuring instruments;

- Checking the radioactive contamination of persons, objects, environment, facilities and air where sources of ionizing radiation
are placed .




                                                                                                                                 36
Annex I: Excerpts from Animal Protection Act (Official Gazette 135/2006)



Interventions on animals

Article 8

(1) The partial or total amputation of a sensitive part of the body of an animal shall be prohibited, including:

1. the marking of animals contrary to the provisions of special regulations,

2. ear cropping and tail docking in dogs, declawing of cats, devocalisation and other interventions aimed at changing the
phyenotypic appearance of the animal.

(2) By way of derogation from the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article, the partial or total amputation or removal of a
sensitive part of the body of an animal shall be permitted if performed with prior anaesthesia and post-operative analgesia and if
an intervention:

1. is justified for animal health reasons,

2. is performed for the purpose of conducting experiments on animals,

3. is performed for the purpose of controlling the reproduction of animals.

(3) By way of derogation from the provision of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, the partial or total amputation or removal of
sensitive parts of the body of an animal shall be permitted if undertaken for zootechnical purposes including castration, if such
intervention prevents pain, suffering and self-injury or injury to other animals, or for safety reasons, and in hunting dogs in
compliance with specified kennel standards, with the use of analgesia, in cases to be determined by the Minister.

(4) Interventions likely to cause suffering or severe pain to an animal may only be performed after analgesia or anaesthesia and if
post-operative care is provided.

(5) Anaesthesia shall not be used:

1. when the risks posed by anaesthesia would be disproportionate to its benefits,

2. during the marking of animals, unless necessary for the safety of the person carrying out the marking,

3. in certain diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in accordance with the rules of the profession,

4. when the pain caused by anaesthesia is greater than that caused by the intervention itself,

5. when it is incompatible with the results hoped to be achieved by the experiment.



Protection of animals at the time of humane killing

Article 9

(1) It is prohibited to kill animals contrary to the provisions of this Act.

(2) Special-purpose means and prescribed methods shall be used in the humane killing of animals.

(3) An animal may be humanely killed when:

1. medical treatment of the animal is likely to be long lasting and cause suffering, and the outcome of the treatment is uncertain,

                                                                                                                                    37
2. the animal has reached an advanced age and its vital functions are failing,

3. the animal is suffering from an incurable disease,

4. such procedure is necessary because of the implementation of disease control measures in accordance with the veterinary
legislation, in particular for those diseases that can threaten humans or cause great economic damage,

5. the animal constitutes a danger to the community,

6. the time period referred to in Article 57, paragraph 4 has elapsed, and in the case referred to in Article 55, paragraph 5 and
Article 65, paragraph 2 of this Act,

7. it is done for the purpose of pest control,

8. the animal kept or bred for production purposes is sick or injured, and slaughter or humane killing under the veterinarian ’s
supervision is not possible,

9. it is necessary for the purpose of performing an experiment on the animal or producing biological preparations or after the
completion of the experiment or after using the animal for the production of biological preparations.

(4) In the cases referred to in paragraph 3, items 1 and 2 of this Article, the decision on whether to humanely kill an animal shall
be taken by the owner of the animal, based on the opinion of a veterinarian and, in the cases referred to in items 3 to 9 of the
same paragraph, by a veterinarian, with the exception of the case referred to in item 8 of the same paragraph in which the
decision shall be taken by the owner of the animal.

(5) The humane killing of an animal may only be carried out by a veterinarian or qualified veterinary technician under the
supervision of a veterinarian, except in the following cases:

1. the humane killing of animals bred or kept for production purposes,

2. the humane killing of animals for the purposes of teaching, conducting experiments or producing biological preparations,

3. pest control,

4. when it is necessary to humanely kill an animal without delay because it suffers severe and incurable pain.



Treatment of animals that suffer from incurable pain

Article 10

The owner of an animal that suffers from severe and incurable pain must, without delay, have the animal humanely killed.



II. SPECIAL PROVISIONS

1. Protection of animals during transport

Article 11

(1) The transport of animals may be carried out by transporters who are authorised by the competent authority and those who
have obtained permission from the competent authority to carry out this activity.

(2) The competent authority shall keep a register of transporters of animals.




                                                                                                                                    38
(3) By way of derogation from the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, of Article 12, paragraph 2, item 5, and
Articles 13 and 14 of this Act, farmers may transport domestic animals using agricultural vehicles or other means of transport
belonging to them in the following cases:

– seasonal transhumance of animals to other climatic areas and

– transport of their own animals for a distance of up to 50 km from their holding.

(4) The provisions of Article 12, paragraph 2 to Article 15 of this Act shall not apply to the transport of animals which does not
take place in connection with an economic activity, to the transport of companion animals in one's own means of transport, and to
the transport of animals for the purposes of obtaining veterinary care.

(5) The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, of Article 12, paragraph 2, item 5, and Articles 13 and 14 of this Act,
shall not apply to persons transporting animals up to a maximum distance of 65 km counted from the place of departure to the
place of destination.



Requirements for the transport of animals

Article 12

(1) It is prohibited to transport animals in a way that causes them pain, suffering, injury or death.

(2) The following conditions must be complied with when transporting animals:

1. steps must be taken in advance to minimise the length of the journey and of any delay, and to meet the animals' needs during
the journey,

2. the animals must be fit for the journey,

3. the means of transport must be designed, constructed, maintained and operated so as to avoid injury and suffering and ensure
the safety of the animals,

4. the loading and unloading facilities and equipment must be designed, constructed, maintained and operated so as to avoid pain,
suffering and injury and ensure the safety of the animals,

5. the personnel handling animals must be trained,

6. the conditions of transport of animals must be regularly checked and maintained,

7. sufficient floor area and height must be provided for the animals, appropriate to their species and age and the length of the
journey,

8. water and feed must be offered to the animals at suitable intervals and must be appropriate in quality and quantity to the
species, size and age of the animals,

9. during the journey, the animals must be rested at appropriate intervals,

10. in the case of aquatic animals transported in special means of transport or containers, a sufficient quantity of water of
appropriate temperature and an adequate oxygen supply must be provided during transport, depending on the needs of the
particular animal species,

11. late-pregnant females during a period equal to 10% of the length of gestation before giving birth, and females during one
week after giving birth shall not be considered fit for transport, except when emergency veterinary treatment is needed,




                                                                                                                                    39
12. when the upright position of a container in which animals are transported is not readily visible from outside, the said position
must be indicated by a sign. Where it is not apparent from the nature of a container that live animals are carried in it, the
container must be clearly marked to indicate that it contains live animals as well as the species of those animals.



Obligations of transporters

Article 13

Before engaging in the activity of transporting animals, a transporter must:

1. obtain an authorisation to carry out the activity of transporting animals, issued by the competent authority,

2. designate a person (hereinafter referred to as "an attendant") who shall be responsible for the safety, feeding, watering and
resting of the animals during transport,

3. obtain a certificate of approval of means of transport by road, issued by the competent authority.

Qualifications of transporters and other personnel

Article 14

(1) Natural persons engaged in the transport of animals by road and animal attendants must be trained to perform their tasks in
accordance with paragraph 2, item 5 of Article 12, and must meet the requirements of Article 16 of this Act.

(2) Staff handling animals at assembly centres and resting points must be trained to take care of animals.

Article 15

(1) The competent authority shall keep a register of resting points for animals.

(2) The resting points for animals shall be entered in the register referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article on the basis of a
decision on compliance with the prescribed requirements, issued by the competent authority.

Article 16

The requirements for the transport of animals that must be met by transporters, the requirements that must be met by resting
points for animals and the training requirements for drivers and animal attendants and staff at assembly centres and resting points
for animals shall be prescribed by the Minister.



2. Protection at the time of slaughter or humane killing of animals kept for production purposes

Stunnig of animals

Article 17

(1) An animal may only be slaughtered if it is stunned before slaughter, except in the case of poultry and rabbits slaughtered for
private domestic consumption.

(2) By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, an animal may be slaughtered without prior stunning only in the cases
of emergency slaughter or slaughter according to religious rite.

(3) The stunning, slaughter or killing of animals for ritual purposes is prohibited.

The handling of animals in slaughterhouses

                                                                                                                                   40
Article 18

(1) The handling of animals in a slaughterhouse must be in accordance with the following:

1. after arrival, animals intended for slaughter must be unloaded from the means of transport, with the use of suitable equipment,
in such a way as to spare the animals any unnecessary pain, suffering and fear;

2. the moving of animals within the precincts of the slaughterhouse to their lairages must be done with care and without causing
pain, suffering and fear, with the use of suitable tools;

3. slaughterhouses must be equipped with suitable stalls and pens where animals are to be kept, protected from adverse weather
conditions, fed and watered;

4. the animals must be stunned by a prescribed method immediately before slaughter;

5. the stunning process must bring animals into a state of unconsciousness, in which state the animals must be slaughtered.

(2) The slaughter of animals must be carried out in a prescribed manner with the use of suitable equipment.

(3) It is prohibited to use stunning equipment or methods that cause unnecessary pain, suffering or fear.

Slaughtering and humane killing

Article 19

(1) The humane killing of animals must be carried out in such a way as to spare the animals any unnecessary pain, suffering,
injury or fear, in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(2) Animals may be moved, lairaged and cared for in the slaughterhouse, restrained, stunned, slaughtered or humanely killed only
by persons who are qualified to perform these tasks.

(3) The slaughter of animals for private domestic consumption must be carried out in such a way as to spare the animals any
unnecessary pain, suffering, injury or fear, in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(4) Where, in the case of emergency slaughter, stunning is not possible, slaughter shall be carried out in such a way as to spare
the animals any unnecessary pain, suffering, injury or fear.

(5) The slaughter of animals according to religious rite shall be carried out in a slaughterhouse specially approved by the
competent authority for that purpose.

(6) The Minister shall prescribe the requirements for the protection, at the time of slaughter and humane killing, of animals kept
for production purposes as well as requirements for training of staff that take care of animals in slaughterhouses and are involved
in the restraint, stunning and slaughter processes.

3. The protection of animals used in experiments and for the production of biological preparations

Article 20

(1) Experiments on animals may only be carried out by legal persons that are registered for carrying out this activity for the
following purposes:

1. the research of diseases and somatic disorders or the identification of effects of physiological and pathological conditions in
man and animals,

2. the testing and development of drugs and medicinal preparations intended for human and animal health protection,

3. the carrying out of studies for the purposes of the registration of drugs and medicinal preparations as prescribed by separate
regulations,

                                                                                                                                     41
4. the investigation of production and other traits and of the ways to improve them in animals farmed for commercial and other
purposes,

5. the investigation of causes and consequences of endangering the environment,

6. the testing of materials and products for their harmlessness to the health of humans or animals,

7. basic and applied scientific research,

8. educational purposes.

(2) The experiments on animals referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may only be allowed if the purpose of the research
cannot be achieved by other scientific methods and if the pain, suffering or injury that might be caused to the animals can be
ethically justified in terms of the expected results which are of significance for humans or animals or science.

(3) The Minister shall prescribe specific requirements as to the housing and keeping of experimental animals and their
identification, the types of experiments conducted on animals and the manner in which they are to be notified as well as the
keeping of records required by Article 30 of this Act.




Marking

Article 21

Animals used for experimental purposes and for the production of biological preparations must be marked.



The breeding of animals for use in experiments and for the production of biological preparations

Article 22

(1) Legal and natural persons breeding animals for use in experiments and for the production of biological preparations may not
commence the said activity without having obtained a decision from the competent authority confirming the fulfilment of
requirements.

(2) Animals used in experiments and for the production of biological preparations must originate from registered breeding
establishments, except in the case of wild animals taken from the wild.

(3) By way of derogation from paragraph 2 of this Article, animals not originating from registered establishments or animals
taken from the wild may be used for the production of biological preparations if a decision issued by the competent authority has
been obtained.

(4) The competent authority shall keep a register of legal and natural persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.

(5) The Minister shall prescribe the requirements for the breeding of animals referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.



Prohibition on the use of animals in experiments

Article 23

It is prohibited to use animals in experiments for the following purposes:



                                                                                                                                 42
1. the testing of weapons, ammunition or associated equipment, war equipment and general effects of radiation,

2. the research or development of tobacco products and chemical products used for the cleaning and disinfection of articles of
general use,

3. the research or development of ingredients, combinations of ingredients and finished cosmetic products,

4. the study of the effects of alcohol and narcotics, except when there is no alternative scientific method that does not entail the
use of animals.

Article 24

Experiments on animals may be performed by institutions of higher education and scientific-research institutions as well as by
qualified legal persons registered for performing experiments on animals, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 20 to 33
of this Act, under the following conditions:

1. the results of the experiment are not sufficiently known or are not available, or the repeated testing through a double or
repeated experiment or through other type of research is necessary when it is not possible to prove the results of the experiment
by other scientific methods.

2. they must employ qualified staff as specified by the provisions of Article 32 of this Act,

3. they must have the necessary premises, installations, equipment and other means to carry out experiments on animals,

4. they must have premises for the housing and accommodation of animals during the experiment and must be able to ensure that
the animals are kept in the prescribed manner, as well as cared for and attended to and provided with regular veterinary care.



Notification of experiments

Article 25

(1) Before the commencement of an experiment on animals, an application for authorisation to carry out the experiment on
animals must be submitted to the competent authority.

(2) The application referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be accompanied by an explanation as to ethical and scientific
justification to conduct the experiment.

(3) The authorisation to carry out the experiment on animals shall be issued by the competent authority taking into account the
opinion of the Ethics Committee referred to in Article 34 of this Act.

(4) The authorisation to carry out the experiment on animals shall specify the period of its validity and shall designate, on the
proposal of the applicant, the leader of the experiment and his/her deputy, the person in charge of the animal quarters and his/her
deputy as well as the responsible person referred to in Article 32, paragraph 3 of this Act.

Article 26

(1) If an experiment on animals is expected to last longer than the period approved, an application for an extension of the
approved period shall be submitted to the competent authority seven days before the expiry date of the said period.

(2) If the duration of several experiments of the same type is to be extended, it is sufficient to submit one application for the
extension of the duration of all the experiments.

(3) Should the details stated in the authorisation referred to in Article 25, paragraph 3 of this Act change in the course of the
experiment, the competent authority must be notified of the changes within three days.



                                                                                                                                    43
(4) The decision approving the extension of the duration of the experiment referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the
decision referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be issued by the competent authority.

(5) By way of derogation from paragraph 4 of this Article, a decision approving the use of a greater number of animals, the
change of animal species used or the change in the approved experimental procedures shall be issued by the competent authority
taking into account the opinion of the Ethics Committee referred to in Article 34 of this Act.

Article 27

(1) By way of derogation from the provision of Article 25, paragraph 4, and Article 26 of this Act, the competent authority shall,
by a decision authorising the carrying out of experiments for educational purposes, authorise the conduct of experiments for an
academic year, and the planned duration of the experiments may not be extended.

(2) By way of derogation from the provision of Article 25, paragraph 4, and Article 26 of this Act, the competent authority shall,
by a decision authorising the carrying out of experiments for the purposes of the projects approved by the state administration
body responsible for science, authorise the experiments to be conducted during the duration of the project concerned.

Article 28

It shall be the responsibility of the leader of the experiment to ensure that the experiment on animals is conducted in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.

Article 29

(1) Experiments on animals which cause them pain, suffering and injury or death may not be performed for educational purposes.

(2) By way of derogation from the provision of paragraph 1 of this Article, the competent authority may allow such experiments
if they are performed in institutions of higher education or scientific-research institutions and when they are necessary for the
education of veterinarians, medical doctors, experts in pharmacy and biochemistry, experts in animal husbandry, biologists and
doctors of dental medicine and if satisfactory results cannot be obtained by the use of other teaching aids (e.g. computer
simulations, films, illustrations, models, preparations etc.), provided that only one animal may be used for each group.

Article 30

Experiments conducted on animals and procedures applied in the production of biological preparations as well as the number of
animals used must be recorded and records submitted to the competent authority once a year.

Article 31

(1) The course of an experiment on animals and the procedures used in the production of biological preparations must be
recorded in logbooks.

(2) The logbooks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be signed by the persons referred to in Article 32, paragraphs 1 to
3 of this Act and by the leader of the experiment or, where relevant, by the person in charge of the production of biological
preparations.

(3) The logbooks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be retained for three years and must be made available to the
competent authority on request.



Examination required to work with animals used for experimental purposes

Article 32




                                                                                                                                 44
(1) Experiments on animals and procedures in the production of biological preparations may be carried out by veterinarians,
medical doctors, pharmaceutical chemists, medical biochemists, doctors of dental medicine, experts in animal husbandry or
biologists, provided they have passed the examination required to work with animals used for experimental purposes.

(2) Surgical operations on animals during an experiment or in the production of biological preparations may be carried out by
veterinarians, medical doctors, pharmaceutical chemists, medical biochemists, doctors of dental medicine, experts in animal
husbandry or biologists, provided they have passed the examination referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.

(3) When a surgical operation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is not carried out by a veterinarian, the person responsible
for the protection of animals must be a veterinarian.

(4) The programme of the examination referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Minister.

(5) The exam referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is also mandatory for:

– staff carrying out procedures on animals for the purpose of producing biological preparations,

– persons in charge of quarters for animals used in experiments and quarters for animals used for the production of biological
preparations, as well their deputies,

– staff taking care of animals in establishments for breeding animals for use in experiments and for the production of biological
preparations,

– staff taking care of animals being used in experiments and for the production of biological preparations.



Notification of the use of animals for the production of biological preparations

Article 33

(1) Before animals are used for the production of biological preparations as provided for in Article 22, paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
Act, an application for authorisation to use animals for these purposes must be submitted to the competent authority.

(2) The application referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be accompanied by an explanation as to ethical justification to
carry out the procedure concerned.

(3) The authorisation to use animals for the production of biological preparations shall be issued by the competent authority
taking into account the opinion of the Ethics Committee referred to in Article 34 of this Act, shall be valid for the current year
and may not be extended.

(4) The authorisation referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall specify the period of its validity and shall designate, on the
proposal of the applicant, the leader of the procedure and his/her deputy, the person in charge of the animal quarters and his/her
deputy as well as the responsible person referred to in Article 32, paragraph 3 of this Act.



Ethics Committee

Article 34

(1) The Minister shall establish an Ethics Committee.

(2) The membership of the Ethics Committee shall include experts in the fields of veterinary medicine, human medicine, biology,
pharmacy, biochemistry and agronomy, as well as representatives from the state administration body responsible for science and
education and representatives from animal protection associations.



                                                                                                                                     45
(3) The Ethics Committee shall:

– give opinions on ethical and animal protection issues in relation to the use of animals for experimental and educational
purposes,

– propose criteria and give opinions to the competent authority during the procedure for granting authorisation to carry out an
experiment,

– prepare an annual report on its work and forward to the Minister, by the end of March of the current year, the report for the
preceding year.

(4) The Ethics Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure.




                                                                                                                                  46
Annex J: Regulation on EIA

ANNEX 2

LIST OF PROJECTS FOR EVALUATION OF THE NEED FOR ASSESSMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, UNDER
THE AUTHORITY OF THE MINISTRY [2]



INTERVENTION

    1.   Agriculture, forestry and aquaculture

         1.1 Water management projects for agriculture, including irrigation and drainage where the surface of 2000 ha of
              irrigation and more, and in the catchment area of 300 ha and more

         1.2 Installations for the intensive rearing of pigs with more than:

               - 1 000 places for production pigs (over 30 kg)

                    - 500 places for sows

         1.3 Marine farms:

          - Fish farms in the protected coastal area (PCA) annual production of less than 100 t3

         1.4 Freshwater ponds:

          - For salmonids annual production 10 t or more

2. Energy (unless included in Annex I)

         2.1 Installations for the production of electricity, steam and hot water capacity greater than 10 MW el using:

          - solid and fossil fuels

          - Renewable energy sources (excluding water and wind)

         2.2 Hydroelectric powerplants exceeding 5 MWel

         2.3 Wind powerplants capacity of over 10 MW el

         2.4. Pipelines for the transport of oil, gas (high lines), steam and hot water 10 km or more

         2.5. Surface storage of natural gas and other fossil fuel capacity of 5,000 m³ and more

         2.6. Underground storage of combustible gases with a capacity of 5,000 m³ and more

         2.7. Industrial briquetting of coal and lignite

         2.8. Biofuel production capacity of 20,000 t / yr or more

         3rd Production and processing of metals (unless included in Annex I)

         3.1. Plants for metal processing capacity of 500 kg / h of raw materials:

         - Hot rolling mill (rolling mills)



                                                                                                                            47
- Smithies with one or more hammers

- Installations for application of protective fused metal coatings

3.2. Metal foundry

3.3. Installations for the melting of nonferrous metals and alloys excluding precious metals

3.4. Installations for surface treatment of metals and plastic materials using an electrolytic or chemical process

3.5. Installations for the production of motor vehicles (manufacture, assembly, production engine)

3.6. Shipyards

3.7. Installations for the construction and repair of aircraft

3.8. Installations for the production of railway equipment

3.9. Installations for metal using explosives

3.10. Plants for preparation, enrichment, roasting and sintering of metallic ores

4th Industrial processing of mineral raw materials (unless included in Annex I)

4.1. Plants for dry distillation of coal

4.2. Installations for the production of cement clinker cement and lime

4.3. Installations for the manufacture of glass and glass fiber, including production of glass processing scrap glass

4.4. Installations for melting mineral substances including the production of mineral fibers

4.5. Production of ceramic and clay products

5th Chemical industry (unless included in Annex I)

5.1. Processing (processing) of intermediate products and production of chemicals capacity of 10,000 t / yr or more

5.2. Production:

- Pesticides

- Pharmaceutical Products

- Paint and varnish

- Peroxide

5.3. Storage facilities for petroleum, petrochemical and chemical products with a capacity of 10,000 t or more

6th Food industry (unless included in Annex I)

6.1. Installations for the production and processing of oils and fats of vegetable or animal origin

6.2. Installations for the production, processing (canning) and packing of vegetable or animal origin capacity of 1 t /
day or more

6.3. Treatment and milk processing capacity of 1 t / day or more


                                                                                                                          48
6.4. Installations for the production of malt and yeast

6.5. Installations for the production of candy and syrup capacity of 5 tons / yr or more

6.6. Installations for the production of industrial starch

6.7. Installations for the production of fishmeal and fish oil

6.8. Plant for the production or refining of sugar

6.9. Installations for the production of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages capacity of 2,000,000 liters / year. more

6.10. Installations for the production of tobacco products

7th Textile, leather, wood and paper industry (unless included in Annex I)

7.1. Installations for the production of paper and cardboard

7.2. Plants for the treatment of textile fibers

7.3. Installations for the production and processing of cellulose

7.4. Treatment and processing of hides and skins

8th Rubber industry (unless included in Annex I)

8.1. Installations for the production and processing of rubber and rubber

9th Infrastructure projects (unless included in Annex I)

9.1. - Shopping malls and gross building area of 50,000 m2 and more

- Sports and leisure centers of 10 hectares or more

9.2. Industrial zones 5 ha and more

9.3. Railway lines (except for urban and suburban) longer than 10 km and railway terminals for intermodal loading and
unloading of cargo

9.4. Airfields

9.5. Dams and other installations designed to hold water or store it with a new or additional amount of water retained or
accumulated more than 1,000,000 m3

9.6. Intercity and international aqueducts

9.7. Groundwater abstraction or artificial groundwater recharge

9.8. Works for the transfer of water between the basin (river basins)

9.9. Sea ports with more than 100 berths

9.10. All projects including silting of sea coast, deepening and draining the seabed and sea constructions length of 50 m
and more

10th Other projects (unless included in Annex I)

10.1. Plants for waste water treatment capacity of 10,000 PE and more with associated drainage system


                                                                                                                       49
10.2. Bottling of drinking water

10.3. Plant and equipment for engines, turbines and reactors

10.4. Installations for the destruction of explosive substances

10.5. Installations for the production of mineral fibers

10.6. Facilities for treatment of waste:

- Thermal waste treatment capacity of 1 ton / day or more

- Biological treatment and other methods of waste treatment capacity of 100 t / day or more

10.7. Waste disposal facilities

10.8. Rehabilitation and reconstruction of landfills

10.9. Facilities for the storage of scrap iron, including refuse vehicles with capacity of 10,000 t / yr or more

10.10. Asphalt nominal capacity of 100 tons / hour or more, except for temporary installations

10.11. Batching plants nominal capacity of 30 m³ / hour or more, except for temporary installations

11th Tourism and leisure (unless included in Annex I)

11.1. Tourist zone of 15 ha or more outside the construction zone

12th Changes to the projects listed in Annex I and II that could have a significant negative impact on the environment,
with a significant negative impact on the environment at the developer's request to the Ministry, and in the assessment
of the need for environmental impact assessment.

13th Reconstruction of the existing plant and equipment for which they are establishing integrated environmental
protection requirements that could have a significant negative impact on the environment, with a significant negative
impact on the environment at the request of the developer, by the Ministry and in the assessment of the need for
environmental impact assessment.




ANNEX III



LIST OF PROJECTS TO EVALUATION OF THE NEED FOR IMPACT ASSESSMENT ON ENVIRONMENT
AND FOR WHICH IS COMPETENT ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY IN THE COUNTY OR CITY OF
ZAGREB

INTERVENTION

First Agriculture, forestry and aquaculture (unless included in Annex I and II.)

1.1. Restoring rural area of 10 ha and more

1.2. The use of uncultivated land or semi-natural areas for intensive agricultural area of 10 ha and more

1.3. Initial afforestation purposes of conversion of land area of 50 ha and more


                                                                                                                     50
         1.4. Clearing of forests for conversion of the land area of 10 ha and more

         1.5. Installations for the intensive rearing of poultry capacity of 30 000 units or more per production cycle

         1.6. Installations for the intensive rearing of cattle and other animals of more than 500 heads (which does not include
         facilities for pigs and poultry)

         1.7. Freshwater ponds:

         - For salmonids annual production exceeding 5 t

         - For cyprinids surface area exceeding 50 ha

         Second Infrastructure projects (unless included in Annex I and II.)

         2.1. The parking areas as independent projects 2 acres and larger

         2.2. Canals, dykes and other structures for protection from flooding and coastal erosion

         2.3. Tramways, elevated and underground railways, suspended lines, used for the transport of passengers:

         - Urban - 10 km and more

         - Suburban - length of 15 km and more

         3rd Other projects (unless included in Annex I and II.)

         3.1. Racetrack for motor vehicles and test tracks for motorized vehicles surface of 1 ha or more

         4th Tourism and leisure (unless included in Annex I and II.)

         4.1. Ski runs, lifts and elevators and similar structures with accompanying buildings area of 1 ha or more

         4.2. Amusement Parks area of 5 ha and more

         5th Changes to the projects listed in this Annex, which could have a significant negative impact on the environment,
         with a significant negative impact on the environment by request of the developer, by the competent administrative
         body in the county or in the City of Zagreb, and in the assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment.




Annex K



PUBLIC CONSULTATION MINUTES

Ministry of Science, Education and Sports

Donje Svetice 38, Zagreb

August 3, 2012




                                                                                                                                51
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for Second Science and Technology Project (STP II), as well as the invitation to a
public consultation have been published on July 20, 2012 on the official web pages of the Ministry of Science, Education and
Sports (MSES); Business – Innovation Agency of Croatia (BICRO) and Unity through Knowledge Fund (UKF). In addition to
public announcement, the invitation was sent directly to e-mail addresses of over thirty relevant people from the Croatian
scientific, business and public sector.

All stakeholders had also been invited to send their written comments until August 2, 2012 to e- mail address of Project
Implementation Unit – Project Manager (Renato.vrebac@mzos.hr).

By August 2, 2012 PIU received no written comments to published EMP.

Public consultation was held on August 3, 2012 from 9.30 – 10.00 in the big meeting room of Ministry of Science, Education and
Sports, Donje Svetice 38, Zagreb. 6 people attended the meeting, representatives of World Bank, MSES, BICRO and UKF (the
list of participants is given in appendix to the minutes).

The introductory word was given by Renato Vrebac, Project Manager and Natasa Vetma, Senior Operations Officer for
Environment. Ms Vetma explained changes to the EMF document, based on comments provided by the World Bank experts. All
participants agreed with proposed changes.

Ms Ivana Culjak from BICRO suggested including Annexes 2 and 3 of the Regulation on Assessment of Environmental Impact
into EMF document. All participants agreed.

Finally, it has been decided to publish revised EMF on the official web pages of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports
(MSES); Business – Innovation Agency of Croatia (BICRO) and Unity through Knowledge Fund (UKF) for additional public
commenting.




 List of Participants
        PC.pdf




                                                                                                                                 52
