                                                                                                           99830




Supporting Innovation and Boosting Competitiveness in Croatia
Croatia is the birthplace of scientists like Nikola Tesla, whose
discoveries made it possible for mankind to use electricity in
everyday life. And of Rudjer Boskovic, whose 18th Century          Multimedia
studies inspired the field of electromagnetism and whose
work improved the performance of the Royal Society's
telescopes and strengthened the dome of St. Peter's Basilica
in Rome.

Croatian scientists are still making important contributions,
although most have yet to boost the country's economic
development.                                                       Croatia: Supporting Innovation and
                                                                   Boosting Competitiveness (Video)
An IT company in Zagreb, Pet minuta (Five Minutes) , is
making a difference. The software company develops
innovative applications and has grown considerably since its
establishment in 2006. Founders and IT specialists Viktor
Marohnic and Sasa Saunic have steadily hired more staff and
increased profits to over $1 million despite the economic
slowdown.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
                           The company's major product is a
                           software platform for mobile phones     Related Links
                           named ShoutEm. ShoutEm , allows
                           social networks to communicate over     Five Minutes
                           mobile phones, through text
                                                                   ShoutEm
                           messages and photos, and to share
                           links and data files. It requires       Banko
                           minimal hardware expense and IT         Business Innovation Center of Croatia
Viktor Marohnic, co-
founder of ShoutEM,
                           knowledge and is therefore both easy
                                                                   Rudjer Boskovic Institute
Networking on the Go via   to use and affordable.
Mobile Phones                                                      Science and Technology Project
                        The product showed such                    Ministry of Science, Education and
commercial potential after its test phase that Slovenian           Sports
venture capital fund, RSG Capital, invested $1.2 million in
                                                                   The World Bank in Croatia
August 2010 to develop ShoutEm into a global product. Five
Minutes co-founder Viktor Marohnic now runs ShoutEm UK in
London.

Sasa Sarunic, Five Minutes' other founder remarked: "we haven't felt the global crisis, and this can be
seen from the fact that our number of employees rose last year from about 10 to 25, and we have
doubled the profit."

Why did Sarunic and Marohnic succeed in an economic crisis? Because their innovative ideas were
recognized by the government's Business Innovation Center of Croatia (BICRO) which provided them
with development support through a World Bank-funded project.
The World Bank Science and Technology Project was conceived as the backbone of Croatian
government policy supporting science and technology and increasing support for a variety of
innovations. One objective was to have more research performed in collaboration with businesses. The
other was to increase the amount of research and development performed by small and medium-sized
enterprises—about 80 of which got access to $46 million. After the economic crisis hit in late 2008, cash
and investments were hard to come by. These funds countered that.

                         Innovation comes in many forms. Twin brothers, Aljosa and Nebojsa Boskovic
                         run BANKO, a small family company that sells pneumatic grinders used in
                         shipyards and other industries that use steel. Aljosa is technically inclined,
                         Nebojsa is a skilled businessman. Together, the brothers designed and built a
                         grinder that works faster and lasts longer than its competitors' while being very
                         energy efficient. The BANKO grinder was evaluated for three months at a Split
                         ship yard, with impressive results.

Aljosa and Nebojsa      "Our grinders are unique on the market; the grinding is 30% faster , reducing
Boskovic, founders of
BANKO                   human hours needed to, for example, construct a ship, with savings in
                        construction costs of up to half a million Euro per ship. We are also extremely
happy that this was a product of a successful cooperation between the Faculty of Mechanical
Engineering and Naval Architecture of the University of Zagreb and our company showing that science
and business go hand in hand," said Nebojsa Boskovic.

With a solid business plan in hand, the brothers obtained $1.9 million of seed capital to commercialize
their project. In June 2010, they offered their product on the market and have since signed contracts
with buyers from the Netherlands, Germany, Russia, and Ukraine.

BANKO obtained funding through a BICRO-managed program supported by the World Bank for two
reasons. Its product had potential, and the company planned to collaborate with a public research
organization. This practice was not very common in Croatia, as public research organizations had little
contact with private companies. But, thanks to the Science and Technology Project, more and more
small and medium enterprises are collaborating with public research organizations on R&D.

ShoutEm and BANKO's successes are indicative of Croatia's innovation potential and of the impact of
the Science and Technology Project. So is the change in mindset among scientists, who are now more
open to commercial applications of research results, further unleashing the country's innovative potential.

Rudjer Boskovic Institute, Croatia's most prestigious scientific institute, is building a solid portfolio of
patents and five spinoff companies have been created in the last three years. Brodarski Institute, which
does research on maritime technologies, signed 33 new contracts worth $9.6 million with private
companies. That is a vast increase over 2006, when two contracts worth $400,000 were signed. Private
companies now form 40 percent of their revenue, up from 22 percent in 2006.

Through the project, BICRO has become the driving force behind the national innovation system. It has
given dozens of businesses millions in financing which might otherwise have been unavailable because
of the economic crisis. And it has helped to create 350 jobs and assist 340 companies with business-
related processes through its technology centers.

"Croatia's experience shows that innovation policies focused on supporting business R&D and enabling
the commercialization of public research can achieve tangible results in a relatively short period of time.
This is of particular importance in times of economic crisis when budgets are constrained and when
economies need to unleash innovation and productivity as new drivers of economic growth,' says Paulo
Correa, World Bank task manager for the Science and Technology Project.
