C9 - q
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO- 528a
I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
inis report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor mOy it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENI'
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
nETjCATTC)N PRC)JEGT
KENYA
July 5, 1966
Projects Department



TrYT T" 'kTT  at  T¶',%TtI Tr A I -  v tT
r-' %A , INI LWLIVft.ULj1.N 1
U. S. $1          = 7. 2 East African Shillings
EAb 1             = U.1S. $2. 80
EAE:, 1, 000, 000  = UJ.S. $2, 800, 000



KENYA
EDUCATION PROJECT
TAELE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMARY                                                                i - i
I. INTRODUCTION
Request to IDA                                                   1
II. BACKGROUND
leeogranhv                                                      1
Kenya' s People                                                 2
III. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
Background                                                       2
General Secondary Education                                     3
O+he  SeconAa kt 'duca+ior.                                      5
Boarding
Highe6r Educa+io  inldn     9cnv        chool
Teacher Training                                            6
O0 rganI z atiAon anad SLL.  Vi.L                                7
T~T  rrTrr'  V   Tf',TInT   A TT'N  T ArTWf1n  rT1nnTh   ^LI ~t  /~7V7
ILV.  Ihf E£AAJL ± J:lLJ .iDJll RULDAD VL FOU OF IA
Tn-i d us t r                                                   7
Agriculture                                                      7
Econom.ic,4 n  nr/r1g 8rA
Employment                                                      8
A 4'..4  4  ,  _ 4 o.                                           0
£OIII ~   .  ,U L
Forms V and VI                                                  1
lee, llcaW l SChoUols
Teacherts Training Colleges                                    12
Teacser Requirements and S-upply                                -L
Staff Housing                                                  13
Construction Costs, Basis of Estimating                        13
Contingencies                                                  13
This report is based on the findings of a mission in July and August 1965
to Kenya composed of iiessrs. George Tobias, Mats Hultin, Peter Oltmanns and
J.C. Jones (Consultant).



V. THE PROJECT (Continued)                                        Page No.
Lancl                                                        13
Quality of Design                                            14
Maintenance                                                 1L
Basis of Corntracting                                        14
Basis of Procurement of Supplies and Equipment               15
Fore.ign Exchange                                            16
Disbursement                                                 16
Pro;ject Office                                              16
VI. FINANCING EDUCATION
196-1'965                                                    17
196',-1970                                                   17
VTT.   nNCTTJSTONS                                                    18
Annex 1  - Graph - Primary and Secondary School Enrollment
Annex 2  - Graph - Educational Pyramid
Annex 3  - Graph - Dropout Curves
Annex 4 - Chart - Structure of Education
Anrex 5  - Chart - Educational Administration
Ann3x 6 - Table - Proposed Co:nstruction and Bquipment Costs
Annax 7 - Table - Present and Proposed Enrollment and Output in
Maintained and Assisted General Secondary Schools.
Forms I - IV.
Annex 8  - Table - Proposed Construction and Equipment Program,
Forms I - IV
Annex 9  - Table - Present and Proposed Enrollment and Output
Forms V - VI
Annex 10 - Table - Proposed Construction and Equipment Program,
Forms V and. VT
Annex 11 - Table - Secondiary Technical Schools Present and Proposed
Enrollments and Outputs
Annex 12 - Table - Proposed Construction and Equipment Costs of
Technical Schoonls
Annex 13 - Table - Present and.Proposed Enrollments and Outputs in
Prrnimary Teanr)iar T-rainircrng Colleges
Annex 14 - Table - Proposed Construction and Equipment -
Annex 15 - Chart - Teacher Demand and Supply in Secondary General
Annex 16 - Table - Central Government Capital Expenditure on
Annex 17 - Table - Central Government Recurrent Costs in Education
1961/M6 - -10AQ/7n
Annex 18 - Chart - Construction Progress Chart
Ar3ex 10 - Tabl  -              -tadr  of Ac ."odation Ti o
MAP of Kenva with Schools in P:roject



KENYA
EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMVRY
i.       'In February 1965, the Government of Kenya discussed with the
Internationaal DSveLopment Association the possibility of a credit for ex-
pansion of the secondary school system. In July and August 1965 an IDA
appraisal mission was in Kenya to review the project.
ii.       Kenya is faced with an urgent need for more high level manpower
to support economic and social growth, and to replace expatriates as
educated and trained KCenyans become available.  In this country of <2 million
persons the recognized, state-supported general secondary school system now
enrolls onLy 26,000 students and has room for only 4,400 of them to finish
the four-year course. Form V and VI education, which is required of most
University entrants, is now available to only 1,660 students or less than
one-half ofE those wiho finish four years of secondary education.  Secondary
level educaition in industrial technology is available to only a handful of
Kenyans, too few to meet the needs of the growing economy.   Primary school
teachers at present are trained in 34 small, poorly equipped institutions
with places for 4,1300 students.
iii.      The proposed proiect will cost US$9.7 million equivalent during
a construction period 1966-1969. It provides for building 16 new, and
for expanding 19 p:resent Forms I-IV secondarv schools to accommodate 11,000
additional students and to increase the annual output by more than 2,700
at a cost of $3.8 million. Form V and VT education will he increased bv
over 800 places andi annual output will be raised by over 400 by spending
$0.  million to imporove ten sehools.  Techniea1 seonr1n-mr PA_io on wil:L
be improved by constructing two and reconstructing seven schools by an
expenditurP of $0.Q mnilliom tn tincreas the num.ber of plhac  yr 1,250l and
the annual output by 270. Primary teachers' training colleges will be con-
cer.trated in 1_8 cof the 34, preser.t sites, nadding 95 OK() a  andr in-ncrainc
the annual output capacity by 485 at a cost of $1.2 million. Staff housing
amoulnts to $2.0 million and contingencies to 1.3 minllion.  Thus hv an,
expencliture of approximately $9.7 million, 13,900 additional places for
post- riarystu ents would be added nd the nvi.in        - i.rase in output wond
be more than 3,900.
iv.       The secondary school curriculum will be broadened by the provision
ofL agricu-'tura.l, indusuriail, co.m.mercial and ho.m.eZ Mcn.i  ntut  Ona
optional subjects.  Terminal educaticn will thus be provided for secondary
sudents appropiate to Kernya's labor   arket conditions.
v.        Thse ianpower requiromiente of the aondstu   developu nt plan Justifies
this increaseb in educational investment and student OUtpUte



-ii. L-
Vi.       Kenya will have to continue to rely upon expatriate teachers for
some years to come but United Kingdom and U.S. support is available to
supply the numbers needed and the supply of African teachers is increasing.
vii.      Kenya is budgeting sufficient funds for recurrent costs of this
project within the economic developmenlt plan forecasts.
viii.     Iesign and construction of the buildings and procurement of the
equipment can be carried out with sat-isfactory procedures and at reasonable
costs.  Foreign exchange requireme:nts are approximately 81.9 million and
local currency costs about $7.8 million. Most of the schools to be built
will have to provide boarding facilitiLes due to the scattered population.
Similarly, housing for teachers will be provided because the overwhelming
majoritv of the teachers including exnpatriates are from areas sther than
those in which they are to teach, and houses are not available.
ix.       'he expansion of the secondary school system is necessary to the
fii filmentf of Kenn'r eon       developm..en.t plan.  S ,lrr  to the recom.lenda-
tions and c:onditions set forth in paragraphs 104 and 105, the project is
suitable for an IDA. cre-jt in the a-o1 t of US$7 million or 73 percen.t of
the total cost of the project.



IUNYA
EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTROLUCTION
1.        In   h.nwar  1965, +h-v I.J:rn4..n..n..%4 .4 sn6,l fWlo.,nnl nr,n,tn Associatiov.4.n
received a request from the Kenya Gcvernment for an educational credit
to~~VA asis  th  Jo.tut0.  %an  eu4p,,,nt of secon--r-y sch-ools and t1eache,r
training colleges in Kenya.
2.        The Kenya Economic Development Plan for 1964-70 paid considerable
attention to manpower development problems and especially stressed thle ateed
for expanding general and technical secondary schools and primary teachesr
v    ,    l I  UT  3  _
training institutions0
3.        The Kenya Education Commission in 1964 expressed the opinion that
a shortage of professional, administrative and skilled workers threatened
to delay Kenya's economic development.  The Commission gave first priority
to expanding secondary schools.
4.        The proposal to IDA reflects the recommendations of the Education
Commission and should meet the dermand expressed in the Economic Development
Plan.
5.        An IDA appraisal mission, comprising IMessrs. George Tobias, Mats
Hultin, Peter Oltmanns and J.C. Jones (consultant) visited Kenya during
July and August, 1965, and this report is based upon their findings and the
data provided in the Economic Development Plan and the Education Commission
Report.
II. BACKGROUID
GeoRraphy
6.        Kenya's 225,000 square miles make it about the same size as
France. Straddling the Equator, lCeixya is broken into east and west halves
by the Rift Valley. Rising from a ccast line along the Indian Ocean,
Kenya has a long range of uplands crossing two-thirds of the country from
west to east, abundantly watered and giving the highest agricultural out-
put with tne ereatest potential for erowth amonz Kenva's areas.
7-        For tl,p rest of the con-trv- a narrow fertile belt of tropical
vegetation along the coast offers pot,ential for agricultural development.
Almrot. the entir  nnrm.hPrn hlf of the roniintry is in arid wasteland. The
most fertile area, the highlands, has been taken up by Europeans for agri-
clstural developmnnet sin.ce the beginning of the +.hta r ry. Wh.ile some changes



in ownership now characterize agricultural development in the rich lands,
heavv inupetm.ent mnay haue to be mnne ton hrina in Aianifinant additional
agricultural production.
Kenya's People
8.        The 9.5 million people of Kenya are 97 percent of African origin,
A4 .- A,A i.to~- four... r~4., .or an   as r.r   a.s lOO , r.ir^   +s,,,.al n.d trib21 groups.
While perhaps two-thirds of Kenya's people are Bantu in origin, they in
.,Ui4 -~~~~~~a 4r_s ,4._ A A; 1alec) .St_-i-"       ce% +.hn+.
tu.-Lt ar c;;ue Sudvided into -LW11Z erous c-LuAlua"  LL ".L J_  L%,  s v6r
communication is somewhat limited.
9.        Two and one-half percent of the population is of Asian origin,
controlling trade and commerce, anid has served as the country:s middle class
in both public and private employnent. The remaining one-half of one percent
is European.
10.       The 97 percent of the population which is African remains pre-
dominantly rural. The African's economic role has been almost entirely in
subsistence agriculture on small hoiclings, contributing little to tne market
economy. Even villages remain uncommon in rural Kenya, with a pattern of
settlement representing only a few homesteads clustered together. Probably
fewer than ten towns in Kenya have more than 10,000 inhabitants and only
one, Naircbi, more than 200,000. While in some districts of best farming
poterftial there are as many as 1,000 persons to the square mile, less than
5 percent of Kenya's population lives in the vast expanses of the northern
province occupying 40 percent of the country.
11.       The population is growing at an estimated 3 percent per annum..
This birth rate indicates that Kenya may- have 11 million people by 197C'.
12.       Substantial changes in the migration pattern have occurred in the
last five years with a net loss of Europeans every year since 1960 due to
emigration, and a loss in the Asian population in 1964. The movement suggests
an opening: up of higher level occupations to Africans.
III. THE EDUCILTION SYSTEM
Backgrouncd
13.       In the past, Kenya's education consisted of separate systems for
Europeans, Asians and Africans, each system separately financed and staffed,
with separate objectives and standards for the students.
14.       Until 1560, there had been almost no communication between th.e
three. European education was on a different material standard and served
to produce graduates for governmentaL, cornmmercial or financial activities
where univrersitv orenaration in most cases was desirable. Asians anticinating
a career in trade and commerce were educated with emphasis in that direction,
but Asian edueatiAon was fuirther com'plicated hecaiise of l anguage and religpious
separatisrn.



-3.-
15.       African education was provided almost entirely by the Christian
missions with usualy a more restricted target than the European and Asian
education.. Since Independence the emphasis of the Government has been to
integrate the three school systems, to admit more Africans and to expose
more African child3ren to a type of instruction that would fit them for
higher level positions.
Primary Education
16.       Kenya is now reducing primary education - a responsibility of the
local authorities - from eight years to seven, terminating in a common
examination for all primary schools as a prerequisite to secondary school
entrance. The coumtry is also planning to expand primary enrollment by
four percent per annum which is one-third faster than the rate of population
growth.  ]?rimary school children pay fees of 60-65 shillings per year.When fees
were raised in 1963, a drop in new enrollments followed.   It is necessary,
however, that fees continue to be charged because it is not yet possible
to raise sufficient revenue from the cormmunities.
17.       Only 65 percent of primary school children are taught by qualified
teachers, which reduces the efficiency of primary education considerabl.y.
More than 80 percent of Kenyats children learn a tribal dialect as their
first language.  On entrance to primary school this 80 percent is taught
Swahili.  English is offered in Standard 4 as the child's third language.
The low percentage of qualified primary teachers adversely influences T)ro-
gress in E'nglish and thereby lowers the standard in the secondary schools
whpre Png'lish is the teaching mediiirm-
18.       Tn 1Q65  when 1 700-00C) W.nrnran e-hileirr TTere eliaihbl  for nr-ir
education, (aged 6 to 12) a little more than 1,C00,000 were in school (61%).
Fewer' th: t.wo pe:rcent of the eli >_b1e chilrh'en were evv?'olled in the No'h
east while in Nai:robi practically every child was in school.  Moreover, as
every Diropean lh:4ld was in shool nd       Of) 9 ercer.t of +he Ain-s  a
smaller percentage of the Africans was ienrolled than would be implied by
t+f-l to-tall figures.  TheA -apout rate 4is high = -ut of' '140,000 c1-ildren -ho
entered Standard 1L in 1956 40,000 remained in Standard 7 by 1962 (Annexes
1,~~   ~1U 2I,Uu 1.d 3)
19.       IrseI aJ.lJAn ,trs       UUiduatlUll o Id greab. AUl unUoUIntedU LiuMriUUr
of self-help primary schools are springing up all over the country.   These
so-called ::Harambee" schools, buiLt by iocal iabor with iocal materiala
have grown to the point where only a few can be staffed with teachers of
adequate quality and in sufficient numbers.
General Secondary Education
20.       Students wno complete primary education may proceed to primary
teacher training, four or six years of general secondary education, or
three or four years of technical education.  There are also opportunities



-4-
for students to take up teacher training or vocational education after t.wo
years of general secondary education (Annex 4).
21.       Maintained and assistedl/secondary schools have grown in number
from 148 in 1963 to 185 in 1965. Unaided schools have grown from 43 in
1963 to 1140 in 1965, with the result that in 1965 schooling of some kind or
other is offered at the secondary leval in buildings ranging from adequate
to primitiv7e in a total of 325 locations. Among the maintained and assisted
schools, about one-tenth were form.er 'European schools, one-fourth Asian
and Arab schools, and two-thirds former African schools.
22.       A number of "Harambee"l schools have also been constructed at the
secondary Level. Once the schools are built, the Central Government is
asked to supply teachers, books. and teaching materials, and finds it
difficult for political reasons to refuse to do so. Hence the total number
of secondary schools has been rising by substantial numbers each year while
the quality has been falling.
23.       In terms of size, quality and investment per child, the former
African schools are the poorest    Tt is to build up those schools into sizes
that afford educational quality and variety that the country now seeks to
expnam1 its seron-darv school systemn.
24       (Of the school age group of 13 to 1R9 eStAmated at 1.2 milliOn
persons, about 31½ percent are enrolled in secondary schools, representing
about 15 e,rcent of th-e number s    vcc -i i II ir ^r,. m rin+e +he, pnri. Jr ^nirc: 
Enrollnents in prirnary school are rising both because of population increases,
and bjecauser of16 locacJL. efforts t+o bu,ild prmyschools - .us LL + MAQ+h
number of secondary school places available now, the intake of primary school
zP *E'  1> J  1ni  4-4--   -1-           . A -  4-- IA     U-  '  10   b n I
254 ~  ~~ 'be enr  aL secondai  educ;LionQJ: Jour.--yULtar course~ _le;ads to the
Cambridge Overseas School Certificate. In selected schools, this is followed
by a two-year course leading to the Cambridge Overseas Higher Certilieatue.
The courses have many advantages but are on the whole not adjusted to Kenyats
-   X'J-1   m        e  *        *rT?  *r.2  TT* - …
neeus.  Init ±±i±r± UAW1.dlulab5 .± u{isi iLV aiu V.L Uieu rega±rueu as o l r-
tant that the performance of students during term is often ignored. Students
failing examinations due to sicKness, nervousness or other reasons may not
receive a leaving certificate even if their earlier achievements have been
good. This overvaluation of examinations has led to an emphasis on those
parts of the curricula which can be controlled by tests while other parts
not as easily controlled are set aside. In this way examinations tend to
1/ Maintained schools are those which are completely
.L .anced wiitb. GoJvernrizLnt- O.WLuL.LS
Assisted schoo:Ls are those which receive the major part of
their financing from Government and the remainder from
voluntary agencies. Unaided schools receive no Government
financial assistance.



govern the curriculum in an unfavorable way. There is an almost complete
absence from the curriculum of music and fine arts,  Very few schools have
offered practical courses but changes are now in progress and it has bc-en
decided that all general secondary schools will offer one or more courses
such as agriculture, commerce, industrial arts and hom_ cconomics in
addition to the academic ones.  Textbooks suited to Kenya's background are
in short supply duLe to a general sho)rtage of authors acquainted with Kenya
and the country's need.
26.       The absence of practical education has not been attributable to
resistance on the part of the pupils to taking practical subJects. A Year
ago US AID provided six secondary scihools with facilities for agricultural
studies as nart oi' the Cambride Certificate course..  Cambridge recomnition
of the courses was perhaps the deciding factor but the courses were fi].led
bv interested stn(1Pnts.C oursri in   mrnm rt-e home econnmins and industrial
arts will probablr meet with the same success if offered as a part of a
recogni z   a mint! mi -n.
Othier SeoCnrdar- E';'ncnAnn
27.       Kena's trade and technical schools recruit students who have
completed primary education. These schools offer training in traditional
crats,patic'ary  n «e bi';ng,ds.     'rrhe co--sizgne,'ar
unrelated to Kenya's industrial needs such as refining of agricultural
pAUc t, woou pro3cessLIg ,.id ma1±nl7d repair (paras 41, ,  d  sor,2
courses need modernization.
28.       The Kenya Polytechnic, the K-ombasa Technical Institute, Egerton
Col ege in agriculture and Strathmore College in commurce o±leir c.oursesS
which are up-to-date and are popular with employees and students.
29.       Another fomr of secondary education already mentioned is that
given to prepare primary school teachers.
BoardinR
30.       The 1964 Education Commission concluded that with the population
scattered it is difficult for African children to attend a secondary day
school. Daily bus transportation is not feasible for most of the rural
children.  The Education Commission recommended that boarding schools be
provided now, and. that even if they can later be converted to day schools
as the population, grows and roads improve, there will continue to be a. need
to feed the children at least one meal per day in the secondary schools to
be built.,
31.      M4any of' the rural secondary schools are one-stream instituti.ons
with perhaps 100 students, too few .Ln number to provide the broad curricula
and variety of classes that a modern secondary education requires. Student



-6-
bodies large enough to justify full curricula can be assembled in a given
school only if it has boarding facilities.
32.       Boarding schools are also a means of mixing pupils from variouls
groups in order to diminish tribal tensions.
33.       The boar(ling school system requires a certain amount of staff
housing for supervisors of the boarders. In addition, there is a general
shortage of' houses suitable for teachers in many areas of Kenya.
34.       There are some areas in Kenya where it should be possible to
introduce a day school system with bus transportation. A cost comparison
of boarding, versus day school with buses shows that, for recurrent costs per
student over a fifty-year period, day schools are about 7 percent cheaper.
The initiaL capitaL but not necessarily the total cost of buses would be
less than the cost of hostels. Hcowiever, the replacement of buses at in1;er-
vals might have disadvantages in requiring new loans or absorbing some of
the country's foreimn exchange.. Furt'her. the intrmdnictinn of bus services
would also involve unknown factors of reliability and safety. Taking a7l
factonrs in:tr c- ir    n at this s+tag nf KVen-rn.a  deeTlo1rpnrnent+. thQre  esnp
not apnear to be a clear advantage in bus service over boarding in areas
where such servTice from a cotrnrmlYicati.on point of V w -T %^ il h-ise be
possible.
Higher Education including Secondary School Teacher Training
35.       The highest level of education in East Africa is that provided
by Uthe U         U1vJSly 0E  Africa, r,Uo[,ld-L-Ly a sngle J.11ZUbior -Ar.L1 i± t]uJe
campuses at Kampala in Uganda, Nairobi in Kenya and Dar es Salaam, Tanzcmia,
each with specialized faculties (Annex 4).
36.       ;tudents successfully completing four years of secondary education
may enter into architecture, art, domestic science, surveying or adminiistra-
tion courses., After six years of secondary education the University offers
engineering science, arts or vetexinary courses.
37.       Outside the University higher education is offered at the Kenra
Poytechnic, the Medical Training Center and the College of Agriculture.
38.       The trainiing of secondary school teachers in East Africa has imtil
recently been done in the Kampala section of the University. To meet the
demand created by the proposed secondary school expansion several training
schemes have now been launched within K'enya.  There are three-year courses
for school certificate holders and one-year courses for higher school
certificate holders in operation at Kenyatta College in Nairobi (Annex ta).
With Swedish aid a Science Teacher Institute has started. The total yearly
output of teachers from these two institutions will be about 200. In 19?66



-7-
trhree-year B.A. andc BISc. courses wiLL be offered aLt UnrslVuruity Collegeu
Nairobi, wLth an expected enrollment of 375. A post-graduate course with
a yearly intake oI- 25-50 ior suuuents recently reiurned from aDroad wil.l
also be offered by the new Department of Education at the Nairobi section
of the University.
Organization and Supervision
39.      TChe administration of Kenya;s education is in the process of
change. The intention is that local authorities and school boards of
governors shall progressively take over the responsibility for teachers'
salaries, teacher appointments, etc.  The Central Government, however, will
still cont.inue to exercise the real auathority. The Government's financial
support is followed by firm recommendations and inspections. As most
teachers are expatriates recruited. from abroad, teacher appointment is a
task for the Ministry.  The Ministry recommends timetables, equipment and
textbooks. School construction has, however, been decentralized. The
organization of tho Ministry is shown by Chart Annex 5, which shows that.
there are at presernt no units for planning, statistics or school construction.
4o.       Many key positions in the Ministry are filled by expatriates, the
length of whose stay in Kenya is unce:rtain.  It is important that African
counterparts for these expatriates should be found as soon as possible.
Particularly important is the formation of a planning and statistics uni.t0
IV., THE ECONOMIY AMD 'LABOR FORCE OF KENYA
Industry
41.       Industry has been growing fairly rapidly and can be expected to
COnLU..LLAUU  IU'J r,.LVVJ* X   1v;LU  L  OLVU'G  .LUJ  .1ALLUX1WL  J.1Ix IIFVL U  OUAjsV.LU . W -_VL  11a1NF
of the industries are based on processing agricultural raw materials. The
wodw 2 kinl    ir,dsry -is allso of some -impor,ance as are establishments fo.11
woo`orni ngls.LJ  indust LJy.  .L L  iL  L4 UL  LL      U     L.. L±IiLIIAUIIC  .IJL
repairing machinery, electric motors, and rolling stock,  An oil refiner.y
has recent:ly been establiMshe ab        W11o11a which [nray ±ormn be Ubasb fur petro-
chemical industries. However, industry comprises only a small part of the
iOuda. econoiny ana '   cu w .ry W.LJ.4. fur suorie ULLILU IIUALm   uvtUVU±±J11C4it'..y a1-L
cultural.
Agriculturt
42.       Eighty-five (85) percent of Kenya's African population and 35 per-
oent of itlS Er-operan popln2tion. are engaged on the lnand.  Tn traditiona:l
African society, tiny plots of land were farmed, using simple techniques.
Eu-opean and Asian enterprises provided the anrer           e  fovr' internal
consumption and developed the export trade. The Kenya economy is only
gra.dua" .l1y -sbaisting Crom.. its dU al charactero  Peasar.ts qmn.p,4 4in rur,vlal sb-
sistence agriculture have been able to raise output only a little.  The
average pe:r-capita income in Kenya is still lSs than $84 per year wish a+
least 40 percent of the total in the form of subsistence income.



Economic Planning
43.       Kenya leadership has long been aware of the need for economic
planning. Upon Independence, a development plan for the years 1964-70 was
set in motion with the assistance of foreign experts which remains the target
plan for economic, manpower and educational development. A Directorate of
Planning in the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development has as one of
its centrELI functions the development of manpower plans. These plans include
the settine of eoals and oblectives for the educational svstem.
±dL.      KenyaIs Economic Devalopment Plan has as a maior obiective the
fulfillment of employment and manpower goals. The plan builds its 1970
target for economi=c development on tlhe assumntion that the familv incore
will increase from ii70 in 1964 to i6200 in 1970. By 1970 Kenya's 11 million
people will comprise 1, 800,000 famililes or h00,OO0 more than at the beginning
of the plan. To provide for the add'Ltional families, the G.D.P. must in-
creasm-by5 per-ert. abov,e tha 1096 :!vlo   wt--w-hrcsoMtei.ces
going to the additional number of families and one-third to improved living
standards,, ProvicVing for t+1M addi4tjor.al fnmni`14ie  ni "a ,r 1070 requres a
growth rate of 3.]. percent.
EMployment
45.       Between 1960 and 1963, there was a serious decline in the paid
emuploy-welerU1; leVeJ. JLI1 ,Ln Rend, W±IO about 90,uuv fUewer woIrker  U1P±lj.Vy-eu at the
end of the period than at the beginning. The year 1964 showed a minor
upturn, but Kenya s employment is still below the 1960 level.  The situation
for Africans was isomewhat better, as Europeans and Asians departed, but; it
may be hard to employ many Africans unless they can be educated and tirained.
46.       rhie dec:iine in agricultural employment resulted from the conversion
of large-scale farms to settlement schemes and the conversion of formerly
employed farm workcers to self-employed subsistence farmers.  The shift from
employment to self-employment status and the decline in the number of
employed persons are factors which should be taken into account by educational
planning.
47.       As a part of the Economic Development Plan, Kenya arranged for the
Ford Foundation to make a manpower survey.  The resultant analysis shows
high level occupations in four categories. Category 1 contains those occu'
pations requiring a university degree or equivalent. During the plan period,
5,600 additional such workers are needed, with the visible supply estirn ted
at 4,600. The principal shortfalls are in those teaching posts which require
university degrees but agricultural growth will also call f6r s 6bMtantial
increases in the number of agricultural professional worditis



-9.-
48.       Category 2 occupations are those which require two to three y,ears
of formal education and training after secondary school Form IV completion.
Nearly 24,000 of this category will be needed in the plan period, with fewer
than 19,000 estimated to be available from present post-school training
facilities. The bulk of the requirements is in Government and formal train-
ing is to be provided in Government M4inistries. The greatest single shortage,
of some 3.200. in this categorv is pnropArlv trained Drimarv school teachers.
49.       Categonr 3 occunations are those which reouire a seeondarv school
education.. Kenya estimates that the plam period will require 25,000 such
addi ti onal wo'kerE.
50.-q inn I I y, rategom-r 4i nme-aiior!svc rinclud ila v+A-nis  s-i II rnot rnrmA II v
requiring secondary education, but in which, in Kenya, post-primary education
is ,'6rVe -..re  VKermr V%need  2,700 more oSP +hese~ byT 19070 *.Ti+, es+tn+A  siu.plyr
of only 350.
Africanization
51.       Kenya has undertaken to Africanize its high level manpower pcsitions
Vo h  - lse1n possible         vli:e 1-- isro   lerhwfatteGvern-
too IjIt      t;L±eI  Ak,1ik j.JUbL.LL.LU* V41.LI~ s. rL 'lto ULuag nluw lab  L'1iu u.LYU
ment twill undertake to displace presently employed Europeans and Asians, it
is the  o vernment s intent,ion that afuricans shouQL be appoi-nte tu  a  n i ieGw
posts.
52.       The racial breakdown of the four major categories of occupations
covered in the survey in 1964 was -
EUROPEANS          ASIANS          AFRICANS
Total Percelt    Tottal Percent   Total Percert
CATErr R v 1         369A7    <.l-    1 7I5  926.9    1 )-7A   2927
CATEGORtY 2          1,890    14.7    1,229    9.6    9,696    75.7
CATEuOEIY) 3J 6,65         11.%J  178'      39. V0,55 '2 7      }aU-.  ;
CATEGORY 4              97     2.0      796   16.5    3,937    81.5'
Total            11,912    17.2   21,610    31.2   35,668   51.,
The Africans in Categories 1 and 2 were mostly in the Civil Service. The
majority of Africans were in jobs calling for more education than they
actually had.
53.       The manpower survey showed that a secondary school output of at
least 57,000 over the period 1964-1970 was necessary. If an inevitable
"fdrop-out"l is taken into account, the conclusion of the Education Commission
that a secondarv school intake of 66.000 students is needed seems justified.



1c0-
The project as described below will satisfy a portion of Kenya's secondary
school develorrient program. To fulfill the entire demand. an appreciable
additional contribution must be made by Kenya outside the project.     mis
is in process of acLiu±t Vt1iiLtU Uy ILUoU GJ..L £citJILU UUi.Lzat-iorof UOI U exstig
facilities.
V. THE PROJECT
The Droiect consists of constructing and eauipoing the followi-ngt
1/      2/
New    Improved   Places    r?   Annual In-
SchOO1lS  Schlools  Added   .Added crease  in          Costs
Outpult
L         UTJS$ -r.1J h.
Forms I-IV     16        10    10,0 00     %    0 2730   1 I    0),00   3. 7,  ill.
Forms V-VI      0        10        820   49%      450      191,400      0.54   "
Schools        2         7     1,250    3:L%     270      322,200      0.90   "
e a sc 11-* ; . r
Colleges       0        18       950    20%      485      422,500      1.18
Staff Housing                                               729,000     2.0' O
Contingencies                                              450,000      1.26
Total                                               3; LLO,. 000   9 .66
_ _  _    _  -~~~~~7 __ 4
'./ afLL j9L~ p Ject ~ U  1enrollr,LUitU
2/ by 1970
-%.     The Droipet includes the construction and equipment of the four
kinds of schools shown above plus housing for teachers, at a total cost
estimated to be t9066 million (Tahle Anne X     and iMap)  Tn vipw of the pre--
paratory work that must be done, construction probably cannot commence
before early summer, 1966.   Completion b'r Derce.m.ber 31, 1969 seem,s a realis tqic
forecast.  The design and specification of the structures and equipment is
norwIT ftankeing pml e a Amn -sni-d $1R mRiAli   wou]l.rl go topy the fori gn
exchange cost of imported materials, representing 19 percent of the total.
From the. pro,,e.et 13 l0 additio.nal places 'fO'd be 1adde  at seodr 
and the annual. increase in output would be 3,935 studernts,   A total of 18
new schools woi I'.d be. bOu'Lilt and . would be .L. -proved or e-r,ded.



Forms I to IV
56.      S'ixteen new structures are for Forms I to IV, adding 48 streanms of
secondary education, in wnich 6,720 students can find places.    In 19 other
localities present structures would be improved, expanded, or better equipped,
adding 30 streams or 4,200 places.   The total cost will be $3.74 million.
Altogether., 11,000 places would be ad(ded, increasing the pre-project enrollment
by 42 percent and increasing the Form IV enrollment (graduates) by more than
2,700 (Annexes 7 and 8).
57.       Seventeen of the additional streams are for the education of girls
and 61 for boys. IFive of the Forms I.-IV schools included are for day students
only, ten are for boarding students only, and 20 will accommodate both day
and boarding students.   Fifty percent of the places added by the project are
for boarding students. The boarding counts for 29 percent of the cost cf the
project. Hroever, by 1970 at the completion of the project only 39 percent of
all secondary school students would be boarders, compared with 47 percent in
1964.
58.       Tn addition to accommodations being provided by new construction
or the purchase of new equipment, 1,2930 places will become available through
expanding the sizes of the classes and the better utilization of facilities
already in place.
59.       Ifn every one of the 35 schools included in the proposed project,
students 'would have the option of fol:Lowing an agriculture, commercial,
industrial or home economics specialization. to acQuaint them with the
applied practices of modern societies, on the land, in the home, in work-
shops. and in offices.
Fo"rms V ancl VI
60.       'n ten              qtcmtitiS SeGondary schoo1 Forms V and VT faGi1itieS
would be expanded at a cost of $0.54 million to accommodate 820 additional
students, increasing Forms V -a1 VI enrollment by 49 r_rcent and inc
the annual output by over 400 (Annexes 9 and 10).    All of the schools tc
be expandecl by the proposed pronect in this category would pronr de board.ing
facilities,
Technical Schools
61.       1he proposed project would construct two new technical schools and
assist  --n..-  otb.rc  with addi+tonal -b-c-.rr -ar. +ennclg equip-r. t .-  I'hr
total cost would be $0.90 million.   An additional 1,250 boys will be able to
t -Ue 4tecUlic.l Couses 4n UJ- .A the fu411            L    1- --- '.J. f s e 
technical Schools each year (Annexes :L1 and 12).   Ninety percent of the
add4it-nl- places wA.ill Ibe for bo._Ar,- student.



62.       Heretofore, the technical schools have been able to train 2,300
students. The new emphasis in Kenya's technical education will provide an
extended period of classroom, laboratory, and workshop instruction followed
by related on-the-job training in the same fields of work.   The project-
assisted technical schlools would be closely geared to industry and provi:de
instruction in courses to supplement employers' training efforts in pre--
paring boys for "jumior technician" jobs in the metal trades, mechanical
trades,and electrical trades.
Teacher's Training Colleges
63.       There are3 now 34 small, primary teachers' colleges in Kenya. The
proposed project would provide better equipment and teaching for more students
in 18 of those 34 colleges, at a cost of $1.18 million.   The project would
add 950 places, increasing the enrollment by 20 percent and increasing t4he
output by L8t teachers per vear. These additions are needed to increase the
number of qualified teachers to take care of expanded primary school enroll-
ments.  The nrolect-axnanded colleges woild meet 70 percent of nrimarv
teacher training needs, with the remainder to be met in the other colleges
not be.ing, increased in enrollImPent..  The teacher training colleges are operated
as boarding schools (Annexes 13 and l4).
Teacher Requiremaents and Sup,ply
64.       It will be necessary for Kenya to rely upon expatriate teachers
fr - large proportion o+    PnnrArr en-m. -nr + -.nn olnto
n~~~~.     va keW   sVAA          -1 - -          --     v  ;  w->--  -,r .v . a6_ vas v vvv_
(Annex 15). Twenty-five percent of teachers are African at present and an
hrc.&air    of the t each4r.g profession 4s on the lway, bu  nt-t
Afr ca     za io  ofUL   Iola. L 4u UUA.±.L±e L  .. ~ V  A  .L J.L  UJ  V J IJU.  LIJU  L..UU.L
recently has there been any local secondary teacher training. In the past,
lnikya 1"s~ Ube[n fovrcu LV LU.Ly UoJI IJI.L; UUtIJj .U  tL.LUL e P±c± £ LU'ty oAfcatior
of Nakerere College in Kampala, Uganda.
65.       Kenya has at present 1,880 teachers in secondary schools and teacher
training co-lleges0  Nearly all of them are qualified. The demand in second-
ary schools will, according to estimates done by the Education Commission,
increase from 1,70C in 1965 to 2,950 in iY9U.   rne proposed projech woulu
absorb about 550 cf this increase.   Ulew Kenya teachers can be developed to
a total of 1,250 cduring the period (para 38), Excernal sources expect to
keep at least 600 teaching posts fiLed, partly as replacements, partly as
new posts.  There is, therefore, a balance between demand and supply or
perhaps a surplus. The surplus may be available for unaided secondary
schools.
66.       The prirmry teacher training colleges would require about 85 new
instructors. There should be no difficulty in recruiting these as posts in
teacher training colleges are usually easier to fill than in secondary
schools.



Staff Housing
67.       The provision of staff housing has characterized Kenya's educ-a-
tional system as long as it has existed. Other ministries provide pro-
fessional and executive personnel wiith housing as a fringe benefit at a. more
or less uniform st-andard according to the level and status of the perscnnel.
Staff housing is needed so long as Kenya's civil service is made up mainly
of expatr:iates, but staff housing may have to be provided for school teachers
permanently because housing is generally very short especially in rural
areas,
68.       The pro ject provides that $2.04 million will be spent on staff
housing, including necessary profess-Lonal and supervision services. This
sum represents 24 percent of the total cost, reduced from about 40 percent
in the original Kenya proposal. The saving thus achieved has been used to
produce m.ore places in schools.
69.      IDA has reviewed the standards and adequacy of housing which would
be designed and built under this credit. The Government of Kenya will make
detailed suggestions for staff housing for the approval of IDA within agreed
standards.
Construction Costs
Basis of Estimating
70.       The construction cost estimates are derived from costs of building
per square foot, based on standard designs and recent building experiernce.
For each 1type of structure to be put up. recent costs were taken and adjusted
upward or do-minward to account for modifications that are to be worked into
the nfTw buildings!
Cont i n  .ni es
71.       FoRlloring TnHdependencr  Ken;ya's total hniiling ac-tivity dropped by
two-thirds. In the last year, however, building activities have increased
nnrl      l hnup ri9can Mr 2buiit 10 rnrnpnt.-. nnd are AmrAo-te to r-ontinui to
rise but at a slorer rate. The IDA project cost for the first year of con-
struction wnoul, h nbe  ii+t 30 percent of all buI  i Ildirc nt-i -t- in Kenva, and
its undertaking may have an effect on cost.
72.       It is for these reasons that a 5 percent price increase allowrance
hlas 1been. p,,-i%-t,dt in I- inn le valu ., e of the41 projeCt  S.r  1 fl,lVceof
10 percentl of the value has been made as a contingency to accommodate un-
an,ticipat e dA constLrUc.Ltion aUd s.ite pS-LnnJL.J prolems
.L_d
73.      7n.e Government of       ilenya w p.11I ]?rovude the landa nece-ssary - Dor the
construct:ion without cost to the project. In most cases the land is al.ready
government owned or can be oboained by condemnation at only nominal costs.



JL4-
Quality of Design
7b0       Architectural design and construction vary considerably, with
excellent quality to be seen in the Nvairobi area, where in recent years
80 percent of building activity has been concentrated.  The rural areas
have a lowrer quality of design and construction, depending on the architect
and contractor used, whose choice haS been at the discretion of the local
school authorities.
75.       Schools have followed standiard designs prepared by the Architectural
Branch of the M4inistry of Works, Communication, and Power. The structures
are simple and bare. Any local school authority which chose to use a private
architect has been permitted to do so and special allowances have been made
in the grant of ftmds by Goverrment for such professional services. Some
schools constructed in this way are attractive and still within the cost
ceilings allowed by Government.
76.      TIhere are 14 architectural firms in Kenya, many of whom are able
and eager to undertake the work involved. As the Ministry of Works does not
have sufficient staff of its own to cope with the size of the project,
private architectS in collaboration with the Ministry of Works should be
used.
77.       The sum of $398,COO has been allowed for professional services,
including desien. architectural engineerin8 services, quantity surveving and
supeaivision by government building inspectors, with respect to the educational
and boa.rdinp faci-Lities. The Ministrv of Works is nrenaring new standard
drawings in collaboration with one or two private architectural firms.  These
stanHard dirawings would hb used as a hasis for all of the sehools in the
project.  Additional architectural firms as needed would be used for adapta-
tion and site plnanning.
Maintenan.ce
7A            1-±"n J  I J.J  --   T .TflAA. L  -, J  LI4.  Vi tJ" l.  '4-
maintenance and for this purpose are given approximately one percent o:¢' the
vtalue of the buildings per yeIar, which is adequate for such sir  sti'+1 ture
The work done is not always satisfactory.
Basis of Contracting
79.       There are adequate local contractors available for the construction
en-visaged irn the -pro-ec.  ilost of themX are at present under-mployed.
Contractors are rated for employment on government contracts according to
ite'ir capabilitieis -with regard to size and type of contwract. Special s-ub-
contractors are available and are normally employed as subcontractors to
T'r1e general contractor0  At present there are no foreign contracting f;ls
operating in Kenya.



-15-
80.       Kenya's normal procedure is to call for competitive bids from a
selected 'List of approved contractors; unrestricted public bidding has
proven unsuccessful because of the sharp difference in the quality of con-
tracting :Firms. Standard contracts with bills of quantities and specifica-
tions are generaLly used. Combined with the working drawings, they consti-
tute the contract documents. Paymenlb is normally made monthly against
certificates of completion issued by the quantity surveyor, private architect
or government official supervising the project.  These procedures follow
normal andi acceptable practice.
Basis of Procurement of Supplies and Equipment
81.       The Govornment established its own Department of Supplies in 1955
and incorporated this office into the Ministry of Works. At the same time
a Tender Board was provided which services all ministries and departmerLts
for the procurement of commodities. The task of the Board is to make
recommendations concerning the acceptance of tenders. The final decision as
to whether a particular tender should be accepted lies with the account.ing
officer o:F the Hlinistrv or TlAoartM.eArb for which the sunnlias are recuired.
82.       The procureme.ntof sun1ippl4e.s and equiinnmAn.t fnr nehoo1ln has, herAto-
fore, been decentralized to local authorities.  It was, therefore, not possible
to provide for international competttion.  That practi            resi1 tAed in
higher costs than would be the result of mass purchasing by a central office,
but this Clatter sJystem is now to be instituted.
8,.       T+  1-s  been- the- policy   of  --------- 4 to   4foster   loca'l 4 ir.ustr
and to provide texiders for government supplies locally where suitable goods
can b e obvtainted from0A .1 loCal  U   DUring recent yea%r. As LocaG Al l y sUppD liedJ.
articles could be bought even if they were 5 percent more expensive than
i.mported ,oods.
W4.       All indents for purchases from overseas are submitted to the
Central Tender Board for review before being sent to the purchasing agent.
in tille case oI tne proposed project thnis review could be UondU-teU by Adte
Supplies B3oard of the Ministry of Works which in this respect is a sub--
ordinate body of the Central Board. Tne Supplies Board would hancle aii,
international ten(iring and procurement through the Crown Agents in London.
Diplomatic and consular representatives in Kenya of governments who are
members of the Bank, plus Switzerland, would be notified about the proJect
and about the tendering and procurement procedures through the Crown Agents
in London. Similar notifications wi:1l be sent to the diplomatic representa-
tives about the construction contracts.
85.       The Government Supplies Board is well staffed and efficient and
should be able to deal with the workload of the proposed IDA project.



-16-
86.       The cost of equipment and furniiture in the proposed project Is
estimated at $1,3(0,000 with an additional $70,000 set aside for insurance,
freight and installation. An allowance of 15 percent is being added for
price increases oIr specification changes during equipment procurement.
The detai:Led lists of equipment upon which these prices were based will
permit tho presently planned curriculum to be carried out at adequate
levels,
Foreien Ecchange
87.       %hildino gnatAriaql in Kenvya arn in adeqrnte snpplv excerpt thn.t
steel, glass, irormongery and sanitary and electric fittings must be imported.
Tmnprt+rP Yntnprinlez forrnm 15: rcrnt no thA c-tuin cost.   ',o-.'.   r  of
-1 _   -  -   ---  - .  ---  -   r-- … -….2.2. 14U 2              U.)  _- ~A ViU '
the total. constructicn costs is customs duties, which tlhe Kenya Goverine.nt
' I 'I                                   I-~UU±~~I.V1U U   U-  -U -44L-4-3 I_UU '%
tJill deuc fro., c'laim,s f4or reiml;11urE.-,V&er.t toV be~ DULA,IIt toIDA
88I Tlmost none of the teachirI       and laboratory    %A      re quire  can
be obtained in Kenya. This does not apply to school furniture, as there are
severalo f'4rm6f in lJnner., ,m,   narir.g Adesc. F+ a fP+  pe ---rcer.+ -f' +he cor+
of furniture represents, however, fittings which must be imported. Educa-
tiona1 equipme.nt :r-ay bDe irmportueda f r ee1 ofI II duty .
CZ  I4)   . _  -                     - -1JLIL  __.U4LIO.34.L-   4J.la4.i-.L  UV2.4  .LL  4  iJ.'Ii'I
89.       PreiLgn exchcArtge costs are UCIA.i;,=eU LoU tal0UC_ $1e86U rLIU I I 
Disbu\rsem3nt
90.       The funds of the project will be disbursed mainly over a three-
year period as th(3 construction will be phased in three stages, each for
approximately a onle-year period.  Before the actual construction startS,
an estimated expenditure of about $0.2 million will be incurred (for sLte
surveys, professional fees, etc.).  The Kenya Government intends to spend
on construction in the first staze about $3.7 million. in the second stage
$4e5 million and during the last year about $1.2 million. After practical
comoletion an amount of 0.1 million should be withheld for the defects and
liability period of nine months. During the three stages of construction,
monthly navments ij11 be made to the contractors according to their certified
progress and the rate of disbursement during the three years can be expected
to be fairly even (see Apmnex 18).
Project Office
91.       At least five separate divisions within the Ministry of Education
are responsible for one or another part of this project. In addition, the
Treasury, Ministry of Works, Ministry of Planning and the President's Office
each has its own responsibilities that bear upon the completion of this
project. It will, therefore, be necessary that at a fairly high level of
government a project officer be designated to assure coordination and inter-
change of information between the several officials concerned. The Kenya
Government has agreed that such an officer will be designated in the Ministry
of Education.



-17-
VI, FINANCINl3 EDUCATION
1960-1965
92.       Primary education is now almost entirely the financial responsibility
of local atuthor+tins. Tn earlier vyears - the total cost of EuroTean and Asian
schools and two-thiLrds of the costs of African schools were charges of the
Central Cover.^ +. --t Th.escosts to thel j* r.trQ  50.e* 1fr.Int a e  mnre thnn
I, 3 5 million per amnum during the fisca:L years 1960/61 to 1962/63 and have
been reduced to oan eastim.ated T 13210  l in 1965/66 due to +he shift to local
authoritie:s.  It will be necessary for the indefinite future to maintairL
fees +o fiA.r ,e thes     A    n seco,ndar  so  y;. rngrvn  allgnni i ar $6j4r
per year in a boarding school and $29 per year in a day school.
93.        In fiscal year 1961/62 the LKenya Central Government spent about
7. miLul:.Lon on tub recurrenb cots of± eQucation, which figule deC±iiuu to
I 5 .2 million in the current fiscal year 1965/66, as costs of primary
educatiLon iLncreaLJiug±yY hl-ave to be met by local authorities.  Fees have
sharply declined from nearly ; 0.9 mi:lion in 1960/61 to an estimated
b ±0(U uuu Lor Zi±5`6o6 as a source oI revenue to the Central Government. In
1961/62 the overail public e:;-. -ditura3 on educ-ation amounted to about one-
sixth of the total government expendiibure of X 4303 million.  In the current
fiscal year 1965/66, less than one-tenith of Kenya's total public expendi.-
tures, estimated at E 55.8 mill ion, is for educational purposes, which
implies that there is some latitude for increasing the Central Government
contribution to educational expenditures.
94e      ]During the period 1960/61 to 1965/66 the total capital expenditure
on education rose from less than ; 700,000 to E 1,500,000 with the general
revenue of the Treasury being relied upon to supply practically all of it
(Annex 16).
1965-70
95.      'The development plan of Kenya provides that Central Government
total recurrent expenditures for secondary and higher education, almost
exclusively accounting for the overal:L increase, will rise to ; 8 million
by the end of the plan period (Annex 1L7).
96.       In the period between 1961 and 1970 Central Government recurrent
costs on secondarv general education will more than double from T 1.6 mlllion
to E 3.5 million.  Similarly, the Central Government expenditure on techmical
education will almost double from ; 3160.000 to ; 680;000 and the samne annTies
to the trend of teacher training costs rising from E 750,000 to b 1,320,000.
Admini stration oosti will neArly trinple while Kena'sq onnl-uihnt-nn to the
costs of h:Lgher edtucation will more tihan double (Annex 17).
970       Kenya's past and prospective expenditures on education, when con-
sideredras a fracton of probable total available revenues, are within t.he
limits which most inderdeveloped countries have found themselves able to
reachnl.



-18-
VII. CONCLUSIONS
98.       During the period 1964-1970, Kenyafs requirements for high level
manpower call for an additional 57,000 persons who should have secondary
education plus training to carry out the jobs to be performed (para 53).
99.       The necessary expansion of secondary education can be achievod by
increasingn the nwuber of pupils per class, by adding new classes to existing
schools and by constructing new schools.
100.      There is a shortage of secondary school teachers in Kenya but
the supply is expected to be sufficient to cover the demand caused by the
planned expansion (paras 65, 66).
101.      Klienya students would have to be provided for the most part with
boarding facilities (paras 57, 60C 61, 63).
102.      There i,9 an adaouate number o:f comnetent contractors in Kenya
to carry out the :project. Costs may increase above the levels on which
the DrAsent estimates were computed and a contingrenev allowance has been
includied to cover those cost increases ,as well as to cover the costs of
adap~tingt standard desirn'.q of buiildings to'the inil.rirhil sites~ on iwhio
they are to be built (paras 71, 79).
103.      The list of equipmrent to be procured is adequate.  The procurement
proecre toer   be fortla w  orld revspect TDA S T ta.r  o 6+nnlnA-frv-  ! n
competition (paras 84, 86).
104.      Satisfactory assurance should be'obtained during negotiation,
L,.LdL-. A.I  £0 ±±OW.LU  W1 -U1  W.LJ. UO  bdk-  1  U±i0I±L  JLjL k±  LUJL
thatL tsheu fllU.LLWng1 actionsl -w.Ll b'e takenr in conn6lEction witoh thff imp-le-
mentation of the project:
i) Coordinate the expatnsion at secondary level with the
estimated manpower requirements of the Economic Development
Plan as it may be modified from time to time (para 53).
ii)  Investigate examination procedures and content of secondary
schol. level wl±i a view io their mouuLlizatUloH (para 25)J.
1U5       As conditions for the granting of the Credit the Government should
take the following actions:
i) In designing the schools to be built under this Credit,
Ken,ya should engage private architects to supplement
its own civil service staff (paras 75, 76).



ii)  A full-time project of'ficer satisfactory to the Association
should be designated t,o coordinate the several divisions
of the Education Ministry and the several ministries con-
cerned with carrying out this project. He should be
located in the office of the chief education officer of
Ken.ya (para 91).
iii)  The Central Government; should through the project officer
and his pronict unit take full resnonsibilitv for the
impilementation of the project (paras 39, 91).
106.      Subject to the foregoing conditions, the project forms a suitable
basis for an IDA Credlit of $7 'nilliony enuivalert co.ring 73 prcent nf the
whole pro,ject cost.
T   .)_  r'  11 1,
tJUJLy ?, ±L;UU



KENYA: FPRIlMARY AIND SE.COND1ARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT
1. 4                                                                                 i----i~~~~~~~_   _   140
1.4-              I      I                                                                             __1_  _   |  _   g  1-bb
ENROLLMENT
1.2                                                                    _                           ---           120
61 OX           o
ENROL LMENT    _
i .    O     _       _PIM                                              G I          RL. S                          o O O  0
PRIMARY EDUCATIC\N                   p                        GENERAL SECONDARY              O
-j                             ENRO)LLME-N T                                                                             C RTR
CL.                           (.o-LEFT SC'ALE )E=3 -                                L      TEACHE TRAINING Nn
a.                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DROP CAUSED By                                 Z
CLo~ /      LINCREASE IN                 E=    TRADE AND TECHNICAL
FE EES S                                                      U
0.8k                                                                                                             so.0/ i
e                           -                                                                            EF.!RO!L!.4ENT~ .- -
C ).6                           _ _ _ |__                                                                  -_ _
0      ().6 - -   __     _   ,-                                                                                160    3
°-1 o| - . .                                                                                             :::!  ... . . . .   . . . . . a
0 c.4  F   -      ---   !   -~            _ _    _    _ _-v----T                                                        U); r4;4 
I        SEC ONDARY E DUC ATIlOhNy                     ,<. 
I ENROLLMENr '_ _,                                                                      .. / . . odOARDEfiS . ...  .... ..
C).2            1      ~                                         -''                                             -   _-~ 20
__.                                                                                    ...  s , ........   _ .   ........ ., . .:...:::
ir                         ~~  ~' ~ ~; ~ ' * * * . . j * . . ^-GE I R   L ME . r .::c--*..-.*--***-**
2j                                                                                                  .. . . . . .   . ... - -...   . ..... . 
Cl_ -                                                                                 ..  .  _ I      ;  .... 
,. ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      s
0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ;..I 0   I             .... .
1956    1957    1958   19159   1960    1961   1962    1963   1964    1965    1966   1967   lcI68    1969   1970
NODTE. General secondoiry education includes maintained, assisted  and unoided school!                                Zm
(R) 18RD-2843 Xc
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ . . . .2



KENYA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
ENROLLMENr IN PRIMARY AND GENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS, 19,64
FORMS
C:ZV                                             11 8 44
(:')                                             2 171 647
(Vi)                                           1,772 :.,853
(Jr)                                           2,084  1494 i
(C)                                           2,6i96    6,426
I I )  |   3,8! 3  8,sq9
STANDAROS                       GIRLS                                          BOYS
(8)                                   LJ1                                      -_-.4      I 4
(7)                                       28.98,37                     893,Z313 
(6)                                     56.003                        84,3 3
(5)                     LI           4 4.510                            F 87. iB
(4 )…- r-                                                 - - -  - - -7
( 3)                               t - _   _   _.     _                    -   - 4
(2)……                                                                  ___5_3 PS., 2' ,
~i)                        7_  M,   -   -   -     -T-_____                                      __
75,000       50,000        25,000         0           ;25,000      50,000        75,000       I 00,000
GIRLS                                          BOYS                                z
NOTES: Fees were increased  in 1963. resuliling in a drop  in stcindarde  I and  2 enrolIlment  mn thal yenr.  I
The Pyromid includes, mointained, assisted and unaided schools,                     (R)8RC-2818 |X
__~~~~            ~     ~   ~~~                                                 ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _I _  ri



KENYA: PRIMARY EDUCATION                          KEN'YA: SECONDARY EDUCATION
CURVE SHIOWIING NUMBER OF STUDENTS                CURV'E SHOWINIG NUMEBER OF
ENTERING STANDARD I IN 1956 AND                   STUDENTS IENT'ERING FORM 'E IN 1958
LEAVING STANDARD 7 IN 1962                        AND LEAVING FORM 3E IN 1963
(THOUSANDS OF STIJDENTS)                          (THOUSANDS OF STUDE.NTS)
ST'D. 2
FORM f
1 25--  _ _'D     . g               -_T'D. 3        5                   _     _  _5_
\  _FORM m
7 E5 -    -   [- -     ST'D. 4t                       __tt  1    1~_        __T 4
RECEIVE
SCHOOL CERTIFICATE
25-           --    -    ST7 1-          -2-S                      - "-1f 1
ST'D. 7 
l                     l      l            \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORM 7-
_ _   _   I    ~~~~PASS  T  D -                           I>   REC E VE  F. 
O    _         l      l_ _  l  _              I-    ..         _            _ 
KENIYA PRELIMINARY EXAMINATIONvw~                HIGHER  REHOLCEIVE IAT
0                     I    ~   ----               0            --
1956   11957  !95R  !959    9';0  !9'              iSi j958  959  i960  i96i  962   I96i
z
z
_ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   U m~(R ) B R D -28 1 9 J>



KENYA: STRUCTURE OF EDUCATION, 1965
Technical Secondary Education
Technicians          Kenya Polytechnic;
14    Lr   L   i FL_rZJ  -I ~-L<{
Craftsmen    L
L1ThLJ Mombasa _echnicol Instittite
Primary Education
{AE3 b }  e KPE       j   J{  j Medical Training Center
)J7  KPE                          DL
College of Agriculture; Training Center
Generol Seco'ndary Education SIC  ISC
.LJ~L~~~L                  _iml      i rAm . n r--n rl r - Engineering, Science                        University of
LT       W HLii__21     LTti ~[4{LLFL~zFL             iArt Veterinoay                               cairobi
31--F41-F5]d 6     Art, Architecture
Domestic Science, Surveying, Administration
.  .-[3]-_i]-Ii                                                     A section of
Teacher Training                 e   3,TohlTonn
TecS riigE.Africa University, I
LjI                                                        Kampala, Uganda
SC - School Certificotis ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ofers
Teacher Training_
Si 
I  P i   I
KPE -Kenya Preliminary Examiination
-ti-ti               ~~~~~~~~~SC - Scnaol Certificotis
IP2                   I                  HSC -Higher School Certificcite
S I - Secondary Teacher Trainiing
_     I_-F2                                 Pl, P2,P3, P4 -- Primofy Teacher Training
P 3/4i
t ____________________                                                                                            z r
z



KENYA: EDUCATIOINAL. ADMINISTRATION
MIISE OF EDCA                                                  MINISTER OF     1
PUBLIC WORKS
EDUCATION COMMISSION                K   S    E     OF DAN                                      I      M        OF
CASSISANT       _                   _____      ASSISTANT  7
MINISTFER   J                                  MINISTER
ERMANIEN cSECRETARY]
r        'CHIEF EF
LEDUCATION OFF'ICER J
r  DEPuTy CH11EF 
EDUCATION OFFICER 
I_ _Z                             _ _    _       I-                                     _       _     -         ,     _               _   _   _
ADMINISTRATION SECTION                       rP
PRIMARY ADU                                                 I S                            ACCOUNTING            PERSCNNEL
EDLA_ I               MINST1SEC T IONSECI ION
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II NSPE:: I ORATEl
i I  SECTIONEDCIOTRIIGL________
I  IPOT SECONDARY                                                                                                  SYLLBUSES
TEACHE               E    ION             SCHOLARSHIPS           COLLEGES                                         UER
APPOINTMEN ANO           EDUIAT                                                                                APf'OINTMENT AND                     _
K  PROMOTION  j  I                  I                                           I   L     MANAGER               PROMCOT ION *    L.__
TECHNI,;A,     ~~~UNI VERSITY AND
Z  EDUCATION        POST SECONDARY                                                                          __
SECTION              INSTII'ATESEAIATO
PROVINCIAL, EDUCATION                                                CURRI CUUM
OFF ICES                                                        O EVELCOPMENT
I 'ISPECTOR j                                                       NI
OFFI  C E S
EDUCATION OFFICERS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _________ _________________________   NE W   P R IM A RI  APPR OO C
B__  _ O  A |R  D  O  AL   D ';  -  LOCL I  OARDCOURSE
40                                                            _ _ _ _ _ _ _
COUNT 6EDUCATION
OFFICES
3OFFICERS.
OFFICER
DIVISIOS4 A5SSISTANT
AIR D               8 0    R D 'S                    EDUCAT ON OFFICERS                  LO'   BOARDS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A[  KEUCT NOFICR
BOARD          80       05                                                         LOC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEAL BECONARDS
POL-YTECHNIC                          12     ]                        060                               32GNEAL5 ONAR
I            ~~~~~~~TECHNICAL SCHOOLS          PRIMARY   LS                     ENCOL         
*EKPATRIAT ES                                                                                                                                     mIIRO-60



PROPOSED CONSTRUCTIOII, FUEI'ITTUrRE AiND EQUIPMENT COSTS
Construction    6% Professiona1   Furniture   EqUaLpmerit  Insurance        Total
including       and Supervision                              and
Site W,orks        Servicees                              Freight
L                 L                                       L         (L)     (US$m)
Secoldiary Schools Form I-IV    1,055,500             63,A00      11h,200    92,()00      9,800    1,334,900   3.74  45%
H.S.C. Streams V-VI              135,800              8,200        12,500     32,000       2,'300     191,400   0.54   6%
Technical Schools                191,000              11,5;00      12,900     96,500      10,300      322,200   0.90  11%
Teacher Training                  348,500             21,C000      32,200     18,800       2,000      422,500   1.18  14%
Staff Housing                     631,200             37,5100      59,900       -           -         729,000   2.04  24%
2,362,000            1142,C000    231,,700   '39,300      25,000    3,000,000   8.40 100%
15% for Contingency      450,000   1.26
L3,450,000  $9.66 m
Foreign Exchange                       15              -             25%          100%       I0%        19%
3514,300                      57,925)      239,300   12,500     L664,o25  $1.86 m.
I.



PRESENT AND PROPrnSED ENROLLMENT AND OUTPUT
IN MAINTAINEI) AND ASSISTED GENERAL SECONDART SCHOOLS
FORPtS 1 - IV
Pre-Project                                                                                     Number         Total Number
3/        Number of       P're-Project      Pre-Project     Streams     Total Number      Form IV        Streams         of Places        Forn IV
Streams        Enrollnent       Enrollment       to be       of Places to     Places to       jan.'70         Jan. '70         Places
Provinice   Name -f School       Courses     Forms I-IV       F'orms I-IV       Form IV         Added        be Added       be Added        Forms I-IV       Forms I-IV       Jan., '70
F_ -  ( )   Y2)  (7T    (2) 
N,imRudI    urara-Jericho          DI             0                 0                0             3                420            105l          3               420            105
Aquinas                I              2               1714               0             1       L6       140     70     35           3                4,20           105
Dagoretti              I              :               116               26             2        24      280      9     70           3                420            105
CENTRA L
Kianyaga               A             IL                58                0             2        82      280     35     70           3                420            105
Iuranga                A              0                 0                0             3                420           lOi          3                420            105
Kagongo                A              0                 0                0             3                420           105           3                420            105
Etiamwangi             A              C)                0                0             3                420            105           3               420            105
Nyandarua             ID              o0                                 0             3                420            lO5i          3               420            1()5
Kabare                DC              0                 0                0             3                420            105;          3               420            lt5
Thika                  I                              232               52             1                                38 11,  18  3;  3            420            105
NJiri's                I             2                232               52             1        48      11,0    18     35            3               420            105
Kagumo                 I             2                232               52             1        48      140     18     35            3               420            105
Tumuturu               D              2               100                0             1       180      140      70     35           3               420            105
Kijabe                  C             2               185               26             1        95       110     44     35           3               420            105
COAST       Ngerenyi              AI              0                 0                0             3                 420           105           3               420             1o5
EASTERN     Ititui-ESt. Charles -
LvLnga                I             2               100                0             1       180       140     70     35           3               420             105
Chuka                  A              0                 0                0             3                 420           105           3               1420           105
St. Teresa's           A              1                35                0             2        105      280     35     70           3               420             1C05
Nlachakcs Girls        CD             1               116               26              2        24      280      9     70           3               420             105
Mulanvo               CD              1                70                0             2         70      280     35     7C           3               420             105
NYANZA      lma Baky              IC              1               116               26             2         24      280      9     70           3                420            105
Maranda                A             1                116               26             2        21      280       9     70           3               420            ic5
Sawagongo              A              0                 0                0             3                 1,20          105           3                420            O15
Plosccho               A              1               116               26             2         21      280      9     70           3                4,20           105
Asumbi Sirls          DC              0                 0                0             3                 4,20          105           3                420            105
Kisii                  A              2               232               52             1         1,8     la 0    18     35           3               120             105



FORMS I - TV (Cont'd)
Pre-Project                                                                                     Number        Totail Number
3        Nunber of        Pre-Project      Pre-Project      Stre ants    Total Number      Form I V      Streams        of Placesi       Form IV
Streums         Enrollwont       Enrollbent       to bet       of Places to     Places to      Jan.'70        Jal. '70         Places
Province    Name of School       Courses     Forms I-IV       F'orus I-TV       Form InV        Added        be Added        be Added        Forms I-TV     Foirms I-TV      Jan. '70
(1)  (2'    (~~W)   (21)
RIFr
VALLEY     Kajiaelo              ID              0               0                0              3                  420             105         3              420             105
Nanyuki               I              0               0                0              3                   420            105         3              420              1105
Nakuru Day            c D                                              0              3                  420             105         1              h2O             105
WESTEFR
Chesamisi              A              0               0                0              3                   b20            105         I              420              105
Anakura                A              1              87                0               2          53      280     35      70          I              420             105
Sigalame               A              0               0                0               3                  h20            105                         4 420           105
M.usingo               A              0               0                 0              3                  hi20           105         3               420             105
Lugulu                 CD             1              58                 0              2          82      280     315     70         3               420             105
Eusire               ID              1             116               26              2          2h      280       9      70         3              420             105
TATA  F";
SCHOOLS IN PROJECT                              27           2,491              190             78        1,289   10,920    5'i5  2,730       105          1U,700             3,675
TOTAL FOR
SCHOOLS NOT IN PROJECT                         218          23l,64l           4,013             25                12,656          4,582       273           36,300            8,625
GRAND TOTAL                                     275          26,135            h,4l33           103                2h,86.5         7,867       3713          51,000           12,300
(1) Enrollrment to be added as ahown in this coluwn  is to result fromD larger classes, more intensively using present faicilities.
(2) Enrollment to be added as showa in this column is to result fromn constructing and eBquipping additional faci:Lities.
3/ In all cases, schooLs will. offer the gieneral curriculum.  In addition, as indicated, options will be offered as follows:
A - Will offer aLgricultural technical instruction.
C - Will offer commercial technical instruction.
D * Will offer home economics techniical instruction.
I * Will offer industrial arts tedmiical instruction.



PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION AND E''I HP!L-IT PROGPAIi
Forms I - IV
,(in East African L)
Facilities to be            Net Cost      Net Cost     Net Cost     Total
Name of School         Constructed             Construction    Furniture    Equipment    Cost
1.   Ofafa Jericho D3     1 Teaching 5taff House      26,819          3,175        2,h00      32,394
Mixed              1 Auxiliary Staff House
2 Subor,dinate Staff Houses
7 Special Rooms
5 Laboratories
1 Domestic Science Room
1 ,Jorkshop
1 Library
3 Day Sanitation
1 Administration Block
2.   Aauinas Dl Boys      1 Mission Staff House        7,707         1,220         1,000       9,927
1 Special Room
1 Workshop, Double
1 Library
1 Day Sanitation Loi-r 220)
Administration Block, EXT.
3,,  Dagoretti D2 Boys    2 Subordinate Staff Houses 1o,L406         1,7110        1,000      13,116
3 Special Rooms
1 Workshop, Double
1 Library
1 Day Sanitation
1 Administr-tion Block
4.   Kianyaga             7 Teaching Staff Houses     53,351         5,60l         3,200      62,352
'Bl + Dl Boys        2 Auxiliarry Staff Houses
4 Subordinate Staff' H0ouses
8 Single Unrit Dormitories
1 Dinirng Hall ?1 & Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick B3ay
3 Classrooms
3 Special Roums
1 Laboratory
1 W JorkShop,, Agriculture



Facilities to be              Net Cost     Niet, Cost   Net Cost      Total
Name of School         Constructed              Construction    Furniture    E(quipment    Cost
4.   Kianyaga             1 Libra.-y
(continued)         1 Administration Block
5.   Muranga D2+B1 Boys 11 Teaching Staff Houses       55,81:2         6,386        3,900       66,:138
5 Subordinate Staff Houses
4 Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall & Kitchen
7 Classrooms
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 W'orkshop, Agriculture
1 Library
2 Day S3anitations
1 Administration Block
6.   Kagonon D2 + B1     11. Teachding Staf'f Houses  55,852           6,386       :3,900       66,:138
Boys            2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
5 Subordinate Staff Hlouses
h Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall and Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
7 Classrooms
3 Special F'ooms
2 Laboratories
1 Workshop, Agriculture
1 Library
2 Day Sanitations
1 Administraticn Block
~ c
X )



Facilities to be           Net Cost       Net Cost          Net Cost         Tot;al
Name of S,chool        Constructed            Construction      Furniture         Equipment       Cost
7.   Kiaxnrangi. B1 + D2  11 Teaching Staff Houses     54,280          5,986              3,900        64,166
Boys                2 Auxiliary Staff Hous/es
5 Subordinate Staff Houses
4 Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall & Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
5 (Ca ssroo;ms
3 Spec:ial 'Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 iJor1z hop, Agriculture
1 Library
2 Day Sanitations
1 Administration Block
8.   Nyandarua B3 Mixed   10 Teaching Staff Houses      81,0o4         8,837              2,4(0        92,281
h Auxiliary Staff Houses
6 Subordinate S faf' Houses
12 Single Unit Dormitories
2 Dining H:all < Kitchen
1 Dispensary & Sick Bay
7 Classrooms
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 Domestic Sc. Single
1 Workshop, Single
1 Library
1 Administration Block
9.   Kabare                9 Teaching Staff Houses      66,066C        6,976              3,h00        76,41i2
:B2 + Dl Girls        3 Auxiliary Staff Houses
6 Subordinate Staff Houses
8 Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall & Kitche,n                                                        c



Facilities to be              Net Cost       Net Cost           Net Cost      Total
Name of School          Constructed               Construction    Furniture           Equipmert    Cost
9.   K:abare               1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
(Continued)          6 C:a ssrooms
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 Domestic Sc. Double
1 Library
1 Day Sanitation
1 Administration Block
1(). Thikai Dl Boys        2 Teaching Staff: Houses         i3,306       2,160 r,00n                    l6h.66
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 Sick Bay
3 Special Rooms
1 Workshop
1 Day Sanitation
L:'.  -jLr-s B1 Boys       2 Staff Houses                   31,2959      3,821               1,000      36,120
2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
6 Dormitories
1 Dining Hall
1 Sick Bay
2 Special Rooms
1 Workshop
12.  Kagumo B1 Boys        2 Staff Houses                  24,721        2,,845             1,000       28,566
2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
4 Dormitories
1 Sick Bay
3 Laboratories
1 iriGorkshop                                                                       c
Administration Block



Facilities to be               Net Cost      Net Cost            Net Cost     Total
Name of School          Constructed               Constru.ction    Furniture          Equipment     Cost
13.  Tumutumu Bl Girls     2 Staff' HOUses              33,h14             3,866             2,J400      39,680
2 Auxiliary Staff Y[ouses
2 tubordina2te StafI Houses
L Dormitories
1 Dining Hall
1 Sick Bay
3 Classroorms
1 Special Room
2 Laboratories
1 Library
1 Administration
14. Kijabe Bl Boys         1 Sanitation                 13,797           :L,121              1,000       15,922
2 Dormitories
1 D)omestic Sc.Rm.
1 Library
1 Workshop
1 AdmIlinistration B:Lock
15. Ngerenyi.              11 Teaching Staff Houses     68,519            7,486              4,400       8Co,405
B2+ Dl Boys           h Auxiliary Staff Houses
6 'Subordinate Sitaff' Houses
8 Sing:Le Unit DormiLtoriLes
1 Dining Hall & Kitchen1
1 Dispensary/SiLck Bay
7 Classrooms
3 Special Rooms
2 Labo:ratories                                                                    O'
1 Library
1 'Jorkshop, Single
1 Wor k shop, Ag:ri culture
1 Day Sanitation
1 Aclminist:ratiOn B:lock



Facilities to be              Net Cost      Net Cost       Net Cost        Total
Name of School         Constructed              Constrnction    Furniture       Eouipment       Cost
16. Kitui St. Charles     2 T'eaching Staff Houses      22,109         ,2,810          1,700         26,619
Lwanga. DI Boys    1 Subordinate Staff HoUse
2 Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
1 Classroom
3 Special Rooms
1 Laboratory
1 Workshop, DouLble
1 Day Sanitation
1 Admirnistration Block
17.  Chuka B2 + Dl        11 Teaching; Starff Housejs  62,933          6,386           3,900         73,2195
Boys               3 Auxiliary Staff Houses
6 Su.bordinate Staff Houses
8 Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall IYr Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
3~ Clas room
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 Workshop, Agriculture
1 Library
1 Day ';anitstion
1 Administration Block
113. St. Teresa's         6 Teaching Staff Houses      51, 759        5,381          3,200           6(0,340
B2 Boys              2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
5 Subordinaite Staff' Houses
8 Single Unit Dormitories
1 Linirg Hall & Kitchern
1 Eispensary/Sick Day
3 Classroo-ms                                                                      I4
2 Special h'ooms                                                                 c 
1 Laboratory



Facilities to be               N'et Cost     Net, Cost        Net Cost        Total
]Nameof School          Constructed               Construction     Furniture      E§quipment        Cost
18.    St. Teresa's          1 Library
B2 Boys (continued)   2 Day Sanitations
1 Administration Block
19.     Machakos Girls       5 Staff' Houses                27,6o6          3,63(            1,700           32,936
Bl + Dl Girls       1 Auxiliary Staff House
3 SubordinaLte Staff' Houses
1 Single Unit Dormitory
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
3 Classroomis
3 Special Rooms
1 Laboratory
1 Library
1 Domestic Sc. Double
1 Day Sanitation
A dLdminiastratic)n Block
20.    Mulango B2 Girls      5 'I'eaching Staff Houses       ,1             ',,2l           L275;927
2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
3 Subordinate Staff Houses
8 Dormitor.iLes
1 Dining Hall
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
3 Classrooms
3 Special Rooms
1 Laboratory
1 I)omestic Sc. Rm.
21.    Homa Bay              6 Teaching Staff Houses        42,Li25         5,186            2,000           49,611
B2 Boys               2 Auxiliary Staff Houstes
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
6 SingLe 'Unit Dormitories                                                               A
1 Dining Hall and Kitchen
1 Dispensa:ry/Sick Bay
1 rClassroom
2 Spec:ial Rooms



Facilities to be               Net Cost      Net Cost         Net CoSst      Total
Name of School          Constructed                Construction    Furniture       Equilment       Cos t
21.    Homa Bay B2 :Boys     1 Workshop, Double
(continued)          1 Library
1 Administration Block
22.    vlaranda              7 Teaching Staff HLlcuses      3   I,h70       3,701            3 200         1L,3?1
Bl + Dl Boys          3 Auxiliary Staff Houses
4 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 Dininrg Hall & Kitchen
J 1 iS p E:ns ary/ Sik C; 'r,ay
3 Sanit ations
2 Classrooms
3 Special Dooms
1 Laboratory
1 Woorkshop,, Agr-icul.ture
2 Day Sanitations
1 Administration
23.    Saq-aTgongo           11 Teaching Stniff HOUSeS      52j323          '8h              3,900        61.809
B1 + D2 Boys          2 Auxiliary SteLff Houses
5 Subordinate Staff Houses
14 'Single Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall &: Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
3 Clessroorns
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 Workshop,, Agriculture
1 Library
1 Day S3anitation
1  dMmiTlistration Block
24L.   Mosocho               7 Teaching Staiff Houses       30,011           3,170           3,200            36,l21
Dl + Bi Bc,ys       3 Auxiliary Staff fHouses
'Subordinate Staff Houses                                                             I;
1 D1- pn4^ n^:v/S- ck I3ay                                                              S 
3 Classrooms                                                                          ci
3 Special Rooms



Facilities to be              Net Cost      Net Cost        Net' Cos,t     TotaL
Name of School         Constructed                Construction    Furniture       Equipment     ('ost
24.    Mosocho             : Laboratory
Dl + Bl Boys        1 Workshop, Agriculture
(continmed.)        2 Da, Sanitations
:1 Adninistrat-ion Block
25.    Asumbi Girls        9 Teaching Staff Houses        42,333           3,575          3,400          49,308
T2 + Dl Girls       3 Auxiliary Staff Houses
S Su'bordinate Staff Houses
'2 Silngle Unit Dormitories
:1 Dispensary/Sic'k Bay
,2 Spiecial Rooms
'2 Laboratories
:l Doimestic Sc. Double
.1 Library
2 Day Sanitatilons
:i Administration Block
26.    Klisii Bl Boys      2 Teaching Staff Houses         16;G614           1466                        18.760
2 Auxiliary Staff H1ouses
3 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 Dining Facility
1 Dispensary & Sick Bay
2 Special Rooms
.1 Administration Block
(D, J
Qt!>c



:Faciliities to be         Nat Cost     -Tet Cost, Net 1o.'st  '1o ta]L
Nam_ecf _Lcol                    Cons7tructed           Construction   Trtur      Euipeent     Cost
27. Kajiado 133 11:ixed        10 Teaching Staff Houses           57,958       6,006      1,400     65, 364
4 Au:iliary Staff lHouses
6 Subordinate Staff Houses
7 Sin,le Unit Dormitories
1 Dining Hall & Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
3 Classroons
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 Library
1 Administrat]ion Block
28. Nanyuld   E2 + DI Boys     11 Teaching Staff 'Houses          64,069       7,C36      2,400    73,505
3 Auxilia:ry Staff Houses
6 Subordinate Staff Houses
8 Sinle Unit Dormitories
1 Dining H1all && Kitchen
1 D,ispensary/Sick Bay
4 Classrooms
3 Special Roomis
1 Laboratory, G. ,S.
1 Laboratory, D.
1 Workshop, Double
1 Library
1 Adm-inistration 'Block
29. Nakuru Day 1)3 Boys        .1 Teaching  Staff House           24,262       2,975      3,4C)0    31,237
D3 I;ixed                1 Auxiliary Staff House
2 Su xordinaate Sta-ff Houses
5 Classrooms
3 Special RoomIs
2 Laboratoric s
1 Domestic Science, SivIEgle
1 I!orkshop, Sing;le
1 Library
2 Day Danitat ions                                                      o OD
1 rrilnicipSRisf HeBau.,-a;>te~Lis"f ,



Facilities to be            Net Cost    Net Cost    Net Cost     Total
Name of 'School                   Constructed             Construction  Furniture Eguipmsnt      Cost
30. Chesamisi   BI + D2 Boys    11 Teaching Staff Houses           55,852       6,386       3,900     66,138
2 Auxiliary Staff 1-Touses
5 Subordinate Staff Houses
4 Single Unit Dozritories
1 Dinin1g Hall & Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
7 Classroomis
3/ Spec±ial Roormls
2. Laboratories
1 Workshop, Agriculture
1 Libroxy
2 Day SaiLitations
1 Adm,1 i n i str -; atiDn Block
1.,  knakuira D! + Bi Boys      -7 leaching Sualf Hiouses;         3521         4,.145     3,2C)      45,616
2 Auxiliary Sta-ff Houses
4 Subordinate Staff Houses
4 Sing:le Unit Dorm-itor:ies
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
2 Classrooms
3 Special Rooms
1 Laboratory
1 Workshop, Agriculture
1 Library
2 Day Sanitations
32. Sigalame D2 + Bl Boys       11 Teaching Staff Houses           49,423        4,716      3,900     53,039
2 Auxiliary Staff houses
5 Subordinate Staff Houses                                                  D toi
4 Sin-Ile Unit Dormitories                                                  H



Facilities to lje               Net Cost      Net Cost            Net Cost        Total
Name of School           Constructed                 Construction    Furniture           LquiLet,        Cost
32.   Sigalame D2 + B.1 Boys  1 Dining Hall & Kitchen
(continued)          1 Dispensairy/SLck Bay
2 Spec:Lal Rooms
2 Laboratories
1 Workshop, Agriculture
1 Library
3 Day Sanitations
1 Administration B:Lock
33.   Musingo B1. + D2 Boys  11 Teaching Staff Houses      53,958          5,586               3,900           63, U4h
3 Auxiliar-y Staff Houses
6 Subordinate Staf'f Houses
4 Single tJnit Dornitories
1 Dining Hall & Kitchen
1 Dispensary/Sick Bay
3 Classrooms
3 Special Rooms
1 Labcoratory
1 Workshop, Agriculture
1 Library
2 Day Sanitations
1 Admi.nistration Block
34.   Luigulu B  + Dl Girls   5 Teaching Staff Housebs     43,365          l,h06               3,400           51,171
1 Auxiliary Staff House
3 Subordinate Staf'f House's
4 Single U'nit Dormitories
1 Dining H[all & Kitchen
1 Dispensa,r/Sick Bay
3 Special Rooms
2 Laboratcries
1 Domestic Sc., Double
1 Library
1 Day Sanitation
1 kAdiinistration Block                                                           Mi
(Ds  '



Facilities to be                Net Cost     NIet Cost          lNet Cost        Total
Narne of School          Constructed                 Construction   Furniture           Equipment       Cost
35.   Emusire                6 Teaching Staff Houses      24,003          3,01'               :,700           28,718
D2 Gir:Ls Mixed        1 Subordinate Staff House
3 Classrooms
3 Speelal Rooms
1 Laboratory
1 Domestic Sc. Room
1 Workshop
2 Day Snnitations-
TOTALS                 1,h38,828      ] 58,838            92,000         :1,689,666
is 1,689,666 or $ 4h,731,o,55



PRESENT AND PROPOSED ENROLLIITWr AND OtUTPUT
FORMEM V - VI
Pre-Project
Pre-i'roject,    total       Pre-Project,                                            Total N4.ber
No. Streams    F.nrollment   Ernrollmert   Streamis to  Places to be Added:           of places to           Streams to be Dpen 1970               Places      January 1970
Name of School Forms V-VI       Forms V-Vt     Form VI       be Added     Form V      Form VT           be Added             Form V           Form VI                 Form V        Form VI
Arts   Sc.     Arts    Sc.   Arts     Sc.  Arts    c.   Arts Sc.    Art.s  Sc.       Arts      Sc.          Arlts Sc.       Arts   Sc.             Arts   Sc.    Arts  Sc.
Nyansza
Homa BS         -      1                                    I 10  -  -  1  1  25  In  2'C  5n                 90             1    2         1     2                25   5D       25    50
Eastern -
Machakos        1      -       17     -      ..       -     _     2      8   50     25   50         33       100             1    2         1     2                25   50       25    50
Central -
Kagumu          -      1       -      1) -a           -     1     1     25   4o     25   50         50        90              1   2         1      2               25   50       25    93
Nyanza -
Maseno          -      1       -      39     -        16    1     -     25     2    25    9         50        11              11            1      1               25    25      25    25
destern -
Kagamega        -      1       -      ho     -        18    1     -     25    3     25    7         50        10             1    1         1     1                25    25      25    25
Nysaiza -
Kisii           1      -      h3      -     18        -     -     1     -    25;     7   25          7        50              1   1         1      1               25    25      25    25
Ccr.tra' 
Nyeri           1      -       30     -     12        -     -     1      6    25    1L  25         20        50              1   1         1      1                25   25      25    25
Nyanza
St. Mary's
Yala            -      1       -      39     -        16    1     -     25     2    25    9          50       11              1   1         1      1                25   25      25    25
Nairobi -
Highway Sec.    -      1      -       50     -        25    1     -     25    -     25    -          -        50             1   1          1     1
Nairobi -
Duchess of      1      -      50      -     25        -     -     1          2';     -   25         50         -             1    1         1     1
Gloucester
TCTAL for Schools
in Project      U      6      llO    188   5         75    6     7    16L,  162   196¢ 250         360      462             1O  13        10     13              250    325    250   325
5 75           575
1150
TCTAL for Schools
not in         21     28     581     752   215       298    3     3    23h  321    385  07         619       798             24  31        2h     31              600    775;   600   77'5
Project                                                _      _            _                        _   _____
GRAND TOTAL      25     3h      721    9hD   269       373    9    10    398   533   581  727         979     1260            31h  h4         3h    44               850  1100)   850  1100
3900
1/  Pristarily by additional facilities to he zrovided in pr-oject;
in a few cases larger classes will. contribute to the inicreased
c- c .en' 



PROPOSED CONSTRUCTIOiN AND EQUIPMrENT PROGRAM
FORMS V and VI
(in East African Pounds)
Net Cost     Net Cost    Nct Cost
Facilities to be Constructed    Construction   Furniture   ELuipment   Total
1.  Homa Bay Secondary School   5 Teaching Staff Houses            30,P04        2,710     5,200      389714
2 Auxiliarv Staff Houses
4 Subordinate Staff Houses
2 2-Bed, Study Dormitories
2 Classrooms
1 Specialist Room
1 Laboratory
1 Library
2  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~frp T,         - - C7 1 (l ........
2. Mancakos Boys School        :) ±eaching Staff  uuose            30,80                              38 71- 5 Oflfl
2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
4 Subordinate Staff Houses
9 2-Bed, Study Dormyitorj.ies
2 Classrooms
1 Laboratory
1 Specialist Room
1 Library
3.  Kagumo Secondary School     5 Teaching Staff Houses            3O,804        2,710      5,200      38,714
2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
4 Subordinate Staff Houses
2 2-Bed, Study Dormitories
2 Classrooms
1 Specialist Room
1 Laboratory
1 Library                                                                      X m
H



Net Cost     Net Cost,   Net Cost,
Facilities to be Constructed    Construction   Furniture    Equipment   Total
4. Maseno Secondary School      3 Teaching StafF Houses             14,378       1,590          850    16,8].8
1 Auxiliary Staff House
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 J9-led St.itY ]r)Qram. itor;y
1 Classroom
1 Specialist RooDm
1 L:ibra:ry
5. Kakamega Secondary School    3 Teaching Staff Houses             14,378       1,590          850    16,81.8
1 Auxiliary StaFf House
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 2-Bed, Study Dorm:itory
1 Classroom
1 Specialist Room
1 Library
6. Kisii Secondary School       2 Principals/Headnmasters Houses    18,526       I,420        4,350    24,,296
1 Tesaching Staff House
1 Auxiliary Sta:Ff House
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 2.-Bed, Study Dormitor;y
1 Classroom
1 Laboratory
1 Library
7. Nyeri Boys School            2 Principals/Headmasters Houses     18,526       1,L420       4,350    2h, 2c6
1 Teaching Staff Fl,at
1 AuLxiliary Sta:Ff House
2 Subordinate Staff Houses
1 2.-Bed, Study Dormitor;y
1 C:lassroom
1 Laboratory                                                                 M
1 Library                                                                     x
0



Net Cost    iNet Cost    Net Cost,
FaciLlities to be Construictedi  Construction  Furniture  Equipment   Total
-                                                     __         _
8, St. Mary'-s School Yala      3 Teaching Staff Houses           L4,378        1,590         850     16,818
1 Auxiliary Staff House
2 S,jbord.inate S taff Houses
1 2--bed, Study Dormitory
1 Classroom
1 Specialist Room
1  ibrar 
9. Highway Seconda;ry Schoo:l   1 Classroom                        3,198         770         850       5,818
Nairobi                 1 Specialist Room
1 Library
10. Duchess of GloucesterSchooll, Classroom                         8,346         600       1,350      13,296
Nairobi                 1 Laboratory
1 Library
TOTAL         l8L,142      17,110      32,050     234,302



SECONiDARY TECHNICAL SCH(YtLS
PPESENT AND PROPOSED ENROLIMITS AND OCUTPUTs
Total          Output       Proposed      Proposed     Increase          Increase     I]ncrease        Tn,I.Se          Tctal               Tot
Sc:nools in ProJect              Enroll-         ilm Enroll-               Uutput       in Enroll-       in output      in Enroll-      in output        Increase            Incr case
Scnools in Project       s~~ent          1965       ment,          1969        ment due to       due to         mient not       not due          in Enroll-          in oujtput
March                       Jatnuary                   Project           Project       clue to         to lProject      ment 65-69          65-669
1965                         19c9                      65-69                           P'roject        654c9
_. _ __       .__ _              ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ___ _                                  _         .        _   ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __
Se,condary Technical Schools:
Kabete             _476                      230           3514          124         NIL                NIL           -               -                NIL                 NIL
Thika                         167             88           336           lo0         169                 16           -                -                169                 15
Machakos                      103             50           2 76           84         173                 34           -                -                173                 3h
Rift Valle                    131                                                                      65 _                                                                 2 H5_ _- 8 5  24
Kisumu                    __ NIL 2'2      '    Lc -       _2 _25__                                                    180
Nairobi          __ 140                                            _     _iO            F               NIL           -                -               NIL                 NIL
Mcrbasa      -                                                                 3 '          _IL__                     - -                               NIL                NIL
Sigalagala                    NIL                                    _NI                                       ___0_0                                                      NIL
Technical InstLtute:
Mombasa                       285             71           360            90          75                 19           -                -                 75
Total for Schools in Project    2,118            768         3,2"0           935       1,254                273           _                               1,254                 273
Schools not in Project
Secondary Trade Schools:
Meru                           88             44            88            44                             -           1 IL             NIL               NIL                 NIL
Mawree_o                      100     =1(                                  0            _                  _                          NIL               NIL         =       NIL
Secondary Technical School:
Nakuru                        1480           170           480           170          -                  -           NIL              NIL               NIL                 NIL
Technical Institute:
Kenya Polytechnic           1,300            291         2,500           1450         _                  -         1,:200             159             1,200                 15;9
Total for SchooDls not,
in Project                  1,968            555         3,168          '7114         -                  -         1,00               159             1,200                 159
Grand Total               4,086          1,323         6,4!58        1,6419      1,254                273        1,'200             159             2,451                142
N.'3. In those cases where increased enrollment or output is shomm as "NIL", the effect of the project w1ll
be to improv-' the quality of the facilities so that better., more technical, more intensive, instiruction
cawn he given, in some cases to no additional students than before the project, or even to slightLy
fewer stuidents.



PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMEINT COSTS OF 'rECHIICAL SCHOOLS
Technical Schools     Facilities to be Constructed       N,et Cost     Net Cost     Net Cost     Total
Construction   Furniture    Equipment
__ --                                L
1.       Kabete               1 Laboratory                           3,700         _           17,302     21.,002
3 Workshops
2 Drawing OffiLces
2.       Thika                3 Single Unit Dormritories            26,4182       2,090        13,300     41,872
4 Classrooms
2 Laboratories
1 Workshop, Mech. Engi.neering
1 Workshop, Motor Vehi,cle
2 Drawing Of'fices
1 Library
3.       Machakcis            6 Teachin  St     House.s             37,60         3,310        13,350      h,76h
3 Single Unit Dormitories
6 Classrooms
2 Laboratories
1 Workshop, Vehicle Mechanics
2 Workshops, Nech. Engineering
1 Drawing Office
1 Library
Dining Hall and Kitchen Extension
4.       Rift Valley           2 Teaching Staff H[ouses             3L4,566      2,870          9,050     L6,486
5 Single Unit Dormatories
2 Classrooms
2 Laboratories
1 Wlorkshop, Electrical                                                        - r
1 Workshop, Vehicle Mecharncs
2 Drawing Offices                                                                x
1 Library
P0l



Technical Schools      Facilities to he Constructed         Net Cost,      Net Cost     Net Cost    Tota:L
Construction    Furnit;ure   Equipment
51,      K Kisumu               5 Teaching Staff Houises              69,3,70        5,846         23,,250   '38,466
1 Auxiliary Staif' Housa
4 Subordinate Staff I-Houses
8 Single 'Unit Dormitories
1 Din:ing Hall and Kitchen
6 Classrooms
2 Laburatuories
7 Wor'kshops
1 Drawing Office
1 Library
1 Store
1 Adrninistration Block
6,       Nairobi                2 Laboratories                        6,6bL             90)        6,40o    1:3,1314
1 Work!shop, Mech. Engineering
7,,      Mombasa                1 Workshop                            2,350             _          5,000     7,350
8.       Mombasa Technica:l     4 Laboratories                        2,950             _          6,1430    9,380
Institutei         1 Workshop, Mech. Engineering
1 'Jorkshop, Building
9.,      Siga:Laga:la           2 Single Unit Dormitories            17,6l6          ],49C)        2, ,350  21,l486
Dining Hall and 'EL.hsn Extension.
2 Classrooms
2 Laboratories
1 Drawing Office
1 Library
T.,.^.'             201,31.2        16,196         96,432  313,9h0
L31 3Q; !0 ol IT ,IS1379; CY2      !x



ANNEX 13
PRIYIARY TFACHER TR-ATIINGT COLLETES
PRESENT AND PROPC6ED ENROLLMENTS AND OUTPUTS
Colleges       Preproject Pre-pZ04-+    Proposed   Propose   Tncreased  Increased
in Project      Enrolment      Output    Enrolment   Output   Enrolment   Output
1.  Kagumo         300          150         300       150         -          -
2.  Kanwenja       225          112         250       125        25         12
3.  Mathari        200          100         250       125        50         25
4. Thogoto         175          100         250       125        75         25
5. Loreto          150           75         150        75         -          _
6.  Kilimambogo    225          112         250       125        25         12
7. Kericho         275          125         300       150        25         25
8. Kitale          225          100         250       125        25         25
9.  Mosoriot       225          100         300       150        75         50
10.  Kaimosi        225          112         250       125        25         12
11.  Eregi          250          125         350       175       100         50
12.  Asumbi         150           75         250       125       100         50
13.  Mbooni          75           37         100        5°        25         12
14. Kiteta          100           50         150        75        50         25
15.  Meru           150           75         250       125       100         50
16.  Egoji          100           50         250       125       150          75
17.  Mutune         100           50         125        62        25          12
18.  Kigari         175          100         250       125        75          25
3,325       1,650       4,275      2,135       950        485
Colleges not
in Project        1.500          600       1.500       750         _        150
TOTAL             X.825        2,250       5,775     2,890       950        640



PROPOSED 2ONSTRUCTI ON IND EQTIPMFq 'r
TEACHER TRAINI]NG COLLEGES
College         Facilities to be        Net Cost      Net; Cost         Net Cost         Total
Constructed          Construction   Furniture         Equipmentl       Cost
1.     Kagumo          1 Dormitory                2,340         200                             2,540
2.     Kamwen.ja       1 Dormitory               9,1.69         7L5              1,200         11,114
1 Classroom
1 Domestic Sc., Rm.,
1 San. Facil.
3.     Mathari         2 Teachers Staff Houses  12,924          995              1,200         15,119
1 Mission Staf'f House
1 Dormitory
1 Dorestic Sc. Rm.
1 Gen. Lab.
1 Special Room
4.     Thogoto         3 Teacher Staf'f Houses   18,'26       1,,505             1,200         21,231
1 Auxiliary Staff House
1 Subordinate Staf'f House
2 Dormitories
2 Classrooms
1 General Lab.,
1 'dorkshop
5.     Loreto          1 Teachers Staff House    24h4h9        2,560               700         27,709
3 Dormitories
5 Classrooms
1 Special Room                                                                       W !>
1 General Lab.,                                                                      ,
1 Adrministrati on



College         Facilities to be             Net Cost     Net Ccs t        Net Cost       Total
Constructed              Construaction  Furi ni ture     Bouipment      C owt
6.     Kilimamnogo     2 Teachers Staff Houses       14,,1h4       1,230           1,200         16,574
1 Dorrnitory
1 General Lab.
1 Domestic Sc. Rm,,
1 Library
1 San,. Facil,
1 Adntdnistration
7.     Kejrinho        l Teachers Staff Houses       6,336           920            -             7,256
1 Classroom
6Ci.   Kitale          1 Dormitory                  13,031         1,015          1,700          15,746
1 Special Roomn
1 General Lab.
1 Domestic Sc. Rm.
1 Works hop
5 Mosoriot      3 Teachers Staff HoUises     30,507         3,570            500          3h,577
4 Dormitories
3 Classrooms
1 Special Room
1 Works ho]p
10.    Kaimosi         4 Teachers Staff Houseas     22,821         2,265         1,700           26,78&,
2 Dormitories
1 General Lab.
1 Domestic Sc. Fm.
1 Workshop
11.    Eregi           2 Teachers Staff Hlouses     2 1 983        2,235         1,200           28418
2 Auxiliary Staff Houses
2 Dormitories                                                                          CD
1  pecial Room                                                                          0
1 General Lab.
1 LnPorkshcp
LandS Pu rc hase



Colle.Fe        Facilities to be             Net Cost   lNet Cost         Net Cost       Total
Constructed              Constructed   Furniture        Equipment      Cost
_             L
1.2.   Asumbi          2 Teachers Staff Houses      36,528        3,956            1,700        42,218h
4 Dormitories
1 Din:Lng Facility
4t Classrooms
1 General Lao.
1 Domestic Sc. Rm.
1 Workshop
1 San. Facility
13.    Mbooni          1 Teachers Staff douse      4t8,979        4,7111           1,200        54,920
1 Mission Staff IHouse
li Dormitories
1 Dining Facility
1. Sic'k Bay
10 Classrooms
1 General Lab.
1 Domestic Sc. Rm.
1 Library
..L Li-L $.~
1 Administration
Land Purchase
]I.   Kiteta          3 Teachers Staff Hotuses    34,396        4,271            1,200         39,867
3 Dormitories
1 Dining Facility
1 Sick Bay
5 Classrooms
1 Special Room
1 General Lab.
1 Workshop
1 Library
1 Administration
15.    Meru            3 Teachers Staff Houses     19,809         2,265          1,,200         23,27T
1 Dormitory
I General Lab.
1 Workshop
1 Library



College         Facilities to be             Net Cost'    Net; Cost        Net Cost       Total
Constructed              Constructed    Furniture        Equipment      Cost
:16.   Egoji           3 Teachers Staff Houses      9,027          1,160              _          10,187
1. Dormitory
2 Classrooms
:17.   Mutuni          2 Teachers Staff Houses    34,234           :3,76:L        :1,700         39,695
3 Dormitories
5 Classrooms
1. General Lab.
1 Domesti-c Sc. Rim.
1. Workshop
1. Library
1. A&dninstrati on
Land Purchc,se
18.    Kigari          2 Tec.chers Staff Houses   18,99La          2,15!6          1,200         22,350
1. Auxiliary Staff House
1. DoIrmi-toiry
1 Dining Faci lity
1. General Sc., Lab.
1. Workshop
1. Library
I' ot al              381,197         39, 51 0        18,800        lo i9,547
L439,5417 or US;IP1,230,716



ANNEX 15
KENYA: TEACHERS IN SECONDARY GENERAL
AND SElCONDARY TRADE SCHOOLS, 1964 AND
PROJECTED, 1965         1970
(NIUMBER OF TEACHERS)
3,000r-     -  _   _3,000
Pdf%KiACDIrAK,C CCDlllTCiir% r'%lDCrTI V DlV I r%rAI DrIADrC!T'T
NON,AFRIC0 ANS RECRJITEDL DRCLY  BY LOCAL BOARDS, U I
2,500          TOTAL SUPPLY OF TEIACHERS                    2,500
TO AIDED SCHOOLS                   0 00| 
rOTAL DEMAND OF TEACHERS    1|-
IN AIlDED SCHOOLS -
2,000                                                       2,000
UNQUALIFIED        I                           V-t-
TEACHERS        I     PACE-CORP VOLUNTEERS AND
NEW  I       1I  Fr~L~      I                I
1,500                         -   H       -:  Il-        11,500
. ..  .   .  
O 0 0i F         1   1  1 :  1    i l     A t1
50                                                      50
NONAFRICANS~~  I  I AFIC ~    Vl 
:0:      .S
1,00  ,   4~     7  ~    j7     ..         .:' .'. *-.i:::} 1,000.-....t*... 
1  ..11 C........12k  W /'1  ..1]    1 
oL~~l It      I  I~1 ]          fl7N   [: 1  i 
1964   !1965   ! 966  !1967    ! 968  I 969q  !970
(R5 I0BR0DMeS44



ANNEX 16
CENTRAIL GOVERNivENT CAPITA]. EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION
BY MAIN ',ECTORS
(EA1:LOOO)
19OU60        1961/62      i9602/60 3   i965f  / c,6*
Primary                      135           122         103               5
Secondary                    405            325         242            87h4
Trade and Technical           68            84           48            229
Teacher Training              71            70           74            341
Higher Education               -              -           -             ';O
Miscellaneous                  3              2           1
Total E-cpenditure        682           603         468           1,4'9
* Budget 'Estimates



CENTRAL GOVERNMENT RECURRENT COSTS IN EDUCATION 1961/62 - 1969/70*
BY MAIN SECTORS
(L 1000)
:L961/62  1962/63  1963/64  1964/65  1965/66  196,6/67' 15?67/68 1.968/'69  1969/70
Actual   Actual   Artunl   Actual   Revised    Freca t Foreca!st Eorecast Forecast.
Estimate
SECONDARY - General      1,598   1,680      1,758   1,90?     2,197     2,566  2,907'    3,222    3,526
SECO)NDARY- Technical       362     367       4?8     43?       514       540    5859      639      681
TEACHER TRAINING            756     692       613     7??       843     1,031  1,164     1,249    1,,324
HIGHER**                   17 62    709       612     677       930     1,2636  I,39n"   1,.20V    1,775
ADMINISTRATION              :745    254       308     330       475       524    576       633      697
TOTAL              3,723   3,702      3,719   4,063     4,959     5,9 27 6,635     7,363    8,,003
*  Excluding PRIMARY and MIS,CELLANEOUS (Speci2l Schools etc.).
** Including government grants and contributions to University of East Africa.



KENYA EDUCATION FPROJECT
CONSTRUCT ION PROGRESS CHIART
YE:AR               YEAR                YEAR                YEAR           9 MONTHS
2       67181911011121 34567819112       23 4151617119 C 11012  234168 90112145             7 
-u          /L. L                             *.*- Raci opetio-
SURVEY ANID-F                                                                                                H/
PREPAIRATION  OF  SITES  L'-:-1 -T--T-rT.rr r _           I 08.4           Mill.o~                    $9.7  Miu   | I
ACcess                                                      r       9.5  Mill.
MVIASTER PLAN           I'01
SKETCH SCHIEME                                                       flI
FINAL DESIGNI          I                                      fr
$3.9 Mill.
CONTRACT
PREPARATIO)N                                         o
T'ENDE'R                           L
Phose  I            loe2hse'
CONSTRUCTION                                         I      iwerHPa                          3H        IjL
___ ___ __ ___ ___ __ ___ -        1 L i J L J i ~ ~                                         D fecsLA.  io ility  -
Pructicl Competion  3110-Period
r~ c  ~  qi rJc~(Cum-ilativit) a .- '                                  .".Io         omlto  ---~
-(Yearly)      ,.$02Ml1       .:$3MIK;j.....$,                 $           i Mill             $ 0 1 MillI
TotalI  9.5  Million  US  Dollar  r__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
(31R)l8RO-29136 --
CDj



STANDARD O:F A030MODATION UNIT COSTS JPNUARY 15966
B3uil4ding                     Consuction      Furni .iture  REn i nrnint,      TOTAL
cost            ccst          cost,
HOUSING,
Principals/Head Teachers Houses           2,000             150          -               2,:L50
Teaching Staff House 5c                   1,500             150          -               1,650
it   tl    It D                      1,500             150          -               1,650
it   tl    "1 E                      1,175             120          -               1,295
Mission Staff House for 5                 4,000             300          -               4,300
Auxiliary Staff House                        800            -            -                 800
Subordinate Stpff House                     450             -            -                 450
BOARDING
Single Unit Dormitory (35) with/San.       2,340            200          -               2,514o
Four Unit Dormitory (140)   "              9,360            800          -              10,:160
2 Bed Study Dormitory (25)  "              2,340            200          -               2,'40
2 Bed Study Dormitory (50)  "             1,680             400          -               5,080
Dining Hall & Kitchen (280)               4,050             731          -               4,781
Dispensary                                   200             30          -                 230



STAIDARD OF ACCO(I"21.ODATION UNIT COST.S JAINJARY 1966 /Continued/
Building                           Construction      Furniture       Equipment         TOTAL
cost             cost            cost,
T 
ITIITION
Classroom                                         786              200                             986
Special Room                                    1,312              270             _             1, 5 82
Laboratory US or B3                             2,147               45             700           2,89>2
Laboratory H.S'.C.                              5,460              100           4,OCOO          9,560
Domestic Science (single)                       2,550              -               500           3,050
(double)                       L,900              _             1, 000          5, 9C)O
Workshop (single)                               1,642              300             500           2,L42
Workshop (double)                               3,085              600           1,000          L4,685
to    (Agriculture;)                         2,350              150           2,500           5,o()o
if   ((Technicail)                           2,350                                            2,35'0
Draining Offfic:e                               2,000              300             200           2,5C)0
T  -'  -                                        '9 1C\C\ 
Li, urariy                                      20
Day SanitELtion                                   385              -                               385
Commerce (use existing classroom)                 -                200           1,OCIO          1,200O
ADMIMI STRATI ON
Administra,tion Block                           2,44o              125                           2,565
, H



I->~~~~~                         ~i -    c
~~~~< -                      CC CC C   u -
C  3                               ZCC CU*C      CC }s a-   O FJ ;<
wSg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C     C   a   _ A C   AC     v-_ >  V o _ Z uu<°rw DAOrJu;
A  *            u<z z] A<            CCC  C  _   r 'A C i; Cfvz  ° CCCs  I°ZL s<rb ,>
C            CC  C  C                   C Ss  -cz-  l   a3r  ; >D u<.  /.  -o  o  sr*s--2
sa ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  C o      C oS iY zE Y?   ! avr  rr<; zS u Urw >rrzdZoxL  vZ 
W~~~~~~~ i        C  - CA    C  C °  CC  C  CCC   C  h0_ Nr w 0 CC  .Nrxr<N°rSier rzsvxw  01 C0-N_N UW
W ~ ~ ~ ~ C C C   C  AC  CC_ _  C_  _C C _ _C C _._NCCNNNNC.N .NO>
10010CC) COC   3O CCC  CC   CC C   -
AC~~~~~~~9 C/C CC  C CC-C C C CC
C  C  CCC C A  C CCC CCC CC  . 
i                                    r    /.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  1!.'.~~~~~~~~ /
/                                     w) O               ,II
/                             ;;  COC  C0~ l   aC
L Kfi/                                - 
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ e  7° Cl CC
AJ ~ ~  ~   ~  '       t°        j   /t    C  Z, 
, )  _w   e   oio __ Z  ,, ^ i,  k   X  - '-  z D~~~-b  LCE. 



