RESTR I CTED
Report No. P-502
CIRCULATNG COPY
O BE REUInFI TO ARCHII        DISION
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
August 9, 1966



fITERNATIONAL DEVELORMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEEVELOBvMdTT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submil herewith the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to $7.0 million to the Republic of Kenya to finance part of the cost of a
program for the expansion and improvement of secondary education.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Kenya Government approached the Association in February 1965
with a request for financial assistance in the construction and equipment
of secondary schools and teacher training colleges. The Kenya Education Com-
mission in 1964 gave first priority to expanding secondary schools, and
Kenya's Economic Development Plan for 1964-70 reflects the Commission's
conclusions. An appraisal mission, which visited Kenya in August 1965,
assisted the government authorities in modifying and improving the project.
Subsequent discussions and staff visits to Kenya have resulted in the
project being further strengthened.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in Washington in June 1966.   The
Kenya delegation was led by Mir. James Njoroge, Permanent Secretary, Mlinistry
of Education,and included representatives of the Ministry of W-Jorks and the
Treasury. H.E. B. Nabwera, The Ambassador of KIenya to the United States,
and Mr. P. HI. Echaria, Counsellor of the Kenya Embassy, participated in the
negotiations.
L.        This is the first education project proposed for IDA financing
in Kenya. The proposed development credit would be the fourth to Kenya and
would increase the total ID,AL financing in Kenya to $17.3 million.  Kenya
has received two loans from the Bank for a total amount of $14.O million.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
as of July 31, 1966:
Amount ($ million)
Year    Borrower    Purpose                 Bank Loans IDA Credits Undisbursed
1960    Kenya       Agriculture and Roads       5.6                     -
1961    Kenya       Land Settlement             8.4                    7.3
196b    Kenya       Tea Development                         2.8        1.8
1964    Kenya       Highway                                 4.5        3.8
1965    Kenya       Tea Roads                               3.0        2.9
Total                                                      10.3
of which has been repaid               2.1
Total now outstanding                         11.9
Amount sold                        4.3
of which has been repaid   2.1         2.2
Total now held                      -9.7                   10.3
Total undisbursed                               7.3         8.5       15.8
The two Bank loans are guaranteed by the United Kingdom.



- 2 -
5.        Seven subprojects under the 1961 loan for land settlement (as
revised in 1964) have been approved by the Bank, committing about $3.2
million of the loan funds. Two further subprojects, involving about $0.8
million, have been received and are being reviewed. Disbursements on the
tea development project have so far been below that originally estimated as
a result of a much lower than projected cash deficit by the Project Agency.
6.        The Association is considering two other projects in Kenya.
One, for feeder roads, might involve a credit of about $5 million; the other,
for agricultural credit to small farmers, a credit of about $8 million.
7.        In addition to the above loans and credits, the Bank has made two
loans to the East African Common Services Authority for railways and harbors.
Both loans are guaranteed jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda,
with the United Kingdom also being a guarantor for the first loan. The
status, as of July 31, 1966, of these two loans is as follows:
Amount ($ million)
Year   Borrower    Purpose                 Bank Loans        Undisbursed
1955   EACSA       Railways and Harbors       24.0
1965   EACSA       Railways and Harbors       38.0               33.1
Total                                         62.0
of which has been repaid              10.3
Total now outstanding                        51.7
Amount sold                        23.8
of which has been repaid    10.2      13.6
Total now held                                38.1
Total undisbursed                             33.1               33.1
8.        A new loan of $13.0 million to the East African Common Services
Authority for telecommunications has recently been negotiated; it will be
presented to the Executive Directors as soon as the draft loan documents
are approved by the Governments concerned. This loan would be guaranteed
jointly and severally by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
9.        The main characteristics of the proposed development credit are
as follows:
Borrower:                 Republic of Kenya.
Amount:                   $7.0 million equivalent in various
currencies.
Purpose:                  To meet part of the cost of construction
and equipment of general secondary,
technical and teacher training schools.



-3-
Amortization:             50 years, by semi-annual payments begin-
ning August 15, 1976 and ending
February 15, 2016. Fbyments to and
including the installment payable
February 15, 1986, to be 1/2 of 1% of
the principal amount and each install-
ment thereafter to be 1-1/2% of the prin-
cipal amount.
Service Charge:           3/4 of 1% of the principal amount of the
credit disbursed and outstanding.
PART III - THE FROJECT
10.       An appraisal report on the project "Education Project - Kenya"
(TO 528a, dated July 5, 1966) is attached.
11.       The project is for the construction of new, and expansion of exist-
ing, general secondary,   technical and teacher training schools.   It includes
the provision of some student hostels and staff houses, and the purchase of
furniture and equipment. The project covers essentially all of the expected
capital investment in these fields in Kenya in the period 1966-69, but will
create only about half of the new secondary school places to be added. The
remaining places will be provided through better utilization of existing
schools. The project's estimated total cost, including consultants' fees
and allowances for contingencies, is $9.7 million. The proposed credit of
$7.0 million would cover all the estimated foreign exchange costs ($1.86
million) and about two-thirds of the local expenditures.   The Association
would thus finance 73% of the project cost, or about 25% of total capital
expenditure on education, in the period, and the Government would finance
the remainder. Though considerable local cost financing is involved, I
believe, in view of Kenya's substantial needs for external financial resources,
that IDA would be justified in financing an amount in excess of the relatively
small foreign exchange cost. The project would be completed by the end of
1969.
12.       Of the total cost, 79% is for construction, 8% for equipment, 8%
for furniture, and the rest for consultants' fees, freight, insurance and
contingencies. The share of general secondary education including courses
with practical bias will be $4.28 million, technical education $0.90 million,
teacher training $1.18 million and staff housing $2.o4 million (24% of
project cost). With regard to the allocation for staff housing, it is cus-
tomary in Kenya (and other, similarly placed, countries) to provide housing
for teachers, especially since many are recruited from abroad. The present
allocation reflects a substantial reduction from that initially proposed.
13.       The project consists of the following:
(a) the construction of new educational, boarding and/or staff
housing facilities for about 42 general secondary schools,
and about 9 technical schools (including the Mombasa Tech-
nical Institute) and about 18 primary teacher training
colleges; and



- 4 -
(b) the equipping of the buildings referred to in paragraph (a)
above with furniture, laboratory equipment, textbooks and
other equipment.
14.       For the purpose of administering and supervising the execution of
the project and to assure necessary coordination with other agencies, the
Government is establishing within the Ministry of Education a "Project
Implementation Unit" headed by a project manager acceptable to the Associa-
tion and staffed with an architect from the Ministry of Works, a technical
education adviser and an accountant. The Government has also undertaken
to employ qualified and experienced architects and engineers to assist in
carrying out the project and to use contractors acceptable to the Associa-
tion. The increase in recurrent costs of education that will be associated
with the project is within the limits of what the Government is able to
provide from its revenues.
15.       Kenya is faced with an urgent need for more high level manpowrer
to support economic and social growth and to replace departing expatriate
staff. In this country of 9-1/2 million persons only 40,000 students
are in secondary schools and the annual output is less than 9,000 including
about 2,500 primary school teachers. The deficiencies of the system are
reflected in a relatively low percentage of passes in the school-leaving
examinations.
16.       With the completion of the project, there will be 11,800 more
places in secondary schools offering general education. There will be
1,250 additional places in technical schools and 950 additional places in
primary teacher training colleges. The total increase in annual output at
secondary level will be 3,900 students.
17.       The standard of secondary education should improve as a result
of the broadening of the curriculum, and of the additional courses in indus-
trial arts, agriculture, commerce and home economics. Science teaching
will be extended. A study of the school-leaving examination system with a
view to its modernization is envisaged.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       Copies of a draft Development Credit Agreement between the Repub-
lic of Kenya and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for under Section l(d) of Article V of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association relating to the project are being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors.
19.       The proposed Development Credit Agreement is in the form generally
used for education projects. It includes provisions concerning expert
assistance for carrying out the project and an undertaking to provide an
adequate number of qualified teachers in secondary schools.



- 5 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.       An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Pros-
pects of Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda" (No. AF-35, dated September 13, 1965)
was circulated to the Executive Directors on September 13, 1965. The
developments which have taken place since do not necessitate any material
change in the report's main conclusions. An updating Economic Memorandum
covering recent developments in the economy of Kenya is attached as an
appendix to this report. We propose to send a major economic mission to
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda later this year. This mission will, inter alia,
examine in detail Kenya's new development plan, 1966-71.
21.       As with her common market partners, in 1965 Kenya experienced a
somewhat slower growth and a deterioration in her external trade balance
compared with the two previous buoyant years. The slower growth was partly
the result of continuing drought affecting agricultural production and
partly due to a fall of 40% in sisal prices. Although there was a small
decrease in exports, the visible trade deficit increased mainly because of
a sharp increase in imports, resulting from the larger imports of food
required because of the drought and from rising investment outlays.
22.       Although the growth in exports over the next few years is likely
to be somewhat slower than over the past few years because of lower export
prices, the rate of growth of the non-export monetary sectors is likely
to be a little higher. Overall, therefore, future growth prospects are
fairly good. These depend, however, upon a continuation of the stable poli-
tical conditions and the strong leadership from the President, which Kenya
has enjoyed since independence. They also depend upon Kenya being able to
obtain increasing foreign aid to help finance increasing investment outlays
and to offset likely deficits in the current account balance of payments.
The proposed economic mission will reexamine these matters. Kenya has made
good efforts to increase public savings, but these cannot yet be sufficient
to cover all investments in the public sector.
23.       Kenya's total external public debt and the service payments on
this debt are fairly high both absolutely and relative to her foreign exchange
earnings. Although they leave a small margin for servicing loans on con-
ventional terms, I consider that this margin should continue to be reserved
to meet Kenyals share of EACSO's increasing conventional debt. Consequently,
aid to Kenya should be on relatively soft terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
2h.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 6 -
PART VII - RECrMENDATION
25.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Kenya
(Education Project) in an amount equivalent to $7,000,000.
RESOLVED:
That the Association shall grant a development credit to the
Republic of Kenya in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million dollars ($7,000,000) to mature on and prior
to February 15, 20'6, to bear a service charge at the rate of
three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions se-t forth in the form of the
Development Credit Agreement (Education Project) between the
Republic of Kenya and the Association, which has been presented
to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By S. R. Cope
Attachments
August 9, 1966



