CREDIT NUMBER 93 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 19, 1966


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 93 KE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 19, 1966


﻿AGREEMENT, dated August 19, 1966, between the RE-
PUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and IN-
TERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said Devel-
opment Credit Regulations No. 1 as so modified being here-
inafter called the Regulations)
(a) The second sentence of Section 2.02 is amended by
deleting the words "at the same rate" and substituting
therefor the words "at the rate of one-half of one per cent
(/ of 1%c) per annum".
(b) Section 3.01 is deleted and the following new Section
is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.01. Currencies in which Cost of Goods is to
be Paid avd Proceeds of the Credit are to be Tithdrawn.
(a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the cost of goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be paid in the respective
currencies of the countries from which such goods are
acquired.


﻿4
(b) The proceeds of the Credit shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account:
(i) on account of expenditures in currency of the
Borrower or for goods produced in (including
services supplied from) the territories of the
Borrower, in such currency or currencies as
the Association shall from time to time rea-
sonably select;
(ii) in all other cases, in the currency in which
the cost of the goods financed out of such
proceeds has been paid or is payable.
(c) The Borrower and the Association may from time
to time agree on any other currency in which withdrawals
shall be made."
(c) A new Section 3.04 is inserted after Section 3.03 as
follows:
" Section 3.04. Purchase of Currency of Withdrawl
with Other Currency. If withdrawal shall be made in
any currency which the Asociation shall have purchased
with another currency for the purpose of such with-
drawal, the portion of the Credit so withdrawn shall be
deemed to have been withdrawn from the Credit Account
in such other currency for the purposes of Section 3.03."
(d) Section 3.04 is remunbered as Section 3.05.
(e) Section 8.04 is deleted.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Devel-
oplment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-


﻿5
opment credit in an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Ac-
count in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such
Credit Account the amount of the Credit. The amount of
the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account as
provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, the Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the provi-
sions of the Development Credit Agreement, to withdraw
from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall be the equivalent of 73 per
cent (or such other percentage as may from time to time
be established by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association) of such amounts as shall have been expended
for the reasonable cost of goods required for carrying out
the Project; and
(b) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet payments under (a) above;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to June 15, 1966.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(  of 17) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and


﻿6
August 15 commencing August 15, 1976 and ending Febru-
ary 15, 2016, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1986, to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11%o) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the methods
and procedures for procurement of such goods shall be
determined by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, subject to modification by further agreement
between them.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in the carry-
ing out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project or cause the Project to be carried out with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with sound technical
standards and with due regard to economy.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the schools included in
the Project to be operated so as to promote the educational
objectives of the Borrower and to be provided with quali-
fled teachers and administrators in adequate numbers.


﻿7
(c) The Borrower shall cause the buildings and equip-
ment of the schools included in the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary renewals and
repairs to be made thereto.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in
the carrying out of the Project the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed qualified and experienced archi-
tects, engineers and other consultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(e) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by con-
tractors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
employed under contracts satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
(f) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Asso-
ciation for its approval promptly upon their preparation
the plans, specifications, contracts and work schedules for
the construction included in the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein, in such detail as
the Association shall request.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times make or
cause to be made available immediately as needed all funds
and other resources, including land, required for the carry-
ing out of the Project and for the operation and mainte-
nance of the schools included in the Project.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-


﻿0
8
tices the operations and financial condition of the ministries
or departments of the Borrower responsible for the carry-
ing out of the Project or any part thereof; shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods and any relevant records and documents; and shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the goods, the operation of the educational
system of the Borrower and programs for educational de-
velopment in its territories and the administration, opera-
tions and financial condition of the ministries or depart-
ments of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the
international balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall insure or


﻿9
cause to be insured with responsible insurers all educa-
tional equipment financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
which is to be imported into its territories. Such insurance
shall cover such marine, transit and other hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of such
equipment to the place of use or installation and shall be
for such amounts as are consistent with sound practices.
Any indemnity under such insurance shall be payable in a
currency freely usable to replace or repair such equipment.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any sub-
sequent time during the continuance thereof the Associa-
t1on, at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, anl
upon any such declaration such principal shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in this Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
S


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
SECTION 6.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1970, or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 6.02. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have become effective by October 31, 1966, this
Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of the
parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association,
after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes
a later date for the purposes of this Section. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such hiter date.
SECTION 6.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary to the Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Alternative address for cables and radiograms:
Finance
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables and radiograrms:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
SECTION 6.04. The Minister of the Borrower for the
time being responsible for finance is designated for the
purposes of Section 7.03 of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreoment to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ PETER M. ECHARIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of the following:
(a) the construction of new educational, boarding and/or
staff housing facilities for about 42 general secondary
schools, about 9 technical schools (including the Mombasa
Technical Institute) and about 18 primary teacher training
colleges; and
(b) the equipping of the facilities referred to in para-
graph (a) above with furniture, laboratory equipment, text-
books and other equipment.
The Project will add approximately 14,000 places at sec-
ondary levels.
The specific schools included in the Project and the loca-
tions thereof shall be determined from time to time by
agreement between the Borrowr and the Association.
It is expected that the Project will be completed by
December 31, 1969.


