Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7535-MX 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Climate Change Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 7, 2008 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7535-MX 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated May 7, 2008, entered into between United Mexican States (
“Borrower”) 
represented by its signatory on page 5 of this Agreement, and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing 
in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided 
to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of five hundred one million two hundred fifty thousand 
Dollars ($501,250,000) 
(“Loan”), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
support of the Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
The Borrower’s Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to 
be taken pursuant to this Section is the 
Director Internacional 
of NAFIN or any person or 
persons whom such representative shall jointly designate in writing. 
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower, for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a Conversion 
of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the 
Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
Page  3
-2- 
 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purposes of the table in Section II.B 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, including 
the actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through NAFIN, shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved 
in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken before or after any disbursement from the Loan which would have the 
effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
Page  4
-3- 
 
under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3.02 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de Mandato
)
with NAFIN, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to 
the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the 
Borrower vis-
à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal 
applications to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify 
disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds in 
compliance with the terms of this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall cooperate fully with NAFIN to 
ensure that NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN’s obligations 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the 
Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any 
provision of the 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of any conflict between the terms 
of the 
Contrato de Mandato
 and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) T
he
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been executed by the parties thereto; and 
Page  5
-4- 
 
(b) 
the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower and NAFIN and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NAFIN in 
accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s terms. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on October 8, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, t
he
Borrower’s Representative is 
the 
Titular de la Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
 of
SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Edificio 12, segundo piso 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1216 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By
 /s/ Agustín Carstens Carstens 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Robert B. Zoellick 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
1. 
The Borrower has: (a) adopted the National Climate Change Strategy; (b) 
adopted and published six-year sectoral development programs in the energy and in the 
environmental and natural resources (forestry) sectors which factor-in climate change 
considerations; and (c) submitted its third national communication pursuant to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may, or may cause NAFIN to, withdraw the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 The Loan shall be withdrawn in various drawdowns of a 
single tranche. The categories of items that may be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan (“Category”), and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category are 
set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
 
499,996,875 
 
Front end Fee 
 
1,253,125 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
501,250,000 
C. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
Page  8
-7- 
 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is May 30, 2011. 
Page  9
-8- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount in full on April 1, 2018. 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, in the event of a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed Amount to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any Principal Payment Date 
occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such 
amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the 
Screen Rate. 
 
3. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan 
Currency. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, 
through SHCP and SEMARNAT (as hereinafter defined), and NAFIN (as hereinafter 
defined), pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended 
from time to time. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
Page  11
-10- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
4. “NAFIN” 
means, 
Nacional Financiera
,
S.N.C. a Mexican development bank serving as 
the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan. 
 
5. 
“National Climate Change Strategy” means the Borrower’s climate change strategy, 
issued by the Borrower’s President on May 25, 2007, which strategy places climate 
change at the heart of the Borrower’s national development policy, identifies options for 
decoupling green house gas emissions from economic growth, proposes a series of 
potential climate change mitigation activities (i.e., green house gas emission reduction), 
and also proposes general ways to reduce vulnerability to climate change. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to mainstream 
climate change in public policy and set forth or referred to in the letter dated February 4, 
2008 from the Borrower, through SEMARNAT, to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
7. “SEMARNAT” 
means 
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of the Environment and Natural Resources. 
 
8. “SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Secretariat of 
Finance and Public Credit. 
 
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
10. 
“United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change” means the international 
environmental treaty produced at the United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 which treaty is aimed at reducing emissions 
of greenhouse gases in order to combat global warming. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
Page  13
-12- 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for the 
Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, 
on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the 
Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is applicable to an amount 
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes 
of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 4.04 (a), the 
Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
