Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3668 
Operation Name 
Mexico - Climate Change Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (50%); 
General energy sector (25%); Forestry (25%) 
Project ID 
P110849 
Borrower(s) 
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
Implementing Agency 
SEMARNAT 
Date PID Prepared 
February 19, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 27, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 8, 2008 
(I) Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
Mexico emits 643 million t CO
2
e
(or about 1.5%) of total greenhouse gases (GHG), which 
makes it the twelfth largest GHG emitter in the world and second largest in Latin America (see Figure 1 
for Mexico’s share of carbon dioxide emissions excluding land-use change and forestry, and Annex 2 
for a comparison of the top 20 emitters of all GHG including land-use change and forestry). Mexico’s 
emissions have been growing steadily over the past 25 years (see Figure 2) and are now equivalent to 
about 6 t CO
2
e
per capita (including emissions from land-use change and forestry). The carbon intensity 
of the Mexican economy is 837 t CO
2
e
per million US$ of GDP. The main sources of Mexico’s GHG 
emissions include energy generation (24%), transport (18%), forests and land-use change (14%), waste 
management (10%), and agriculture (7%). The oil and gas sector is responsible for about 12% of GHG 
emissions, about half of which is classified under energy generation. 
 
Figure 1:
 
Mexico’s Share of CO
2
Emissions (excluding land-use change and forestry) 
 in 2005 
Source: Energy Information Administration, 
www.eia.doe.gov/environment.html
Figure 2: Mexico’s CO
2
Emissions (excluding land-use change and forestry)  
from 1984 to 2005 
Page  2
Mexico
Total
CO
Emissions
Source: Energy Information Administration, 
www.eia.doe.gov/environment.html
2. 
Mexico will be disproportionately affected by climate change, in particular hurricanes, changes 
in temperature, precipitation (more rain leading to floods in some regions, less rain leading to droughts 
in other areas), and the extent and frequency of floods and droughts. 
The country’s large and relatively 
exposed coastline along the Gulf of Mexico is a frequent landfall point for hurricanes. The cost of 
hurricane impacts has steadily increased in Mexico. Recent data indicates a 1000% increase in damages 
compared to the decade of the 1950s. Projected sea level increases will lead to further impacts on the 
Gulf Coast.
1
Also, recent studies on the vulnerability of hydrologic regions in Mexico suggest that 
potential changes in air temperature and precipitation may have a dramatic impact on the pattern and 
magnitude of run-off on soil moisture and evaporation.
2
Recent data from IPCC assessments on 
projected forced hydro-climatic changes indicate that Mexico may experience significant decreases in 
run-offs in the order of 10 to 20% nationally and up to 40% along the Gulf Coast wetlands as a result of 
global climate change.
3
These climate change impacts would further aggravate the country’s available 
water supply and given current pressures on water resources, which have grown tremendously over the 
past decades, constitute a priority adaptation issue. Reduced runoffs would also negatively affect the 
integrity of major ecosystems, including the system of wetlands in the Gulf of Mexico as well as the 
remaining primary forests in the north of the country. 
 
3. 
On May 25, 2007 President Calderón announced the National Climate Change Strategy, which 
places climate change at the heart of the country’s national development policy. The Strategy identifies 
options for decoupling GHG emissions from economic growth. It also proposes a long list of potential 
climate change mitigation (i.e., GHG emission reduction) activities, as well as general ways to reduce 
vulnerability to climate change. Please refer to Annex 3 for a discussion of the Strategy.
4
4. 
In the Strategy, the country commits itself to reducing GHG emissions on a voluntary basis (as a 
non-Annex I country, Mexico has no formal obligation to reduce its emissions by 2012). The Strategy 
recognizes the possibility for the country to adopt voluntary commitments, and to have those monitored 
1
Hurricane intensity has been increasing in the Caribbean basin with a 40% increase in category 4 and 5 hurricanes generated 
and reaching landfall over the past five years compared to a comparable period staring in 1970 in the North Atlantic. A recent 
analysis commissioned by the Bank indicates that a further increase should be expected as a result of increase sea surface 
temperatures in the Caribbean. 
2
Run-off generally is equal to the difference between precipitation and evapo-transpiration and, hence, from a resource 
perspective, runoff is a measure of sustainable water availability.
 
3
These results have been confirmed through an independent assessment using the Earth Simulator. 
4
Please see 
www.semarnat.gob.mx/Documents/Estrategias_libro_completo_compress2.pdf
for the complete Strategy in 
Spanish. An executive summary in English can be found at 
www.un.org/ga/president/61/follow-
up/climatechange/Nal_Strategy_MEX_eng.pdf
.
Page  3
by the international community (
‘pledge and review’). However, no penalty would be incurred for non-
compliance, and the pledge would not compromise Mexico’s basic right to economic development. In 
addition, emission reductions over and above the country’s voluntary commitments could be offered for 
sale as carbon credits on the international market. 
 
5. 
The GOM has confirmed that it is working on a Special Climate Change Program (
Programa 
Especial de Cambio Climático
)
to be adopted in 2008. This Program will be adopted under the 2007-
2012 National Development Plan, and expand upon the 2007 National Climate Change Strategy, in 
particular by identifying priorities and financing needs for climate change mitigation. 
 
6. 
Mexico City has also issued a Local Climate Change Strategy and is the first city in Latin 
America to have done so.
5
The strategy calls for measures to reduce the carbon footprint of economic 
sectors and in particular, it focuses on reducing emissions from its transport sector, which accounts for 
about 40% of the emissions in the Mexico City metropolitan area. The strategy also prioritizes 
adaptation activities to climate impacts. 
 
7. 
Mexico is the only developing country to have submitted a third National Communication under 
the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.
6
In this communication, Mexico reported its latest 
GHG emissions levels and trends, and described the measures that were being taken to adapt to and 
mitigate climate change. This communication, which preceded the adoption of the National Climate 
Change Strategy, shows Mexico’s commitment to analyze and address the climate change challenge. 
 
8. 
Beyond strategies and programs, the country is already taking steps to reduce emissions from its 
business-as-usual scenario. In particular, visible and well-publicized initiatives are underway to increase 
reforestation and reduce flaring in the oil and gas sector.
7
9. 
With these strategies, analyses and investments, Mexico assumes a position of leadership among 
developing countries. Mexico is part of the “G8+5” group of countries (G8 plus Brazil, China, India, 
Mexico, and South Africa) formed for the Clean Energy Investment Framework and Gleaneagles 
Dialogue. 
 
10. 
To implement its National Climate Change Strategy (NCCS), the Government of Mexico (GoM) 
has requested a Development Policy Loan (DPL) in the amount of US$500 million.  It is to be presented 
to the Board for its approval jointly with a new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) before the spring 
meetings (April 11-12, 2008). The request underlines the GoM’s interest in a continued, strong 
engagement with the Bank, under a new business model deemed more appropriate for a leading 
emerging market economy like Mexico. The DPL would support government priorities within its 
climate change agenda.  
 
11. 
Mexico is making renewed progress on its legislative reform agenda addressing some long-
standing as well as newly emerging structural challenges in enhancing economic growth and reducing 
the still high levels of poverty. In its first year, the current administration led by President Calderón 
5
Gobierno del Distrito Federal. 2006. 
Estrategia local de acción climática de la ciudad de México: Acciones locales, Logros 
globales. 
Gobierno del Distrito Federal, México. 
6
Please s
ee 
http://unfccc.int/resource/docs/natc/mexnc3.pdf
.
7
Illustrations are the emphasis that top public officials give in the public appearances on tree plantation through the 
PROARBOL program,  or the 
Tres Hermanos
 associated gas flaring reduction project between PEMEX and Statoil  
(see  
http://www.statoilhydro.com/en/NewsAndMedia/News/2007/Pages/CuttingCarbonEmissionsWithPemex.aspx
)
Page  4
made progress in proposing, negotiating, and obtaining legislative approval of laws and amendments to 
the Constitution aimed at strengthening the performance of the public sector. These include reforms to 
the federal governme
nt
workers’ pension scheme, the tax policy and administration, intergovernmental 
fiscal relations, and public expenditure policy and management, which were approved last year and are 
currently under implementation. 
 
12. 
The proposed operation would be the first in a number of larger, annual Development Policy 
Loans (DPLs) that make up a streamlined lending program to support an expanded set of analytical and 
advisory services. As outlined in the Mexico 2008-2013 CPS, to be presented to the Board at the same 
time as the proposed loan, the GoM has requested the Bank to change its lending and advisory services 
program over the next few years to a series of on-demand analytical and advisory services and 
streamline the bulk of its lending program into one larger, annual Development Policy Loan of up to 
US$1 billion. The streamlined lending approach aims to minimize the transaction cost of borrowing 
from the Bank, thereby providing access to low-cost financing and freeing up human and budgetary 
resources for an enhanced, higher-value program of advisory services. The amount of the proposed DPL 
is below the annual target of the streamlined lending program in order to provide a transition towards the 
newly defined Bank support program as well as space for on-going FY08 pipeline operations. The 
strategy also foresees a series of smaller, environmentally-focused investment loans and grants. 
 
13. 
Mexico has maintained a solid macroeconomic framework which has moderated output volatility 
and strengthened economic growth. A consistent set of macroeconomic policies, including monetary 
policy within an inflation targeting framework, a flexible exchange rate, a balanced budget fiscal policy 
and public debt management that favors the development of domestic capital markets, has led to a 
substantial improvement of the fundamentals of the Mexican economy. The evolution of the main 
macroeconomic indicators over the past five years confirms a picture of balanced growth with a 
significant reduction of vulnerabilities to external shocks. 
 
14. 
Fiscal policies, successful in reducing the public debt-to-GDP ratio, have been complemented by 
a
debt management strategy that has favored domestic currency financing of public debt. Over the past 
five years, the GoM has consistently implemented a debt management strategy aimed at reducing the 
exchange rate and interest rate vulnerability and rollover risk, shifting away from external debt and 
increasing the share of fixed-rate instruments at longer maturities. Mexico now periodically issues fixed-
rate peso bonds with maturities of up to 30 years. The average maturity of domestic debt increased to 5.5 
years by the end of 2007. 
 
15. 
Despite a reduction in the absolute level of gross public external debt, the GoM has expressed its 
interest in keeping a liquid long-term yield curve in international bond markets as well as maintaining an 
active relationship with multilateral agencies. The reduction of foreign currency financing of Mexico’s 
public debt and its accumulation of international reserves increased its capacity to withstand turmoil on 
international capital markets and avoid external payment crises which disrupt economic growth and 
poverty reduction. Government debt management strategies take into account a combination of cost and 
risk considerations to reduce the longer-term borrowing cost. Even though the spread between the cost 
of Bank loans and Mexican global bonds has substantially narrowed over the past few years, Bank 
financing remains an approximate 100 basis points less expensive for Mexico at the moment. 
 
16. 
The Bank’s engagement to date in Mexico on climate change issues has entailed support for 25 
initiatives, financed by IBRD loans, GEF grants, carbon finance emission reduction purchase 
agreements, grants for capacity building in the carbon finance area, and grants for economic sector work 
and knowledge products. These initiatives are the result of a long-standing dialogue with a wide range of 
Mexican stakeholders and center on the following main objectives: (i) support for adaptation; (ii) policy 
Page  5
development and institution building; (iii) first-of-a-kind mitigation projects and programs; and (iv) 
identification and promotion of short-term and long-term mitigation options 
 
(II) Proposed objective(s) 
 
17. 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the gov
ernment’s efforts under its National 
Climate Change Strategy to (a) mainstream climate change considerations in economic policy making 
and (b) identify opportunities and measures to mitigate the impacts of climate change.  Further, the 
proposed operation is part of the country’s plan to promote environmental sustainability, which, in 
addition to targeted social programs, infrastructure, rural development, and competitiveness, is one of 
the planned areas of Bank engagement in the 2008-2013 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 
Mexico. The CPS also highlights the partnership with Mexico on climate change, aiming to (a) identify 
and implement measures to address key vulnerabilities to climate change; (b) collaborate with Mexico's 
scientific community and government agencies in the strengthening of institutional capabilities and 
access to knowledge on climate change; and (c) promote low carbon development. In addition, 
environmental sustainability is one of the key pillars of GoM’s 2007-2012 National Development Plan. 
 
18. 
President Calderon’s announcement of the National Climate Change Strategy and its adoption by 
the Intersecretarial Commission on Climate Change in May 2007 constitute the prior action for this 
operation. The proposed operation provides overall budget support in recognition of the significant 
contribution that the National Climate Change Strategy will have on Mexico’s development agenda. The 
Strategy establishes the framework and represents the vital first steps for confronting the challenges of 
climate change in a comprehensive and integrated fashion. The Strategy was a truly national effort and a 
major undertaking by several Ministries, coordinated by the Secretariat of Environment and Natural 
Resources (SEMARNAT). It distinguishes Mexico among most other major developing countries. Only 
South Africa, Mexico, and China have also adopted such a strategy.  
 
19. 
The following draft Policy Matrix summarizes the operation’s objectives, prior action, and 
expected outcomes. 
 
Key Objectives 
Prior Action 
Key Outcomes 
Mainstream climate change 
considerations in economic 
policy making 
Adoption of National Climate 
Change Strategy 
Knowledge about impacts of 
climate change on major on 
potentially vulnerable areas (e.g., 
coastal areas and highlands) and 
people (e.g., those in peri-urban 
areas, coastal areas, and those 
living at higher elevations) 
disseminated to relevant groups 
and organizations 
Practitioners and technical 
experts brought together with 
economic decision-makers (in 
same key sectors as above) 
Costs of confronting climate 
change (‘Stern report a la 
Mexicana’) analyzed and 
discussed 
Page  6
Identify climate change 
mitigation opportunities 
Adoption of National Climate 
Change Strategy 
Special Climate Change Program 
(
Programa Especial de Cambio 
Climático
)
adopted under the 
2007-2012 National Development 
Plan (
Plan Nacional de 
Desarollo
), which identifies 
priorities and financing needs for 
mitigation actions 
Programmatic CDM activities 
and CDM projects developed in 
priority sectors (e.g., waste 
management, transport, tourism, 
energy, water, and forestry) 
Low-Carbon Country Case Study 
(MEDEC) completed 
Country ready for reducing 
emissions from deforestation and 
forest degradation (REDD) 
(III) Preliminary 
description 
 
20. 
To support the GoM in better adapting to climate change, the operation will foster the 
mainstreaming of climate change considerations in economic policy making. First, it will raise 
awareness on climate change by: (i) disseminating and discussing the National Strategy on Climate 
Change amongst government and civil society groups; (ii) sharing knowledge on the impacts of climate 
change on potentially vulnerable areas (e.g., coastal areas and highlands) and people (e.g., those in peri-
urban areas, coastal areas, and those living at higher elevations); (iii) inter-agency coordination and 
bringing together policy practitioners and technical experts with key decision-makers, especially in the 
economic sectors affected by changes in water resources; and (iv) considering the development of on the 
ground demonstration projects to help in climate risk management in key sectors. Second, it will support 
the analysis of the costs of confronting climate change (both through mitigation and adaptation 
measures). This study will provide the analytical foundation for identifying concrete programs and 
financing sources. 
 
21. 
This operation will also facilitate the identification of mitigation opportunities, in particular 
through the adoption of the Special Climate Change Program.  
 
22. 
Further, the operation will identify and develop particular programmatic CDM activities, other 
CDM projects, and build capacity for reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation 
(REDD). The Bank will assist in the identification and development of programmatic CDM activities in 
priority sectors that the GOM has identified, e.g., waste management, transport, tourism, energy, and 
water resources. Developing a CDM program of activities may require cross-sectoral coordination, as 
well as strengthening the institutional capacity of sectoral/regional agencies. REDD is also a priority for 
the GOM, and the country will develop its capacity, also referred to as ‘readiness,’ to undertake REDD 
activities. By building its readiness for REDD, Mexico can acquire the methods and systems that will 
allow it to benefit from financial incentives in the post-2012 climate change regime.  
 
23. 
The identification and development of programmatic CDM activities and REDD programs are 
expected to complement the ongoing Low-Carbon Country Case Study (MEDEC) and the existing 
grants under the Bank-managed CF-Assist program. Moreover, the Bank can facilitate financing of the 
programmatic CDM activities and REDD programs under the proposed Climate Investment Facility, the 
Page  7
recently announced Norwegian initiative on tropical forests, and the new carbon facilities proposed by 
the Bank, namely the Carbon Partnership Facility and the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility. 
 
(IV) Environment 
Aspects 
 
24. 
The provisions of OP8.60 apply to the proposed operation. The operation is expected to have 
positive impacts on the environment and natural resources. The operation is precisely designed to reduce 
the adverse environmental impacts of climate change. It supports the government’s efforts under its 
National Climate Change Strategy, in particular the reduction of GHG emissions on a voluntary basis. 
Therefore, in the short term, no environmental costs are expected from the implementation of the 
National Climate Change Strategy. It is possible, however, that in the medium to long term, certain 
mitigation and adaptation measures might have indirect environmental impacts due to the need for 
relocating infrastructure or agricultural activities. These costs would be justified by the paramount 
objective of protecting this infrastructure or agricultural potential in the first place. However, 
environmental assessments for the corresponding investments would be needed so that these indirect 
costs can themselves be mitigated.  
 
25. 
With respect to social aspects, the short-term priority for the Bank is to support the scientific 
modeling of climate change effects on the country and in the region to build the scientific base that will 
lead to adaptive measures. This modeling is expected to provide better estimates of these corresponding 
costs, including costs for their mitigation. 
 
(V) Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
500 
 Total 
500 
 
(VI) Contact 
point 
Contact: Benoit Bosquet 
Title: Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 458-0923 
Fax: (202) 614-1190 
Email: bbosquet@worldbank.org
 
