                                            Documentof
                                          The World Bank


                                    FOROFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                         ReportNo. 42569 MX-




         INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

          FORA PROPOSEDCLIMATE CHANGEDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN

                            INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$501.25MILLION

                                                TO

                                THE UNITED MEXICANSTATES




                                           March7,2008




SustainableDevelopment Department
ColombiaandMexico CountryManagementUnit
LatinAmericaandthe CaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricteddistributionandmaybeusedbyrecipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir official
duties. Its contents maynototherwisebe disclosedwithout WorldBankauthorization.

                UnitedMexican States GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                                        -
                               January 1-December 31

                              CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of March 7,2008)

                      CurrencyUnit          =     MexicanPeso (MXN)
                       10.70 MXN            -
                                            -           US$I.oo
                        US$O.O9              -           MXN1

                               Weights and Measures
                                     Metric System

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDM      Clean Development Mechanism
CER      Certified Emission Reduction
CFC      Chlorofluorocarbon
CHP      Combined Heat and Power
CICC     Intersecretarial Commission on Climate Change (Comisidn Intersecretarial
         de Cambio Climcitico)
CIDA     Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
C02e     Carbon DioxideEquivalent
CONAE    National Commissionfor EnergyConservation (ComisidnNacionalpara el
         Ahorro de Energia)
CONAFOR  National Forestry Commission (ComisidnNacional Forestal)
CONAGUA  National Water Commission (ComisidnNacional delAgua)
CONAVI   NationalHousing Commission (ComisidnNacional de Vivienda)
CPF      Carbon Partnership Facility
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DPL      Development Policy Loan
EMBI+    EmergingMarkets BondIndexPlus
FCPF     Forest CarbonPartnership Facility
FIDE     NationalTrust Fundfor Energy Efficiency (Fideicomisopara el Ahorro de
         Energia Ele'ctrica)
FIRCO    Mexico Renewable EnergyProgram (Fideicomiso de Riesgo Compartido)
FOMECAR  Mexican Carbon Fund(Fondo Me'xicanode Carbono)
FSL      Fixed-Spread Loan
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GHG      GreenhouseGas
GoM      Government o f Mexico
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
IMF      InternationalMonetary Fund
INE      National Instituteof Ecology (Instituto Nacional de Ecologia)
INEGI    National Statistics Institute(Instituto Nacional de Estadistica Geografa e
         Informcit ica)
IPCC     Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
ISAN     Tax on new automobiles (Impuestosobre automobiles nuevos)
JAXA     Japanese Aerospace ExplorationAgency
LDP      Letter o f Development Policy

                                                                    FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


   LULUCF             LandUse, Land-Use Change and Forestry
   MEDEC              Low-Carbon Country Case Study for Mexico
   MIC                Middle-Income Country
   Mt                 Megaton (million metric tons)
   NAFIN              Nacional Financiera
   NAFTA              NorthAmerican Free Trade Agreement
   NCCS               National Climate Change Strategy
   NDP                National Development Plan (2007-20 12)
   OECD               Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
   PEMEX              PetrdleosMe'xicanos
   PER                Public Expenditure Review
   PoA                CDM Program of Activities
   PPm                Parts per million
   PROCAMPO           Direct Support to Agriculture (Programa deApoyos Directos a1Campo)
   PROGAN             Program for Support for Cattle Production (Programa de Estimulos a la
                      Productividad Ganadera)
   PSBR               Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
   REDD               ReducingEmissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation
    SAGARPA           MinisterofAgriculture, Livestock Production, RuralDevelopment, Fisheries
                      and Food (SecretariadeAgricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pescay
                      Alimentacidn)
    SCCP              Special Climate Change Program (ProgramaEspecial de Cambio Climdtico)
    SCT               Ministeryof Communicationand Transport (Secretariade Comunicacidny
                      Transportes)
    SE                MinistryofEconomy(Secretariade Economia)
    SEDESOL           Ministryof Social Development (SecretariadeDesarrollo Social)
    SEMARNAT          MinistryofEnvironmentandNatural Resources(SecretariadeMedio
                      Ambientey Recursos Naturales)
    SENER             MinistryofEnergy(SecretariadeEnergia)
    SHCP              MinistryofFinanceandPublic Credit (SecretariadeHacienday Cre'dito
                      Ptiblico)
    SINAP             NationalProtected Areas System (SistemaNacional deAreas Naturales
                      Protegidas)
    SRE               MinistryofForeignAffairs (SecretariadeRelacionesExteriores)
    UNAM              National University of Mexico (UniversidadNacional de Me'xico)
    UNDP              UnitedNations Development Programme
    UNFCCC            UnitedNations Framework Convention on Climate Change



                                     Vice President: PamelaCox
                                 Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg
                                    Sector Director: Laura Tuck
                                   Sector Manager: Laura Tlaiye
                                Task Team Leader: Benoit Bosquet




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                  MEXICO
                             CLIMATE CHANGEDEVELOPMENT                                           POLICYLOAN

                                                              CONTENTS


 LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                                                                                                                                               iii
 I        INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                                1
 I1
  ..                       ..................................................................................................................................
                                              ..............................................................................................................

          COUNTRY CONTEXT          .........................................................................................................................          4
                  A RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINMEXICO
                    .                                                                                            .................................................    4
                  B. MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY                                                                    ...............................  5
 I11
   .      THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM                           .................................................................................................        8
                  A. MEXICOAND CLIMATE CHANGE                                  ................................................................................       8
                  B. GOVERNMENT RESPONSE                         ...........................................................................................          10
 IV.      BANKSUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY                                                     ........................................................       19
                  A. LINKTO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIPSTRATEGY......................................................                                                         19
                  B. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHERDONORS.....................................                                                                   19
                  C. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS.....................................................                                                       19
                  D LESSONSLEARNED.......................................................................................................                            20
                  E.. ANALYTICAL         UNDERPINNINGS                      .................................................................................        22
 V .      THE PROPOSEDCLIMATE CHANGEDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN                                                                           .............................   23
                  A. OPERATIONDESCRIPTION..........................................................................................                                  23
                  B POLICY AREAS
                    .                       ...............................................................................................................          25
 VI.      OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                          .................................................................................................         27
                  A POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS
                    .                                                          ..............................................................................        27
                  B IMPLEMENTATION. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                                                                        27
                  C FIDUCIARY ASPECTS....................................................................................................
                    ..                                                                                                   ........................................
                                                                                                                                                                     29
                  D. DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING...............................................................................                                         29
                  E ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                                                                                                                            30
                  F RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION
                   ..                                                 .......................................................................................
                                                                         ....................................................................................        30

                                                                  ANNEXES

 ANNEX 1:LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY                                      ...................................................................................
 ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENTPOLICY/OVERALLGOVERNMENTDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM 50                                                                                                 ....32
 ANNEX 3: OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX                            ................................................................................................         66
 ANNEX 4: FUNDRELATIONSNOTE                     ...........................................................................................................          67
 ANNEX 5: ESTIMATEDEMISSIONREDUCTIONPOTENTIAL                                                     ............................................................       71
 ANNEX 6: MONITORING INDICATORSAND OUTCOMES                                                ...................................................................       73
 ANNEX 7: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                    ..........................................................................................................          76
 ANNEX 8: MAP (IBRD 33447)       .........................................................................................................................           79




The Climate Change Development Policy Loan was prepared by an IBRD team consisting of Benoit Bosquet (Task
Team Leader). Angela Armstrong. Dinesh Aryal. Juan Carlos Belausteguigoitia. Rita Cestti. Alejandro Deeb. Seraphine
Marie Haeussling. Ricardo Hernandez. Adriana Moreira. and Walter Vergara (LCSEN); Gustavo Saltiel(LCSSD); Todd
Crawford (LCSDE); Jozef Draaisma (LCSPE); Todd Johnson (LCSEG); Roberto Aiello (ENVCF); William Reuben
(LCSSO); Juan Carlos Alvarez (LEGLA); Victor Ordonez (LCSFM); and Habiba Gitay (WBISD)                                                             . This        operation was
undertaken under the general guidance of Axel van Trotsenburg (Country Director. LCClC). Laura Tuck (Sector
Director. LCSSD). and Laura Tlaiye (Sector Manager. LCSEN)                            . Peer     reviewers were Jocelyne Albert (LCSEN). and
EduardoDopazo(ENVCF)     .


                         LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY


                                          MEXICO
                   CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



3orrower              THE UNITEDM E X I C A N STATES

Ymplementing Agency   Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT)

4mount                US$501.25 million

rerms                 Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL), US dollar denominated, payable in 10
                      years, including 10years grace period with bullet repayments, at a
                      variable interest rate.

rranching             Single tranche

Description           The Climate Change Development Policy Loan (DPL) supports the
                      government o f Mexico's efforts to mainstream climate change
                      considerations into public policy. The operation consists o f policy
                      reforms in three areas: (i)improved analytical basis for policy
                      responses    through    the  submission    o f  a   Third National
                      Communication to the UN Framework Convention on Climate
                      Change; (ii)the approval o f the National Climate Change Strategy
                      by the government's Intersecretarial Commission on Climate
                      Change and its announcement by the President; and (iii)the
                      integrationo f climate change considerations in sector programs.

Benefits              In the context o f the long-term development challenges posed by
                      climate change, the DPL's contributions are:
                      0   Reinforcement o f a results framework for voluntary emission
                          reductions and focus on vulnerability reduction through
                          adaptation action plans.
                      0   Improved institutional capacity, including coordination and
                          knowledge base, to undertake key actions.

Risks                     Institutional risks: Significant multisectoral and federal-state
                          collaboration i s needed to develop policy responses to climate
                          change.    Difficulties in implementing the National Climate
                          Change Strategy could arise if coordination weakens. Uneven
                          capacity among the sectoral agencies at federal, regional and
                          municipal levels could hinder their engagement. Due to the
                          disproportionate scale of climate change impacts in territories
                          and/or sectors, the response o f these agencies i s essential, but
                          given uneven capacities responses may be slower than required.
                          On the budget side, institutional inertia and administrative
                          resistance may affect the capacity o f the G o M to redesign
                          programs such that sectoral agencies fail to mainstream climate
                          change intheir core programs.

                                              ...
                                              111

Operation IDNumber  P110849




                               iv

          INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT
           FORA PROPOSEDCLIMATE CHANGEDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN
                                TO THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES


                                       I. INTRODUCTION

1.      The government o f Mexico (GoM) has requested a Climate Change Development Policy Loan
(DPL) in the amount o f US$501.25 million to be presented to the Board for its approval jointly with a
new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The request underlines the GoM's interest in a continued,
strong engagement with the Bank, under a new business model deemed appropriate for a leading
emerging market economy such as Mexico. The DPL will support the government's priorities within its
climate change agenda. The development objective o f the operation i s to assist the G o M in integrating
climate change considerations in public policy.

2.      Mexico will be disproportionately affected by climate change, in particular hurricanes, changes
in temperature and precipitation, and increased frequency and severity o f floods and droughts. The
country's large and relatively exposed coastline along the Gulf o f Mexico and the Yucatan Peninsula are
a frequent landfall point for hurricanes. Overall climate change will further reduce the country's already
scarce water resources. Mexico is the twelfth largest emitter o f greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the world
and second largest inLatin America.

3.      Mexico has a significant record o f engagement in the climate change arena. Soon after taking
office, President Calder6n made climate change a priority focus o f his administration. The country has
made notable achievements inthe areas described below.

4.      Strategy. Mexico adopted a National Climate Change Strategy (NCCS) in 2007. The NCCS
builds on all the achievements in domestic climate policy to date and formalizes Mexico's commitment
to mitigate and adapt to climate change. The NCCS commitments are being operationalized through a
Special Climate Change Program (SCCP), to be completed in 2008, which will identify priority actions
and the required sources o f financing. At the sub-national level, climate change strategies have already
been developed for Mexico City, and the states o f Veracruz and Nuevo Le6n. In addition, a number o f
localizedvulnerability assessments have been completed, including assessments covering the agriculture,
water, and forest sectors in the state o f Tlaxcala; the tourism sector in Quintana Roo; the agriculture
sector in Morelos; coastal wetland ecosystems along the Gulf Coast; and water supply for the city of
Hermosillo.

5.      International cooperation. Mexico actively participates in the international framework for
addressing climate change and has prioritized its official reporting o f greenhouse gas emissions by sector,
plans for mitigating these emissions, and assessments o f vulnerabilities to climatic impacts. Mexico is the
only developing country to have submitted three "National Communications" to the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). These reports have progressively refined the
analytical basis for policy response on climate change by improving estimates and assessments o f
response options. Work on a Fourth National Communication is planned to begin in 2008. These
communications are important because they lay out the actions the government has already taken and its
commitment to take future actions within an official international framework.

6.      Institutionalizing the climate change agenda. In 2005 the G o M established the Intersecretarial
Commission on Climate Change (CICC), responsible for mainstreaming climate change in development
policy. It is comprised o f seven line ministries, as well as the Ministry o f Finance. In support o f the

                                                     1

policy making process, institutional and scientific capabilities have been strengthened within government
agencies and universities to foster national capacity to model climate trends and simulate impacts. Major
studies to assess the physical and economic costs o f climate change in Mexico and identify long-term
mitigation and adaptation opportunities are also underway.

7.       Policy incentives. The G o M has implemented policy incentives for expanding reforestation, in
particular by doubling the budget for the national forest sector development program, Prokrbol, from
2006 to 2007, which enabled the reforestation o f 642,000 hectares in 2007 - an amount that i s almost
double the forest area lost each year. The 2008 budget law includes fiscal measures that are climate-
friendly, such as incentives for Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects and tax exemptions for
hybridcars.

8.       Progress benchmarks.The carbon intensity o f the Mexican economy has been reduced by about
5 percent since 1993. Over 100 C D M projects have been launched to reduce GHG emissions, including
wind energy, urbantransport, and waste management. About 80 private companies now reporttheir GHG
inventories. Moreover, the consumption o f chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) -which are both ozone-depleting
substances and potent GHGs -was lowered by 98.6 percent between 1998 and 2007.

9.       In comparison with other developing as well as industrialized countries, these actions are
significant and demonstrate Mexico's profile as a global player in the climate change arena. While
Mexico's absolute GHG emissions have grown as the economy develops, the carbon intensity o f the
Mexican economy has dropped.

10.      The design o f the proposed Climate Change DPL benefits from the World Bank's experience
gained through its long-standing and comprehensive environmental program in Mexico. Early efforts
have tackled air pollution and sustainable use o f natural resources, including protection o f Mexico's
unique ecosystems. In recent years, two completed DPLs, and a third one under preparation, have aimed
at mainstreaming environmental considerations in key development sectors (energy, water, forestry, and
tourism) and improving the effectiveness and efficiency o f local environmental management processes in
Mexico.'

11.      Furthermore, the Bank's environmental assistance program inMexico has significantly increased
support for global issues, with 26 active tasks on climate change as an example. Past and current
activities ranging from sector-specific analysis o f emission trends and abatement options, and pilot
projects to promote energy efficient and renewable energy solutions, to capacity buildingprograms, have
provided the analytical and institutional underpinnings for this DPL. The Bank's value added rests in its
convening power, the provision o f global expertise in this highly specialized field, and resource
mobilization. Mexico i s requesting further assistance from the Bank in the climate change area, in
particular through the provision o f technical advice and access to new financing mechanisms.

12.      The proposed climate change D P L i s conceived as a single operation that will highlightMexico's
achievements in the climate change area and support its planned policy program. The prior actions o f the
DPL are streamlined and focus on the following three recent actions:

         (i)   Submission o f the ThirdNational Communication to the UNFCCC in 2006;




'  First Programmatic Environment Structural Adjustment Loan (P074539, US$202.02 million) and Second
Programmatic Environment Development Policy Loan (P079748, US$200.5 million).

                                                      2

        (ii)   Approval in May 2007 o f the National Climate Change Strategy by the Intersecretarial
               Commission on Climate Change, reinforcing the institutional and strategic framework in
               place; and

        (iii)Initiationofsectoralprogramsforenergy, andenvironmentandnaturalresources(forestry
               in particular), including policy incentives to reduce the carbon intensity of the Mexican
               economy.

13.     The operation will also provide a strategic framework for an expanded dialogue between the
G o M and the Bank on climate change. The government o f Mexico and the Bank have agreed to review
semiannual progress as part o fthis expanded dialogue.

14.     The proposed operation is plannedto be the first in a series o f DPLs that make up a streamlined
lending approach, and that will be accompanied by an expanded set o f analytical and advisory services.
As outlined inthe Mexico 2008-2013 CPS, to be presented to the Board at the same time as the proposed
loan, the G o M has requested that the Bank adopt a new business model by changing its lending and
advisory services program over the next few years to a series o f on-demand analytical and advisory
services. This streamlined approach would be anchored on a large multi-sector DPL, following the
operational guidelines for such loans, namely a focus on the GoM's own reform program contained inthe
National Development Plan with a set o f prior actions. Annual base lending to the federal government is
planned to be $800 million over the next three years. The proposed DPL supports the transition towards
the newly defined Bank support program and provides space for on-going FY08 pipeline operations. The
CPS also foresees a series o f smaller, environmentally-focused loans and grants.

15.     This DPL is central to the new CPS with respect to its theme (climate change) and its
streamlined-focus, The DPL is also fully in line with Mexico's 2007-2012 National DevelopmentPlan, in
particular its environmental sustainability pillar.




                                                     3

                                       11.    COUNTRY CONTEXT

A. RECENTECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTSINMEXICO
16.      Over the past four years (2004-2007), the Mexican economy has experienced a period of
balanced and broad-basedexpansion of economic activity at an average annual rate of gross domestic
product (GDP) growthof 3.8 percent.A vigorous globaleconomic expansioncontributedto the enhanced
growthperformance as exports increasedat a double-digitannual averagerate of growth.Enhancedprice
stability is contributingto a healthy growth of domestic demand as a result of an improved purchasing
power of wages and salaries and an expansionof domestic creditand consumer lending.The evolutionof
the mainmacroeconomic indicatorsover the past five years confirmsa pictureof balancedgrowthwith a
significantreductionofvulnerabilitiesto external shocks(Table 1).

17.      Mexico is making renewed progress on its legislative reform agenda addressing some long-
standing as well as newlyemergingstructuralchallenges in enhancingeconomic growthandreducingthe
still highlevels ofpoverty.Inits first year, the current administrationledby President Calderdnhasmade
progress in proposing, negotiating, and obtaining legislative approval of laws and amendments to the
Constitutionaimed at strengtheningthe performance of the public sector. These includereforms to the
federal governmentworkers' pension scheme, the tax policy and administration,intergovernmental fiscal
relations, and public expenditure policy and management, which were approved last year and are
currently under implementation.

18.      Fiscal policy has been successfully focused on a reduction of the public sector deficit and a
decline in the public sector debt-to-GDP ratio. Higher-than-expected oil and tax revenue allowed the
public sector to increase current and capital expenditures and, at the same time, post a modest fiscal
surplus over the past two years. Public expenditure increased by almost 2 percentage points of GDP,
providing an additional impulse to domestic demand in this period. A balanced budget requirement is
part of a federal budget and fiscal responsibility law adopted in 2006. In terms of the broader Public
Sector BorrowingRequirements(PSBR) that includeoff-budgetspending, the Mexicanpublic sector also
has managedto restrain its debt financingrequirementsto about 1-2percent of GDP.

                              Table 1:Mexico SelectedEconomicIndicators
                                               -




     Source: Bank staff calculation basedon SHCP, Bunco de Mbxico and INEGI

19.       The Mexicanpublic sector remains heavilydependent on oil revenuewhich in 2007 made up 35
percent of total public sector revenue, whereas non-oiltax revenue remained at a modest 10 percent of
GDP. Oil productionhas dropped from a high of about 3.4 million barrels per day in 2004 to about 3.1
million barrelsper day in2007. Current provenreserves of oil are on the order of 10years of production,



                                                      4

however Mexico i s the only major oil producer to have suffered a dramatic decline (halving) o f known
reserves inrecent decades2

20.       The administration o f President Calderh recognized the challenge posed by a reduction in the
volume o f production o f oil and emerging public expenditure pressures on Mexico's public finances in
the National Development Plan and proposed, negotiated and obtained legislative approval for a
structural reform to the federal government workers' pension scheme and a broad fiscal reform package.
The federal civil servant's pension reform, approved in April 2007, is aimed at rebalancing the actuarial
fairness o f the pension scheme and opens the way for greater labor mobility between the public and
private sector. The fiscal reform, approved in September 2007, includes the introduction of a new
minimum business tax levied on the firm's value added and intended to tax those companies that had
benefited in the past from special tax regimes or had aggressively exploited the many loopholes o f the
existing income tax. The fiscal reform i s projectedto increase tax revenue by 1.1percent o f GDP in 2008
to 2.1 percent in 2012, an increase that will compensate for the expected decline in oil revenue over the
period and will allow for an increase o f public spending in infrastructure.

B. MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY
21.       Mexico fully meets the policy requirement o f OP 8.60 for a sound macroeconomic framework.
Mexico has maintained a solid macroeconomic framework which has moderated output volatility and
strengthened economic growth. A consistent set o f macroeconomic policies, including monetary policy
within an inflation targeting framework, a flexible exchange rate, a balanced budget fiscal policy and
public debt management that favors the development o f domestic capital markets, have led to a
substantial improvement o f the fundamentals o f the Mexican economy.

22.       International capital markets, credit rating agencies and international institutions all recognize
the progress achieved in macroeconomic stability and the strengthening o f the fundamentals o f the
Mexican economy. During the more recent turmoil on international financial markets and despite the
global re-pricing o f risk affecting emerging market economies' sovereign risk spreads, Mexico was able
to issue a 32-year Global Bond in January 2008 in an amount o f US$1.5 billion at a spread over
comparable US Treasury o f 170 basis points. The G o M maintains an investment grade rating by all three
major credit rating agencies, two o f which improved their rating last a ~ t u m n .The most recent IMF
                                                                                         ~
Article IV consultation and Board discussion "commended the improvements in macroeconomic and
financial policies that have helped Mexico to reduce significantly external and internal vulnerabilities
over the years.yy4

23.       Fiscal policies, successful in reducing the public debt-to-GDP ratio, are complemented by a debt
management strategy that favors domestic currency financing o f public debt. The G o M now regularly
issues fixed-rate peso bonds up to 30 years of maturity and the average maturity o f domestic debt
increased to 5.5 years by the end o f 2007. The government's debt management strategy for 20085
establishes two main lines o f action: (i)   to continue to finance the federal government's deficit primarily
by longer term, domestic currency debt, and (ii)to strengthen the cost and maturity profile o f external
debt and reduce external market debt by US$500 million. Despite a significant reduction in external debt

* Part o fthis drop was due to a change inthe methodology.

  Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor's increased their sovereign rating to BBB+ (two notches above investment
grade rating) last September and October, respectively. In addition to strong macroeconomic policies, both rating
agencies refer to the adoption of reform to the civil servants' pension scheme and the fiscal reform package as
critical elements intheir decisionto increasetheir credit rating.
4 See IMFCountry Report 07/379 at httv://www.imf.orglexternal/vubs/~scr/2007/cr07379.~df
  See SHCP Annual FinancingPlan 2008 at
httv://www.avartados.hacienda.aob.mxlucp/es~/documentos/estrateai~va~OO8.vdf

                                                           5

over the past few years, the strategy gives importance to maintaining a presence in international capital
markets and to assuring an efficient dollar yield-curve as a reference for public and private sector
emissions. External finance provided by multilateral development banks i s explicitly excluded from the
external debt reduction target. In addition to adequate financial terms and conditions, the strategy
expresses the interest o f the G o M in maintaining an active relationship with multilateral development
banks so as to take advantage o f the technical assistance and international experience inthe management
o f programs and projects that these organizations can contribute.

24.      The recent international financial market turmoil is leading to tighter credit conditions and a
global re-pricing o f risk. In line with other major emerging markets, spreads on Mexican sovereign debt,
as measured by the Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus (EMBI+), are up to about 180 basis points
(February 2008) from a low o f about 80 basis points reached in May-June last year. Even though spreads
are up, they remain low from a historical perspective and do not prevent Mexico from having ample
access to international capital markets (as evidenced by the global bond issue last January 2008). Under
current market conditions, Bank loans are some 100 basis points less expensive to Mexico than
alternative, external market financing options.

25.      The global slowdown o f economic activity i s weakening short-term economic growth in Mexico.
A sharper-than-expected slowing o f economic activity inthe United States is likely to hit Mexico harder
than other countries and is an important risk to the Mexican economy. With the increased economic
integration following North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Mexican industrial production
has become highly correlated with industrial production in the United States.6The G o M has reduced its
growth forecast to 2.8 percent in 2008. Depending on the severity o f the deceleration o f the U S economy,
growth could be even lower. On the other hand, several factors could reduce the impact o f a slowdown in
the United States, relative to historical experience: (a) the continued consolidation o f public finances and
the reduction in external indebtedness which imply the best access to foreign finance - relative to other
emerging markets-in       recent decades; (b) the recovery o f bank lending to the private sector in recent
years; (c) an increasing diversification o f export destinations (although the United States remains the
main destination at about 82 percent), and (d) the implementation o f an ambitious infrastructure program
that foresees an increase by 60 percent inpublic and private investment in 2008.

26.      The government's development plan aims at enhancing structural economic growth and aspires
to reach an annual economic growth rate o f 5 percent towards the end o f the administration in 2012.
Economic growth has been modest relative to the country's potential and has been unable to reduce the
income gap versus developed market economies significantly over the past decade. More accelerated
long-run growth is needed and will require improved competitiveness through lowering barriers to
business investment, improved infrastructure, expanded financial sector and faster human capital
accumulation. Bank staff projections include a return to trend growth at about 3.5-4.0 percent annually
by 2009-2011 after a modest slowdown of economic activity in 2008. This is expected to take place
within an overall framework o f enhanced price stability and to lead to a moderate increase in the
country's current account deficit, predominantly financed by non-debt creating capital flows. The public
sector balance will remain within the limitations imposed by the fiscal responsibility law, though the
reduction o f the public debt-to-GDP ratio may stagnate as a result o f public sector worker's pension
reform.




  The simple correlation coefficient between US. and Mexican industrial production amounts to 0.95 for recent
years, comparedto 0.69 in the early 1990s. IMF staff has estimated a "rule of thumb" elasticity of U S industrial
production shocks on Mexican quarterly GDP: a one percentshock inUS industrial production creates a 0.9 percent
shock on Mexican GDP. See IMF Mexico: Selected Issues, December 2007. Swiston and Bayoumi estimate an
even larger relationship ("SpilloversAcross NAFTA," IMF Working Paper W/08/3).

                                                       6

Source: Bank staffestimates




                               7

                                  111.     THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM


A. MEXICO AND CLIMATE CHANGE

27.      Mexico 's contribution to GHG emissions. Mexico's climate change strategy aims at reducing
emissions o f greenhouse gases (GHGs) per unit o f GDP and reducing the impacts o f climate change by
timely adaptive response. According to Mexico's Third National Communication to the UNFCCC,
Mexico emitted 643 million tons o f carbon dioxide equivalent (Mt C02e) in 2002 o f which almost 400
Mt CO2e result from combustion of fossil fuels. Mexico ranks twelfth inthe world based on total GHG
emissions and is the second largest emitter in Latin America after Brazil. As shown inFigure 1, Mexico
accounts for 1.4 percent o f global COz emissions from fossil fuels, excluding other GHGs and land-use
change and forestry. As in other emerging economies, Mexico's GHG emissions have been growing
steadily over the past 25 years (Figure 2).'

28.      The sources o f Mexico's GHG emissions are energy generation (24 percent), transport (18
percent), forests and land-use change (14 percent), waste management (10 percent), manufacturing and
construction (8 percent), industrial processes (8 percent), agriculture (7 percent), fugitive emissions (6
percent), and other uses (5%),       as illustrated inFigure 3. The oil and gas sector is responsible for about 12
percent o f GHG emissions, about halfo fwhich i s classified under energy generation.

29.      Energy intensity (energy use per unit o f GDP) inMexico has been declining over time. The G o M
is seeking to strengthen this trend by implementing a comprehensive energy efficiency program and
promoting the use o f natural gas. Mexico's carbon intensity o f production has declined over the 1990-
2005 period, and compares favorably with respect to other countries, as shown in Figure 4. In addition,
Mexico's intensity has been much lower than that o f the United States, India, Indonesia, and China. The
carbon intensities o f Colombia and Brazil are lower than Mexico's due to a higher participation of
hydropower in the energy matrix o f these countries. When available estimates o f emissions from land-use
change (mostly deforestation) are included Mexico's position improves with respect to these countries.

30.      Mexico's total GHG emissions are equivalent to about 6 t CO2e per capita or about 4 t CO2e per
capita if one considers only the C02 emissions from fossil fuel combustion. Figure 5 shows Mexico's
position in C02 emissions per capita with respect to other countries.

31.      Mexico's vulnerability to climate change. Based on global modeling simulations, Mexico will be
disproportionately affected by climate change. In particular, hurricanes and changes in temperature and
precipitation (with more rain in some regions, and less rain in other areas) are expected to cause more
frequent and severe floods and droughts. The country's large and relatively exposed coastline along the
Gulf o f Mexico and Yucatan Peninsula is a frequent landfall point for hurricanes. The cost o f hurricanes
and tropical storms has steadily increased in Mexico. Recent data indicate a 1,000 percent increase in
damages compared to the decade o f the 1950s. Projected sea level rise will lead to further impacts on the
Gulf Coast.'



7 The difference between total GHG emissions and C 0 2emissions from the consumption and flaring o f fossil fuels is
due to other GHG than C02, and emissions fiom land-use changes. Data series for the latter (land-use changes) are
 less complete and cannot be usedacross countries.
8  Hurricane intensity has been increasing in the Caribbean basin with a 40 percent increase in category 4 and 5
hurricanes generated and reaching landfall over the past five years compared to a comparable period staring in 1970
 in the North Atlantic. A recent analysis commissioned by the Bank indicates that a fkrther increase should be
 expected as a result o f increase sea surface temperatures inthe Caribbean.

                                                             8

Figure 1: Mexico's Share of Global Cot Emissions in 2005           Figure 2: Mexico's COzEmissions from Fossil Fuels
(inpercentof world emissions, excludingland-usechange and                  (excludingother GHG and land-usechange)
                           forestry)




         0         s          'DPers*"t           I D        15       *$BO  ,182   IP*  10%  1011 111    I W I    I I W  I$% $198   2000  2m2 loDI



  Source:EnergyInformation Administration,US Departmentof         Source:EnergyInformation Administration, US Departmentof

  Energy                                                          Energy


   Figure 3: Mexico's GHG Emissionsby Source, 2002                 Figure 4: Carbon Intensity across Selected Countries
                    Puginve  Other                                  (kg COzemissionsfrom fossil fuel combustionper $ of
                  Emissions   5%                                                           GDP at 2005 PPP)




                                                     anspon
                                                     18%
                                                                          emu                                                 I

                Waste                                                                                                         I
              Management    -.   -__-.
                                          *'                            Cobmlll.
                 10%                                                                                                         1I
                                Landuse Change
                                       14x                                      li        1                       1          118         0      1 2
                                                                                                   ha oIC0, par $efGOP lPPP2wbJ
  Source National Climate Change Strategy, Mexico
                                                                 Sources: C02emissionsfrom fossil fuel combustion: Energy
                                                                 InformationAdministration, US DepartmentofEnergy
                                                                 PPP GDP,preliminaryWorld Development Indicatorsfigures,
                                                                 World Bank

       Figure 5: Per Capita COzEmissionsin 2005                       Figure 6: EmissionReductionPotentialby Sector
          (excludingland-usechange and forestry)                                                    by 2012




                                                                  OR &Gas Sector




                                                                                                                            ower Generation

                                                                                                                                 22%


                                                                 Source:NationalClimate ChangeStrategy, Mexico




                                                                9

32.      Recent studies on the vulnerability of hydrologic regions in Mexico suggest that potential
changes in air temperature and precipitation may have a dramatic impact on water availability. Data from
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessments on projected forced hydro-climatic
changes indicate that Mexico may experience significant decreases in run-offs (the difference between
precipitation and evapo-transpiration) on the order of 10 to 20 percent nationally and up to 40 percent
along the Gulf Coast wetlands as a result of global climate change. These climate change impacts will
further aggravate the current pressures on already stressed water resources. Improved water resource
management constitutes a priority for adaptation. Reduced runoffs will also negatively affect the integrity
of major ecosystems, including the system of wetlands in the Gulf of Mexico as well as the remaining
primary forests inthe north of the country.

33.      InMexico, almost 75 percent ofprecipitationevapo-transpires and at most five percent recharges
aquifers, which provide the main source of water in the center and northern parts of the country where
population and GDP are concentrated. Although national population trend scenarios suggest falling rates
of growth and stabilization by 2025, a greater increase in the urban population will generate additional
pressure on already critically low water resources. In this context, an increase in temperature will cause
evapo-transpiration to increase and soil humidity to diminish, thus demanding more water extraction to
keep crops irrigated, which inturnwill reducewater availability.


B. GOVERNMENTRESPONSE

NationalClimateChange Strategy
34.      On May 25,2007, President Calder6n announcedthe National Climate Change Strategy (NCCS),
thereby committing the country to place climate change at the heart of the country's national
development policyOgThe NCCS sets the long-term climate change agenda, together with medium to
long-term goals for adaptation and mitigation.

35.      Inthe Strategy, the country commits itselfto reducingGHG emissions on a voluntary basis (as a
non-Annex Icountry, Mexico has no formal obligation to reduce its emissions by 2012). The Strategy
recognizes the possibility for the country to adopt voluntary commitments, and to have those monitored
by the international community (`pledge and review'). However, no penalty will be incurred for non-
compliance, and the pledge will not compromise Mexico's basic right to economic development.

36.      The NCCS identifies measures and associated emission reduction potential that enables Mexico
to reduce the carbon intensity of development (Annex 5).      In addition, the NCCS identifies areas to
reduce vulnerability to climate change and analyzes the institutional and economic challenges to an
effective adaptation policy.

37.      On mitigation, the NCCS distinguishes between production and consumption of energy, and
vegetation and land use as the main categories of mitigation options. In the area of production and
consumption of energy, the measures identified in the Strategy with the largest emission reduction
potential are the introduction of energy efficiency standards and programs, the conversion of power
plants from oil to natural gas and efficiency improvements, and the more than doubling of the power
generation from renewable energy sources.




 See www.semaniat.gob.mx/Documents/Estrategias libro completo compress2.pdf for the completeStrategy in
Spanish. An executive summary inEnglishcanbe found at
httr,://www,semamat.gob.mx/queessemarnat/politicaambiental/cambioclimaticoiDocuments/enaclsintesis/sintesiseie
cutiva/Executive%2OSumrna~.pdf,

                                                    10

38.      With respect to land use, land-use change and forestry, the key measures include significant
increases in reforestation, soil restoration, and commercial plantations. In addition, renewable energy
sources in rural areas and changes in crop production will contribute to reducing emissions from rural
and agricultural sources.

39.      The emission reduction potential associated with each measure o f the NCSS is an estimate o f the
maximum achievable levels. As shown in Figure 6 (page 9), power generation and distribution, energy
efficiency and renewable sources, and the industrial sector have the greatest potential to reduce
emissions.

40.      Within the opportunities and constraints o f each sector and the economy at large, Mexico plans
to set voluntary emission reduction targets and reflect them in the Special Program on Climate Change
(see below). For example, the energy sector has set as a target to reduce annual electricity-related GHG
emissions by 14 Mt COze between 2006 and 2012.

41.      As far as adaptation is concerned, the Strategy provides for the reinforcement o f national
capacity to manage weather-related risks and to improve land use planning as a preventive measure. The
design and implementation o f a national Climate Modeling Program, mainstreaming adaptation in
regional, state and municipal development plans, and the expanded use o f insurance to reduce
vulnerability, are also envisaged. Box 1 lists these adaptation priorities.

42.      The NCCS resulted from a two-year preparation process. During this time, the development o f
the NCCS was facilitated by the preparation o f technical and scientific supporting documents, including
two studies by the CentroMario Molina, consensus-building among participants that included nine CICC
meetings, as well as a two-week public consultation. This public consultation concluded with the
following recommendations: (i)recognize that climate change represents a national security issue, and
that the costs o f inaction should be estimated; (ii)formulate short, medium, and long-term targets for
mitigation and adaptation; (iii)adapt mitigation and adaptation policies to national development
priorities; (iv) undertake actions that contribute to adjustments in the legal, political and cultural to foster
adaptation and mitigation; and (v) increase the visibility o f the private sector's efforts to monitor and
reduce GHG emissions. These recommendations were to a large extent taken into account inthe NCCS.*O

43.      The strengths o f the NCCS include its: (i)    comprehensiveness, as it covers all sectors and all the
main aspects o f a climate change policy; (ii)concreteness, as it proposes concrete adaptation and
mitigation measures; (iii)  analytical basis, as it relies on internationally available scientific findings about
climate change, technologically feasible solutions, and builds on the institutional improvements,
analytical work and investments already underway in Mexico; (iv) multisectoral nature, as it resulted
from an inter-agency process; and (v) global relevance, as it synthesizes Mexico's position in the
international climate negotiations.

44.      The framework o f the NCCS will now be enhanced by: (i)setting priorities among the proposed
mitigation and adaptation measures; (ii)defining the sequencing o f short-term and long-term actions; (iii)
assessing the feasibility o f various measures within the seven-year timeframe o f the strategy; and (iv)
expanding consultation interms o fthe extent o f public review and dialogue.




I OTwo-hundred-twenty-seven (227) people fkom private f m s , civil society, and the public sector took part in the
consultation. The consultation ended with a hll-day workshop that consisted of three roundtables(on energy, land
use and adaptation). More information on the process leadingto the National Climate Change Strategy i s available at
http://www,semarnat.gob.mx/queessemarnat/politica ambiental/cambiocIimatico/Pages/estrategia.aspx

                                                         11

45.     Mexico is developing a Special Climate Change Program (Programa Especial de Cdmbio
Climdtico - SCCP), which is expected to be adopted in 2008. As all government programs, the SCCP is
considered part of the 2007-2012 National Development Plan (see Annex 2). The SCCP defines how to
operationalize the NCCS, in particular by identifying priorities and financing sources, both domestic and
international. It is called a Special Program as it cuts across all economic sectors and therefore, requires
intersectoral cooperation. It will be informed by the analysis of the costs of climate change coordinated
by UNAM and Centro Mario Molina at the request of the GoM and by the Bank-financed low-carbon
country case study (MEDEC).

                              Box 1: Areas for Adaptationto ClimateChange
       1. Hydrometeorologicalhazardriskmanagementandwater resourcesmanagement
                     Improvedwater resourcesmanagementprogramswith emphasis onpreserving
                     environmentalservices;
                0    Strengtheningclimate datacollection, processing, use, anddissemination;
                0    Recognitionof ancestralpracticesand lessons learnedby communities affectedby climate
                     variability.
       2. Biodiversityandenvironmentalservices
                0    Promotionofbiodiversityconservation insituthroughthe program ofpaymentsfor
                     environmentalservices.
       3.   Agriculture, husbandrycattleraising
                0    Climate informationmonitoringprogramfor the agriculturesector;
                     Climatetools for farmers andranchers;
                     Coordinationwith biodiversityprograms andstrengtheningofepidemiologicalsurveillance
                     andcontrolprograms.
       4. Coastalzone management
                0    Long-termcostal zone developmentplanningincorporatingsea levelrise projectionsand
                     biodiversityandtourismconsiderations;
                0    Contingencyplansfor urbanareas incostalzones.
       5.   Humansettlements
                0    Improvementofvulnerabilityassessments; developmentofrisk maps and enhancementof
                     riskmanagementcapabilities;
                     Articulation ofterritorial planningamongdifferentsectors(urban, watershed, state,
                     regional).
       6. Energygenerationandusage
                0    Energysector vulnerabilityassessmentsto climate variability;
                0    Assessment ofthe expectedimpactsof climate change inenergyconsumption;
                     Introductionofeco-fiiendlyhousingstandards.
       7. Healthandclimatechange
                     Preparationofhealthvulnerabilityassessmentsincorporatingclimate change;
                0    Strengtheningofhealthsurveillance, preventive andclinic responsecapabilitiesin
                     vulnerable areas.



InternationalCooperation
46.      Mexico was active in the negotiations leading to the 1992 Rio Conference on Sustainable
Development and the adoption of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC). Mexico ratified the UNFCCC in 1993 and the Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC in 2000.
Mexico is a `nowAnnex Icountry' to the UNFCCC, which means that it is not mandated to "adopt
national policies and take corresponding measures on the mitigation of climate change, by limiting its
anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and protecting and enhancing its greenhouse gas sinks and
reservoirs." Mexico is also not included in Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol, thus it i s not requiredto have
a "quantified GHG emission limitation or reductioncommitment."



                                                        12

47.     Although Mexico is not mandated to limit or reduce its GHG emissions under the Kyoto
Protocol, the country has firmly adopted the UNFCCC principle o f "common but differentiated
responsibilities," which calls for all countries to participate in an effective and appropriate international
response to climate change in light of their historical contributions to the man-made causes of climate
change and according to their respective capabilities and social and economic conditions. The country
has pledged to adopt voluntary commitments to reduce GHG emissions, in contrast with positions from
many other countries firmly rejectingthe adoption of such reductioncommitments.

48.     Mexico has emerged as a global leader in the climate change arena. Mexico's leadership has
been recognized in an independent assessment of countries' overall climate performance. This
assessment, called the Climate Performance Index, ranks countries based on (i)per capita GHG emission
trends in the energy, transport, residential and industrial sectors; (ii)absolute energy-related GHG
emissions; and (iii)climate policy. In this international assessment released at the end of 2007, Mexico
ranked fourth in the world behind Sweden, Germany and Iceland, and fourth among OECD countries."

49.     Mexico has submitted three National Communications to the UNFCCC. The First National
Communication (1997) established the National GHG Inventory and reported the first studies on
Mexico's vulnerability to climate change. The Second National Communication (200 1) updated the
National GHG Inventory for the period 1994-1998 and included future emission scenarios. The Third
National Communication (2006) updated the National GHG Inventory as of 2002 and included land-use
change emissions estimates for 1993-2002, and a number of mitigation and adaptation studies.12 Box 2
contains a description and comparison of Mexico's three National Communications. More recently the
GoM has announced its intention to deliver its Fourth National Communication by 2009 and a Fifth
National Communicationby 2012.

50.     In the Third National Communication, Mexico reported its latest GHG emissions levels and
trends, and described the measures taken to adapt to and mitigate climate change. Box 3 presents the
countries that have submittednational communications. It is worth noting that Mexico is the only non-
Annex Icountry to have submitted a Third National Communication. This Communication shows
Mexico's commitment to refining the analytical basis for its policy response to climate change, and to
communicating to domestic and internationalaudiences what Mexico is already doing to address climate
change challenges.




''Seehttp:Ilwww.~ermanwatch.org/klimdccpi2008.~df
12See http://unfccc.intlresourceldocslnatclmexnc3.pdf

                                                     13

                                   Box 2: Mexico's Three NationalCommunications

                                      Mexico NationalCommunications to the UNFCCC

I  First National Communicationto                Second National Communication to                  Third National Communicationto
           the UNFCCC(1997)                                the UNFCCC (2001)                                the UNFCCC (2006)
 The first NC focused on describingstudies      For the first time the country developed          This NC includes important advances on
 and actions adoptedby the GoM to               climate change scenarios, basedon                 the IPCC methodsto assess GHG
 address climate change issues at national      informationgeneratedthrough global                emissions, substantiallyimprovingthe
 level. Inparticular vulnerability              circulation models.Work also startedon            quality and reliability ofthe national
 assessments, mostly qualitative,were           the identification of specific mitigation         inventory ofGHG. Previousinventories
 made dividingthe country in three large        technologies applicableto the local               were updatedto incorporatethe improved
 regions. This document presentsthe             conditions. The document also                     methods. Inthis document, much
 results ofthe first national inventory of      incorporates, for the first time, an              improved climatemodeling is
 GHG emissions, utilizingfirst order            assessmentof local and global benefitsof          incorporatedincreasingthe resolution
 approximations.                                atmospheric air pollution control practices       (scale) availablefor conducting
                                                ina large metropolis.                             vulnerability analysis.

                                                Mexico also reportedfindings ofregional           With better information the country
                                                (with CentralAmerica and Cuba)                    conducts new vulnerability assessments
                                                vulnerability assessments, the definition o       for water, forestry and agriculture.It also
                                                country priorities and afirst analysis on         includes, for the first time, climatechange
                                                feasible adaptation options.                      vulnerability assessmentsfor health,
                                                                                                  energy, tourism and biodiversity.
                                                                                                  Mexico also reportedvulnerability
                                                                                                  assessments at regional and state level an(
                                                                                                  for selected sectors (water in Sonora,
                                                                                                  tourism in QuintanaRoo; coastal wetland
                                                                                                  ecosystems in the GulfofMexico, etc.).
                                                                                                  For the first time public participation was
                                                                                                  sought at all levelsand in all activities.

Memorandum items:

   Institutionalbasis: Froman initialtemporarymandateinstitutionshaveevolvedto an effectivearrangementfor coordinatingplanningand
   implementation

 I Scale resolution: Fromanalysisbasedongeneralglobalmapsto the useofglobalcirculation modelsat state andmunicipal,andlarge city scale.      I
                                                                                             ~~                     ~




   Analytical basis Fromqualitativeinformedjudgmentsto greater relianceon analyticaltools                                                    1

   NationalCommunications(NC) The UNFCCC requiresall Partiesto communicate information to the Conferenceofthe Parties The
   first and secondnationalcommunications are now mandatory,althoughcountnes may submitNC at their discretion NCs submit
   informationon (I) sustainable developmentand the integrationof climate change concern into mediumand longterm planning,             (ii)
   inventoriesof anthropogenic emissionsby sourcesand removalsby sinks of GHG, (iii)mitigationmeasurescontributing to addressing
   climate change, (iv) researchand systematic observation, (v) climate change impacts, adaptationmeasuresand responsestrategies, and,
   (vi) education, training and public awareness




                                                                       14

                  Box 3: Status of SubmittedNational Communicationsto UNFCCC



                        Initial
                        National          2nd National        3rd National       4th National
                        Communication     Communication       Communication      Communication



       Annex 1:
       G-8                     J                 J                   J                  J
       EU                      J                 J                   J                  J


       Non-Annex 1:
       "+5" Group
         Mexico                J                 J                   J
         Brazil                J
         China                 J
         India                 J
         SouthAfrica           J


       Other:
         Argentina             J                 J
         Korea                 J                 J
         Uruguay               J                 J

        126other non-
       annex 1
       countries               J




Source: UNFCCC, March2008.


5 1.     Finally, Mexico has had a very good track record of phasing out ozone-depleting substances, in
particular CFCs, which are also potent GHGs. Even though CFCs are regulated by the 1987 Montreal
Protocol, which mandates their phase-out over a certain period of time, and are not included inthe list of
six GHGs in the Kyoto Protocol, their phase-out does have a beneficial impact on the global climate.
Between 1998 and 2007, Mexico's consumption of CFCs declined by over 98.6 percent.13

InstitutionalizingClimate Change
52.      To carry out its commitment to the UNFCCC, and recognizing the multi-sectoral dimension of
the climate change challenge, Mexico established the Intersecretarial Commission on Climate Change
(Comisidn Intersecretarial de Cambio Climdtico - CICC) in April 2005. The CICC's key mandates
include: (i)formulating national climate change strategies and incorporating them in sectoral programs;
(ii)coordinatingtheimplementationofthesestrategies;(iii) asDesignatedNationalAuthorityon
                                                              acting
climate change; (iv) promoting national climate change research; and (v) promoting GHG emission




l3Primer Informe de Gobierno,Presidenciade la Repziblica,September 1,2007.

                                                   15

reduction project^.'^ The CICC contains several working groups, namely on mitigation, adaptation, and
the DesignatedNationalAuthority on Climate Change.

53.      Associated with the CICC i s a Consultative Council on Climate Change (Consejo Consultivode
Cdmbio Climdtico), which is composed of scientists and representatives of civil society and the private
sector, and provides advice to the CICC. The Consultative Council creates a link between the CICC, the
scientific community and civil ~0ciety.l~

54.      Scientific inputs to the CICC includethe following:

         Modelling climate scenarios and impacts: Mexico has made significant progress in simulating
         climate change and its impacts through projections based on empirical observations as well as
         numerical models combining general atmospheric circulation models and medium-scale models.
         The Third National Communication contains the latest predictions. The bulk of the capacity
         resides in the Centro Mario Molina, the National Institute of Ecology (Instituto Nacional de
         Ecologia - INE), the National Water Commission (Comisidn Nacional del Agua - CONAGUA)
         and universities, inparticular the Centro de Ciencias de la Atmdsfera o f the National University
         of Mexico (UNAM).

         Improved emissions inventories: Through three National Communications to the UNFCCC the
         comprehensiveness and technical quality of emission data, also referred to as national GHG
         inventories, has been improved (see more details below).

         Economic analysis: Mexico is also undertaking a major analysis of the economic impacts of
         climate change on Mexico, following the approach of the Stern Review released in 2006. This
         study expected to be completed in 2008, predicts aggregate physical and economic costs of
         climate change, including adaptation and mitigation. The study is coordinated by economists
         from UNAM and sponsored by the British Government and the Inter-American Development
         Bank.


Progress to Date
55.      Adaptation. The capacity developed to improve the knowledge base about the impacts of climate
change is critical to developing responses to reduce vulnerability. Using this information, Mexico has
initiated a number of studies and assessments, and a number of programs are under preparation, which
design local responsesto climate change.16As of now two suchprograms are about to be finalized for the
states of Veracruz and Nuevo Le6n. In addition, the following vulnerability assessments have been
completed: (i)   agriculture, water and forestry in the state of Tlaxcala; (ii) tourism in Quintana Roo; (iii)
agriculture in Morelos; (iv) coastal wetland ecosystems along the Gulf Coast; and (v) fresh water supply
for the city of Hermosillo. The Bank is also supporting the preparation of a GEF-funded project for the



14 The CICC is chaired by the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y
RecursosNaturales - SEMARNAT), the Vice-Minister o f Environment serves as Executive Secretarywith Ministers
o f the following areas serving as members:the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Production, Rural Development,
Fisheries and Food(Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrollo Rural, Pescay Alimentacidn - SAGARPA),
the Ministry of Communicationand Transportation(Secretaria de Comunicacidny Transportes-SCQ, the Ministry
of Economy (Secretaria de Economia - SE), the Ministry of Social Development(Secretaria de Desarrollo Social -
SEDESOL), the Ministry of Energy (Secretaria de Energia - SENER), and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
(Secretaria de Relaciones Exteriores - SRE). The Ministry o f Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienday
Cre'dito Pziblico - SHCP) is a permanent invited member to the CICC's deliberations. See more details at
http://www.semarnat.nob.mx/queessemarnat/politica ambientallcambioclimatico/Panes/cicc.aspx

 IsSee http://www.semamat.gob.mx/ciueessemamat/uolitica ambienta~cambiocIimatico/Pages/c4.as~x
 16InDecember2007 INEorganizedtwo workshopsinwhich 15 states participated, duringwhichthey discussed
state-levelGHG inventories and state-level climatechange programs.

                                                       16

formulation o f national water policy that factors in climate change and the implementation o f pilot
adaptation measures along the Gulf o fMexico.

56.      Mexico City has adopted its own climate change strategy and i s a leading example o f sub-
national climate policy making. The Climate Change Strategy for Mexico City is the first o f its kind in
Latin America. This municipal strategy includes a GHG inventory and calls for measures to reduce the
carbon footprint o f economic sectors, in particular in the transport sector, which accounts for about 40
percent o f the emissions in the Mexico City metropolitan area. It also suggests practical adaptation
measures, emphasizing inparticular reforestation and greening programs in and around the city.

57.      Mitigation. Mexico has been taking steps to reduce emissions from its business-as-usual
scenario. In particular, visible and well-publicized initiatives are underway in the transport, energy and
waste management sectors, a number o f which have led to C D M projects. Mexico i s ranked fourth in
terms o f number o f C D M projects inthe world (with over 100 projects registered by the C D M Executive
Board so far) and fifth in terms o f expected average annual emission reduction o f GHGs. The World
Bank has been a strong partner for Mexico in its cutting-edge mitigation activities, usingIBRD, GEF and
carbon finance resources. Activities that have been successful and will be scaled up include: (i)       bus rapid
transport building on the Insurgentes corridor in Mexico City and other cities; (ii)urban waste
management with landfill gas capture for electricity production, building on Monterrey project in
multiple cities; (iii)large-scale wind energy, building up on the La Venta project in Oaxaca and other
parts o f Mexico (e.g., Baja California); (iv) rural electrification with renewables (including solar
photovoltaics and other small-scale energy for remote households and communities), building on the
model o f the recently approved GEF and IBRD-funded project; (v) residential energy efficiency, building
on successful compact fluorescent lightingand efficient appliance programs nationwide; (vi) large-scale
reforestation efforts under the ProArbol program; and (vii) the Tres Hermanos associated gas flaring
reduction project between PEMEX and Statoil.

58.      In the economic policy arena, the GoM has adopted fiscal measures that foster climate change
mitigation. Among them are direct federal budget increases, such as the doubling in2007 o f the ProArbol
budget, which has allowed for the reforestation o f 642,000 hectares, Le., more than double the estimated
annual loss o f forest c0ver.l' The estimated climate benefit o f this reforestation effort is a reduction o f
approximately six million tons o f COz. In addition, tax incentives for clean vehicles are included in the
recently approved Budget Law o f December 2007. New hybridgasoline-electric cars are exempt from the
tax on new automobiles (Impuestosobre automobiles nuevos - ISAN), and public agencies undertaking
C D M projects are now allowed to keep the sales revenues o f their GHG emission reductions."

59.      Sectoral programs have initiated actions to address climate change. As described below, the
public and private sector are implementing initiatives to adapt to climate change and decouple GHG
emissions from economic growth.

60.      Agriculture. The agricultural sector program for 2007-2012 defines climate change as a strategic
national and international problem which demands immediate action. The national program for
agriculture, livestock and fisheries, based on an assessment o f the impact o f climate change in the sector,
is orienting public policy towards reconversion and rotation o f crops, generating incentives to expand
sustainable use and conservation o f natural resources and wildlands. Mitigation activities include
reducing the use o f fire, promoting zero tillage, reforestation, retrofitting livestock facilities to capture


 17The Prokrbol program was introducedby the GoM in 2007 with the objective of consolidating different federal
support mechanisms to enhance the forestry sector, especially in the 101 least privileged municipalities. It is
managedby the National Forestry Commission(CONAFOR) within SEMARNAT. The program issues competitive
grants from CONAFOR to requests submitted by organizations or individuals for improving forest planning, forest
protection, reforestation, developingcommercialactivities inwood processing, soil conservation,etc.
 18Article 16 o f the Ley de Ingresos de la Federacidn para el Ejercicio Fiscal 2008; Article DBcimo Segundo of the
Presupuestode Egresos de la Federacidnpara el Ejercicio Fiscal 2008.

                                                         17

and use o f methane and more efficiency in the use of energy in fisheries. The main initiatives to
strengthen capacity to adapt to climate change include targeted research, genetic banks and expansion of
seed reserves, corridors and conservation areas.

61.     Energy.The energy sector program for 2007-2012 focuses on mitigation, highlightingthe need to
decouple economic growth and GHG emissions through more efficient productionand use o f energy, less
dependent on fossil fuels. The program sets further targets, including an annual electricity-related
emissions reduction ranging between 14 Mt CO2e and 28 Mt C02e by 2012 and a reduction in the
maximum sulfur content o f gasoline to 80 parts per million (ppm) by 2012 from the current 500 ppm. For
renewable energy sources, the target i s to provide a minimum o f 26 percent o f the electricity demanded
by 2012. The adaptation chapter focuses on studyingthe impacts o f climate change on the exploration,
production and distribution o f energy and in the population and regional economic activities, to design
and develop capacities and action plans.

62.      Housing. The GoM intends to build one million new houses for low-income families per year,
with the option o f accessing a `green mortgages' mechanism whereby a family will be able to finance
energy and water efficiency measures through its mortgage, and reimburse the incremental cost o f these
efficiency measures by the gains over time inelectricity and water expenditures.

63.      The private sector is also participating in measures to address climate change. About 80 private
companies, including some o f Mexico's largest firms, have started reporting their GHG inventories under
an initiative fostered by the local chapter o f the World Business Council for Sustainable Development
and largest industrial chamber in the country (Consejo Coordinador Empresarial), the World Resources
Institute and SEMARNAT."




l9 See httix//www.geimexico.ora/reportes.html

                                                     18

                IV.     BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY


A. LINKTO COUNTRY PARTNERSHIPSTRATEGY
64.     To align more closely the World Bank Group's support with the government of Mexico's 2007-
2012 National Development Plan (NDP), the Mexico CPS for FY08-FY13 is composed of the same five
pillars as the NDP. This new Mexico CPS, being submitted to the Board concurrently with this
operation, provides a flexible framework for future World Bank Group support to Mexico. It proposes a
streamlined approach to lending, consolidating most of the lendingvolume in one large annual DPL. A
second track of lending would be provided via investment loans in the environmental sector to leverage
Mexico's access to concessional financing in this sector. The streamlined lending program is expectedto
be accompanied by an enhancedprogram of non-lendingadvisory services and technical assistance. It is
proposed that memoranda of understanding be established with sector ministries to lay out the annual
work program innon-lending services.

65.     Within the framework of the CPS, follow-up actions for supporting the implementation of the
government's climate change strategy could be based on a mix of the following options: (i)possible
stand-alone second phase climate change DPL; (ii)inclusion of activities to implement the government's
climate change strategy in a future multi-sector DPL; (iii)technical assistance loans to support DPL
implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities; and (iv) a memorandum of understanding on
advisory and analytic activities on climate change and completion of those activities.

B. COLLABORATIONWITH THE IMFAND OTHERDONORS
66.     Mexico has no Purchases or Loans outstanding with the IMF and maintains periodic bilateral
discussions as part of the Fund's regular surveillance program. The last Article IV consultation was
concluded by the IMF Executive Board on December 3, 2007. IMF and Bank staff maintain formal and
informal contact exchanging ideas and coordinating activities on economic development and public
policies inMexico, as well as on specific technical assistancerequests by the GoM.

67.     The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) is also supporting the GoM's climate change
agenda. Duringpreparation of this operation, the Bank has coordinated closely with the IADB. The Bank
team held several meetings with IADB, in particular, to discuss cooperation on the costs of climate
change study. The collaboration with IADB and other donors will continue through the implementation
of this DPL and continued policy dialogue with the GoM.

C. RELATIONSHIPTO OTHERBANKOPERATIONS
68.     This operation builds on the Bank's engagement in the energy and natural resources sectors in
Mexico, and on the climate change activities already supported by the Bank in Mexico. The Bank's
engagement with Mexico on climate change issues dates back to the mid-1990s. This engagement now
comprises 26 active initiatives, financed by IBRD loans, GEF grants, carbon finance emission reductions
purchase agreements, grants for capacity building in the carbon finance area, and grants for economic
sector work and knowledge products.20These initiatives are the result of a long-standing dialogue with a
wide range of Mexican stakeholders and center on the following main objectives: (i)support for
adaptation; (ii)policy development and institution building; (iii)   first-of-a-kind mitigation projects and
programs; and (iv) identification and promotion of short-term and long-term mitigation options.




2o A complete summary of the Bank's programon climate change is provided in"Confronting Climate Change
Together: World Bank SupportedClimate Change Activities inMexico," March3,2008.

                                                    19

             Box 4: Ongoing Climate Change Activities Supported by the Bank in Mexico




                                   I
               ENERGY                     FORESTRY                             URBAN             AGRICULTURE

      Proiects:                       Proiects:                       &&&:                    m:
      Large Scale Renewable Energy    Community Forestry(1)           MexicoCity Low Carbon      SustainableRural
      (2, 3)                                                          Transport Corridors(1)     Development(I,2)
                                       Paymentfor                      Introductionto Climate
      HybridSolar Thermal (2)          EnvironmentalServices           FriendlyMeasures in
                                       (1!2)                          Transport (2)

      Rural Electrification(1, 2)
                                       Los Tuxlas                      Mexico City Metrobus
      IntegratedEnergy Services(3)     Reforestation(3)                ExpansionProgram(3)

      Biomass ResiduesBasedCo-         SeawaterAgroforestry
      Generation (3)                                                   MexicoCity Transport
                                       (3)                             Corridor(3)
      FIDE/ASI Energy Efficiency(3)
                                                                       BundledLandfillGas
                                                                       Recovery(3)

                                                                       ChihuahuaLFG Capture(3)

                                                                       Waste Management
                                                                       (MonterreyII) (3)

      a:                                                              a:
      Low Carbon Study (MEDEC)                                         LandfillGas initiative

      CDM TechnicalAssistance
      (Centro Mario Molinaand
      Bancomext)


                                                      LJADAPTATION


                                           m:
                                           Adaptation to Climate Change in the Gulf of
                                           Mexico Wetlands (2)
     NOTE:                                A&:
      1   IBRD FinancedProject             Simulationof Future Climate Scenario
                                           Quantificationof Climate Impactsin the Gulf of
      2 GEF FinancedProject                Mexico

                                           Vulnerabilityto Climate Change inAgriculture
     3 Carbon FinancedProjects             Systems




D. LESSONSLEARNED
69.     The design o f the proposed DPL takes into account the lessons learned from the World Bank
environmental portfolio in Mexico and in general from Bank activities in other middle-income countries
in the climate change area. In particular, lessons learned were incorporated from the Mexico First
Programmatic Environment Structural Adjustment Loan and Second Programmatic Environment
Development Policy Loan (EnvSAL Iand EnvDPL 11) (PO74539 and P079748), as well as the Colombia
Sustainable Development DPL Iand I1(PO81397 and P095877).

                                                            20

70.     The Bank-supported climate change activities listed in Box 4 also provided valuable lessons in
designing this operation. The most important lessons from these various operations and activities are the
following:

     Strong country ownership. A strong country ownership is a pre-requisite for the success o f an
      operation, especially a cross-sectoral operation like this proposed loan. The proposed operation
      responds to GoM's request to support specific programs and areas which reflect the outcome o f
      national policymaking processes. It is grounded on the GoM's exemplary program and activities in
      climate change including the Third Communication to the UNFCCC, a robust portfolio o f projects,
      and a comprehensive National Climate Change Strategy. Furthermore, the proposed operation
      builds on the strong partnership betweenthe World Bank and Mexico on climate change.

      Strategic orientation of the Bank's assistance. The success o f Bank assistance in the climate
      change agenda in a country depends on a holistic program that i s grounded in each key sector o f
      the economy and supported by concrete actions. The proposed Climate Change DPL elevates
      climate change to the highest political levels.

      Mainstreaming climate change operations in investmentandpolicy lending. Adaptation to climate
      change, in particular, requires that climatic factors be assimilated in sectoral policies and
      investment decisions. These policies and specific projects may also benefit from financial options
      created by domestic and international carbon markets. Both o f these demand that, in the Bank and
      in the country, climate change specialists work hand in hand with sectoral specialists at the
      planning stage o f new policies and investments. The proposed operation is designed to strengthen
      the government's efforts to mainstream climate change agenda in key economic sectors o f the
      country.

      Focus on a select number of central actions, impacts, and results in the design of the Program.
      Including too many measures in an operation creates strains on the Borrower's implementationand
      supervision capacity. The monitoring and evaluation framework proposed under this operation
      synthesizes the actions envisaged under the NCCS to about ten critical steps and corresponding
      indicators.

      Inter-agency coordination is critical for mainstreaming climate change in key economic sectors.
      Inter-agency coordination is hindered by factors such as institutional inertia and bureaucratic
      boundaries. The climate change impacts and socio-economic costs o f mitigation and adaptation
      activities are not readily available, thus creating further complexities in fostering interagency
      coordination. Champions are needed and inter-institutional technical working groups need to be
      empowered to do their work. The proposed operation recognizes the advances made in the field by
      the G o M and encourages further reinforcements.

      Learning by doing. First-of-a-kind mitigation projects have great value and can be replicated and
      scaled up. Likewise, the first state and city adaptation plans create emulation and body o f
      experience for other states and cities to reproduce and improve upon.

      Sound analytical underpinning. The design o f any reform program and implementation o f a
      multisectoral policy agenda i s greatly enhanced with a sound analytical basis. The design o f the
      proposed operation is based on a plethora o f government and Bank supported activities and
      programs. However, much is still to be known about climate change, its effects, and how to reduce
      them. The proposed operation provides for ongoing dialogue with the G o M on climate change and
      for further analytical work to support the G o M to mainstream climate change agendas in key
      economic sectors.




                                                     21

E. ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS
71.     The preparation o f this DPL has benefited from a number o f analytical studies, policy notes, and
the Country Partnership Strategy for FY 2008-2013 for Mexico. Some o f this key analytical work
includes:

      Visualizing Future Climate in Latin America: Resultsfiom the application of the Earth Simulator.
      This research used the Earth Simulator in Japan to predict climate trends in Latin America at a
      resolution o f 20 by 20 km. The research predicted dramatic climate-induced impacts in Mexico
      from coastal areas to highlands.

      Managing Climate Risk: Integrating Adaptation into World Bank Group Operations. This
      analytical work carried out by the Bank's Environment Department provided operational
      suggestions for integratingclimate change impacts indesigning projects.

      The Instituto Nacional de Ecologia (NE) conducted several analyses o f possible impacts o f
      climate change on different sectors (e.g., energy, agriculture), on different geographic regions of
      Mexico and on different ecosystems/species in 2006.2' In 2007, the Instituto Mexican0 de
      Tecnologia del Agua (IMTA) completed an analysis o f the possible impacts o f climate change on
      water resources. These studies have provided valuable insights in preparing the country's Third
      National Communication and in designing the proposed operation.

72.     Most o f the climate change operations supported by the Bank have benefited from a strong
analytical foundation in the areas o f baseline emissions data, monitoring methodologies for carbon
finance transactions, and assessments o f the impacts o f climate change.




21For example, "Andlisis deposibles impactos del cambio climdtico en el sector energe`ticome`xicano", "Ancilisis del
estado del cambio climdtico en ecoregiones de Me`xico, estudio de caso: especies selectas de vertebrados
ende`micos", "Andlisis de la Vulnerabilidad y Capacidad de Adaptacidn a1 Cambio Climdtico de 10s Sectores
Hidrico y Agricola en el Estado de Morelos", and "Ancilisis de Posibles Impactos del Cambio Climdtico. Estudio de
Cas0Preliminar: Cancgn, QuintanaRoo."

                                                       22

        V.      THE PROPOSED CLIMATE CHANGEDEVELOPMENTPOLICY LOAN



A. OPERATIONDESCRIPTION

73.     A direct excerpt from the Executive Summary of Mexico's National Climate Change Strategy
best highlightsthe importance attachedby the GoMto addressingclimate changewithout delay:

        Problem relevance:

             Climate change, caused by an increase in the atmospheric concentrations of GHGs
             represents, along with ecosystem degradation and biodiversity loss, the major environmental
            problem of the x;YI Century and one of the most urgent global challenges faced by
             humankind.
             Climate change is a problem of strategic security, the solution of which demands
             unprecedentedeffortsfor mitigation and capacity buildingfor adaptation, in the light of the
            predictable adverse impacts.
             Adaptation and mitigation are equally important and necessary strategies: neither of them
             can be employedto the detriment of the other.
             Inaction today will exponentially raise the costs of adaptation in thefuture, so reducing the
            potential scope of that adaptation.
             Given their socio-economic,political, and cultural implications, measuresfor mitigation and
             adaptation to climate change will increasinglyfeature in the decision making processes at
             the highest levels, involving the executive and legislative powers, state and municipal
             governments, and civil society.

74.     The objective of the proposed operation is to recognize and support the government's efforts
under its National Climate Change Strategy to mainstream climate change considerations in public
policy. The various measures undertaken by Mexico in the climate change area illustrate the country's
leadership on climate change.

75.     The proposed operation provides overall budget support in recognition of the significant
contribution that the National Climate Change Strategy will make to Mexico's development agenda. The
Strategy establishes the framework and represents the vital first steps for confronting the challenges of
climate change in a comprehensive and integrated fashion. Development was a national effort and a
major undertaking by several Ministries, coordinated by SEMARNAT. It distinguishes Mexico among
most other major developing countries. Besides Mexico, only South Africa and China have adopted such
a strategy.

76.     Environmental sustainability is one of the key pillars of GoM's 2007-2012 National
Development Plan and the proposed operation is part of the country's plan to promote environmental
sustainability. This is also one of the primary areas of Bank engagement in the proposed 2008-2013
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico, reflecting the priority that the government attaches to
enhancing environmental sustainability.




                                                   23

                                    Box 5: GoodPractice in Policy Lending

Principle 1:Reinforce ownership
This operationhas beenclient driven andenjoys solid country ownership given bythe following elements:
    Alignment with government's goals. This operation is fully framed in the National Climate Change
Strategy.
     Positive track record of reform by the GoM. The GoM has taken a leadership role among developing
countries by submitting its Third National Communication to the UNFCCC, and by adopting pragmatic and
constructivepositions ininternational negotiationson apost-2012 climate regime, including the suggestionthat
Mexico may adopt voluntary GHG reduction commitments in the context of "common but differentiated
responsibilities."
     Timely and demand driven analytical support. Even though it is not envisaged at this stage to combine
this DPL with a technical assistance loan, the GoM has requestedthe Bankto support it with technical advice
on climate change, andthe Bankwill look for ways to provide this advice inthe context of its ongoing dialogue
with the GoM under the new CPS. This assistancewould be inline with the key areas, indicators and outcomes
identifiedinthe monitoring indicatorsmatrix inTable 2.

Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountabilityframework
The proposed loan is based on a coherent framework of previous actions and expected outcomes that is based
on the GoM's program. The Bank team and the GoM have prepared an operational policy matrix and
monitoring indicators matrix, agreeing on the indicative triggers for the preparation of the loan, prior actions
for Board approvalandexpectedprogramoutcomes basedonthe government'sprogram.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances
The loan features follow the client's requests andthe policy matrix has beenadaptedto country circumstances:
     Flexibility of Bank services to accommodate the needs of a sophisticated Middle-Income Country (MIC).
Through this operation, the Bank offers recognition and budget support for the outstandingmeasures taken by
the country to mainstream climate change in public policy. In addition, the Bank is planning additional
assistance at the GoM's request, whereby the Bank will provide advice on firther steps envisaged by the
governmentinimplementingthe National Climate Change Strategy.
     Thepolicy matrix is based on the GoM'sprogram. The accountability fiamework fully reflects the GoM's
program and specific actionsalreadytaken. This operationdoes not supportpolitically sensitivereforms.
     The monitoring indicators matrix is based on the GoM'sprogram. In the context of further assistanceto
be provided by the Bank, the table suggests steps deemed to be critical to meet the objectives of the National
Climate Change Strategy.

Principle4: Chooseonly actions criticalfor achieving results as conditionsfor disbursement
The policy matrix is brief and focused, with a limited set of actions and conditions already met that are
necessaryto achieve the desiredresults ofthe program.

Principle5: Conducttransparentprogress reviews
Even though the operation is not conceivedas a programmatic series, the ongoing dialogue betweenthe GoM
and the Bank on climate change will provide the framework for progress reviews of the implementation of the
National Climate Change Strategy. Steps already plannedby the GoM, inparticular the adoption ofthe Special
Climate Change Program in 2008 will also provide further material for framing the progress reviews and
monitoring and evaluation.




                                                         24

B. POLICYAREAS
77.    The proposed climate change DPL is conceived as a single operation that will highlight Mexico's
achievements in the climate change area and support its planned policy program. The operation will also
provide a strategic framework for an expanded dialogue between the GoM and the Bank on climate
change. The DPL focuses on the following three recent actions, which are synthesized in the form of a
policy matrix inAnnex 3:

       (i)SubmissionoftheThirdNationalCommunicationtotheUNFCCCin2006;
       (ii)ApprovalinMay2007 oftheNCCSbytheCICCreinforcingtheinstitutionalandstrategic
             framework inplace; and

       (iii)Initiationofsectoralprogramsfor energy, andenvironment andnaturalresources(forestry
             in particular), including policy incentives to reduce the carbon intensity of the Mexican
             economy.

78.    The significance ofthese three prior actions is reflected below:

       (i)TheThirdNationalCommunication providedthe foundation for designingnationalpublic
            policies on climate change inall sectors, and servedas the basis for the NCCS and the SCCP.
            It set a common ground for consensus building among public institutions, the private sector,
            and civil society;

       (ii)TheNCCSformalizedMexico's voluntarycommitmenttodecouplingGHGemissionsfrom
            economic growth in the context of its National Development Plan, earning Mexico domestic
            and international recognition for this commitment. The NCCS also enhanced understanding
            on the country's high vulnerability to climate change and its commitment to initiating
            measures to reduce it; and

       (iii)The inclusion of climate change in energy and forestry programs signals that some sectors
            are beginning to internalize climate change as a development variable, and are planning
            adaptation and mitigation actions.

79.    These prior actions have been met as of the time of writing this report.

80.    Looking forward, the Bank will support the GoM in the challenging task o f implementing the
NCCS. The Bank's value added rests in its convening power, the provision of global expertise in this
highly specialized field, and resource mobilization. Mexico has requested further assistance from the
Bank inthe climate change area, inparticular through the provision o ftechnical advice and access to new
financial mechanisms. The GoM and the Bank have agreed that they will review progress in
implementingthe NCCS on a semi-annual basis.

81.    Future areas for Bank assistanceto the GoM include:

       Access to newJinancing sourcesfor long-term mitigation and adaptation. Inthe future the Bank
       can assist the GoM in accessing new financing sources for mitigation. For example, the Climate
       Investment Fund to be set up in the course of 2008 could provide concessional financing for
       large-scale programs to reduce emissions, such as those programs in the urban transport area. In
       the forestry area, the recently announcedNorwegian initiative on tropical forests and the Forest




                                                    25

        Carbon Partnership Facility could provide underlying financing for initiatives undertaken by
        GOM.~~

        Advisory services. Possible areas for assistance under memoranda of understanding with sector
        ministriesincludethe following:

                 Development of CDM Programs of Activities PO AS).^^ The Bank could assist in the
                 formulation of PoAs in priority sectors that the GoM has identified, e.g., housing, waste
                 management, transport, infrastructure, tourism, energy, and water resources;

                 Adaptation measures in investment programs, supported by enhanced analysis and
                 information on climate change scenarios, vulnerability, and measures to increase
                 resilience;

                 International exchanges, to enable Mexico to share its experience with other countries to
                 stimulate learning;

                 Communication and dissemination of the GoM's climate change policy, focusing on the
                 NCCS and SCCP;

                 Enhancement of stakeholder participation inthe climate change policy debate;

                 Institutional strengthening to support implementation of the GoM's climate change
                 policy;

                 Assessment of climate change and poverty linkages; and

                 Review and discussion of international experience in the use of carbon trading and
                 taxation.




22The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) was announced inDecember 2007. It will be administeredby the
World Bank and aims to buildthe capacity of countries to tap into a hture system ofpositive incentives for REDD.
A   dozen countries     and organizations have pledged $165           million to the     FCPF to date (see
www,carbonfinance.or/fcDf). Mexico, together with another 34 developing countries, has expressed interest in
participatinginthe FCPFand is preparingaformal submission.
23Incontrast to aCDMproject,a PoA may cover one or severalinterventions, andmayhavea wider boundary (e.g.,
a whole city, a whole state or even a whole country). Some of the most promisingPoAs include the following: (i)
energy efficiency and methane avoidance in ago-industry (with SAGARPAFIRCO); (ii)energy efficiency in
housing through improvedbuilding standards (with CONAVI); and (iii) efficiency programs through CFE,
                                                                        energy
Luzy Fuerzadel Centro, FIDE, and CONAE.

                                                      26

                              VI.     OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

A. POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACTS
82.      It is broadly accepted that the poorest countries and the most vulnerable communities in
developing countries will bear a disproportionate brunt of the hardship associated with climate change.
Climate change can cause or compound poverty in a variety of ways, including: (i)      damage to livelihood
assets, including homes, water supply, health and infrastructure, undermining peoples' ability to earn a
living; (ii)reduced crop yields, affecting food security; (iii)changes in natural resources, infrastructure,
and labor productivity, reducing income opportunities and affecting economic growth; and (iv) social
tensions over resource use, potentially leadingto conflict, destabilizing lives and livelihoods, and forcing
communities to migrate. Given that climate change could hinder the development gains achieved by
many developing countries, it is important to integrate adaptation to climate change in development
planning to mitigate this risk.

83.      Adaptation measures that could result in positive social outcomes include improved management
of water availability, a shift to drought resistant crops, and strengthen health services to prevent vector
and waterborne diseases. In addition, adaptation should ensure that communities' traditional knowledge
and capacity in managing climatic changes is recognized and further strengthened.

84.      Although it is generally accepted that early action on adaptation will render positive social and
economic benefits in the long run, specific measures for adaptation and mitigation could lead to negative
impacts. For example, improved land use planning to adapt to climate change could lead to the relocation
of investments in less flood prone areas, which in turn may produce employment losses in some areas
and employment gains in others. Adaptation could also impact agricultural and forestry activities, which
may have to be limited at certain times o f the year in some areas.

85.      The ongoing analysis of the economic costs of climate change in Mexico, which follows the
methodology of the Stern review, is expected to produce aggregate estimates comparing the costs of
Mexico's response to climate change with a scenario in which no action is taken. Although various
studies have been initiated, no analysis has been conducted to date in any developing country on the
distributional aspects of both climate impacts and response measures. Hence, the GoM and the Bank
recognize the need to conduct further studies, in particular, a poverty and social analysis of both the
climate impacts and response measures resultingfrom the sectoral and adaptation plans supported under
this operation. For example, an impact analysis of the 2007 floods in the state of Tabasco on vulnerable
populations and associated responseswould illustrate the ways in which the poor are affected as well as
the most appropriate responsesto address their needs.


B. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORINGAND EVALUATION
86.      Giventhat this operation is undertaken as support to the GoM's National Development Plan and
in particular the NCCS, the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of this operation mirror the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation o f the Strategy itself.

87.      The Bank will rely on the monitoring and evaluation mechanisms put in place by the GoM to
assess success in implementingits own Strategy, in particular in the first two years o f implementation of
the SCCP. In the context of its ongoing dialogue with the GoM on climate change, including the
possibility of memoranda of understanding signed with the GoM, as well as technical assistance loans
and other loans for the environment, the Bank may assist in improving the monitoring and evaluation
framework where needed.



                                                      27

88.      In an effort to synthesize large amounts of information, this operation proposes a streamlined
monitoring and evaluationframework, which will help the GoM and the Bank assess progresstowards
the successful implementationof the NCCS within a 24-monthtimeframe.The GoM and the Bank have
agreed that they will review progress in implementing the NCCS on a semi-annual basis. Table 3
includes all of the policy action areas of the NCCS, namely (i)"Mitigation"; (ii)           "Carbon Pricinginthe
NationalEconomy"; (iii)"Adaptation"; and (iv) "Knowledge Base"; and proposes an additional policy
area, namely (v) "Institutional Strengthening."


                                     Table 3: Monitoring Indicators


Mainstream         Mitigation       o SpecialClimate ChangeProgram           Mexico defines its voluntary emission
climate change                          adopted.                             reduction commitments inthe context
considerations in                   o Sectoral contributions to the national of its 2007-2012 National
public policy                          mitigation effort defined.            Development Planand its 2030
                                     o National emission reductiontargets    planning framework, with major
                                        set.                                 sectors contributingto the national
                                                                             emission reduction targets
                   Domestic carbon   Proposalfor a national carbon trading   Mexico acquires the information about
                   pricing           system developed and discussedwith      thepolicy options to internalize the
                                     key stakeholders                        effect of GHG emissions

                   Adaptation       At least five states committed to        A number of state governments
                                     adopting climate changeplans            preparedto confront climate change
                                                                             impacts
                                     At least 10cities among the most        A number of city governments
                                     vulnerable committed to adopting a      preparedto confront climate change
                                     climate changeplan                      impacts

                   Knowledgebase     4`h National Communication to           Improved information basis for
                                     UNFCCC submitted                        assessingprogress towards reducing
                                                                             climate vulnerabilities and
                                                                             contributions to GHGemissions.
                                     Feasibility of mitigation activities    Costs of specific mitigationmeasures
                                     defined for priority sectors            available inpriority sectors

                                     Physical and economic impacts of        Mexico's authorities able to make
                                     climate changeon Mexico assessed        informed choices about policy
                                                                             measures
                   Institutional     CICC delivers its first progress report Improved coordination and
                   strengthening     on implementation of the Special        accountability in climate changepolicy
                                     Climate ChangeProgram                   implementation.

                                     Training of key federal institutions    Climate changepolicy is further
                                     responsiblefor the implementation of    mainstreamed in sectoral policy and
                                     the Special Climate Change Program      investments
                                     developed.



89.       The Bank team will supervise the Climate Change DPL with a particular emphasis on
ascertainingwhether the governmentis carryingout the operationwith a focus on developmentimpactto
achieve its objectives.The proposedmonitoringframework for this operation includeselevenmonitoring
indicators and corresponding expected outcomes, which can be considered strategic milestones in
assessing progress in implementation of the Strategy. The Bank team will monitor actions taken to
achievethese outcomes andreview implementationprogressof the DPL, as well as subsequentactions in
the government's program.Annex 6 contains more details on each indicator and expectedoutcome.




                                                         28

C. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS
90.     Ingeneral, the public financialmanagement systems inMexicoare adequatefor DPLlending, as
documented in the 2003 Country Financial Accountability Assessment, 2007 Country Procurement
AssessmentReport (currentlybeing finalized), andother analyticalwork. There is roomfor improvement
in some areas, such as procurement and accounting practices that do not fully meet international
standards.However, there are plansunderway,whichthe Bank is supportingto moveinthis direction.

D. DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING
91.      SHCP has designated Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) as financial agent of the Borrower with
regardto the loan.

92.      SHCP has elected a Deferred Drawdown Option (DDO) as the disbursement mode for this
operation. The DDO feature gives an IBRDborrower the optionof deferringdisbursementsunder a DPL
for up to three years (renewable for an additionalthree years with Board approval), provided that the
borrower'soverallprogramimplementationandmacroeconomicpolicy framework remainadequate.

93.     Followinga request for withdrawal, the funds will be transferred to a designated account inUS$
of the financial agent24for subsequent credit to an account of the NationalTreasury (TESOFE/SHCP).
Box 6 illustratesthe flow of funds and information.

94.      The amount of the single operation is US$501.25 million, includinga front-end fee of US$1.25
million, which will become available to finance general budget expenditures through the public financial
management (PFM) systems cited in the previous paragraphs. If requested by the Bank, SHCP will
providethe Bank with a writtenconfirmationofthe describedtransaction.

                                    Box 6: Flow of Fundsand Information
                                            -
                                                            I
                                             Emlronment and Natural
                                             Resources Secretariat
                                                clii
                                                 ( S M W T )




                                                   REPORTS


                                                        v
                                           1-D-m-j-                 I
                                                                           tanotwmsww
                                                                                ESOFE

                                                                               (SHCP)




                    Note




95.      Based on the review of the external audit reports and the extensive flow-of-fund experience
between the Bank and NAFIN, nothinghas come to the attentionof bank staff that would indicatethat
the bankingcontrolenvironmentintowhichthe loanproceedswould flow is other than adequate.


24The use of a financial agent and designated account is a local standard procedure established by the GoM for
control purposes, not an additional arrangementrequestedby the Bank.

                                                        29

96.      Based on the assessment o f the PFM and banking environments, no additional fiduciary
arrangements are deemed necessary for the DPL.

E. ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

97.      The operation is expected to have significant, positive impacts on the environment and natural
resources. The operation is precisely designed to reduce the adverse environmental impacts o f climate
change on Mexico and the rest o f the world by reducing GHG emissions and GHG concentrations. The
operation supports the government's efforts under its National Climate Change Strategy, inparticular the
reduction o f GHG emissions on a voluntary basis. Moreover, reducing GHG emissions will also
contribute to reducing the emissions o f local pollutants. Therefore, in the short term, no environmental
costs are expected from the implementationo fthe National Climate Change Strategy.

98.      It is possible, however, that in the medium to long term, certain mitigation and adaptation
measures might have indirect impacts on the local environment due to the need for relocating
infrastructure or agricultural activities, e.g., building new roads and other infrastructure to support the
relocation o f human settlements, factories or tourism resorts, or the irrigation o f new land to develop
additional or alternative agricultural land. These costs will be justified by the paramount objective o f
protecting the infrastructure or agricultural potential in the first place. Environmental assessments for the
corresponding investments will be conducted in due course so that any indirect environmental costs o f
climate change (Le., those costs that are incurred as a response to climate change) can themselves be
mitigated.

F. RISKSAND RISK MITIGATION

99.      The operation's primary risk arises from the institutional arrangements required for the adoption
o f the NCCS, as such the proposed loan is subject to moderate risk.

100.     The following risks have been identified:

             Institutional risks: For mainstreaming climate change in key economic sectors and in
             subnational entities, significant multisectoraland federal-state collaboration i s needed, which
             could face bottlenecks in the implementation o f the NCCS. Because o f uneven capacity
             among the sectoral agencies at federal, regional, state, and municipal levels, and due to the
             disproportionate level o f impacts and priorities, the implementation of the Strategy may be
             slow and uneven. On the budget side, institutional inertia and administrative resistance may
             affect the capacity o f the G o M to redesign programs such that sectoral agencies fail to
             mainstream climate change in their core programs. Risk mitigation: SEMARNAT i s fully
             aware o f these risks and committed to the Strategy's implementation. An indication o f the
             GoM's commitment is the President's formal announcement o f the Strategy, as well as it
             being one o f the first initiatives adopted by the new administration. In addition, the G o M has
             sought to mitigate the coordination risks by establishing the CICC to provide the required
             multisectoral collaboration to implement the Strategy. A key challenge is to ensure that the
             CICC is provided with the necessary authority and means to be effective. The CICC's
             deliberations ought to benefit from the participation o f the most senior officials, namely
             Vice-Ministers. If need be, the Presidential administration may weight in to ensure progress
             and arbitrage possible disagreements among ministries. A SCCP is being developed and
             expected to be adopted by the G o M in calendar year 2008. The Program will provide
             concrete and prioritized measures for the implementation o f the Strategy and will thus
             contribute to the convergence o f different interests or provide political arbitrage among these
             interests. Moreover, the preparation o f state and city action plans for climate change will

                                                       30

reinforce the subnational entities' capacity to address climate change. Further capacity
building for state and city administrations may be necessary. In order to support the
prioritizing o f required actions, the announcement o f the NCCS provided visibility to the
climate change agenda. Complementary initiatives such as the analysis o f the costs o f climate
change in Mexico and the SCCP are expected to further elevate the political profile o f
climate change and solidify the emerging national consensus on the need to address climate
change, thus reducingthe risk o f inaction or trend reversal.

Political risks: Although climate change is a highpriority o f the current administration, lack
o f commitments by other countries may damage support for the reform agenda. Risk
mitigation: By taking early action, Mexico may in fact be able to benefit from incentives
such as carbon finance. Moreover, by leading by example, it will in fact contribute to
creating an enabling environment for further internationalcommitments.

Stakeholder risks: Implementation o f adaptation and mitigation measures requires
participation o f many stakeholders (e.g., in case o f changes in land and water uses).
However, climate change and responses to climate change will affect the various
stakeholders differently, which may create tensions and slow down implementation o f the
Strategy. Risk mitigation: The implementation o f the NSCC and the SCCP is expected to
provide opportunities for public consultation to shed light on, discuss and reduce these
tensions.




                                        31

                                        ANNEXES

                    ANNEX 1: LETTER OFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY




LECRETMCU M MEDlO AMBIENTE
  Y RECUK505 NATURALE5




      ROBERT5.ZOELLICK
      PRESIDENTEREL BANCOINTERNACLONALDE
      RECONSTRUCCI~N      v FOMENTO
      PRESENTE



      El GobiGrno del President0 Feltpe Calderon Hinojosa ha sido claro y enfatco en su
      coniproniisode promoverel crecimiento economicoy el bienestardo 10s mexicanosa la
      voz que asufne una actitud responsablepara reducir el crecimientode las einisionesde
      gases de etecto invernadero (GEI) y enfrentar tos retos de la adaptacton al cambro
      climatco.

      A pesar.de la rolativamentebaja emisidn de GEI. total y por habitante,de nuestro pais,
      en comparacidn con paises de similar o mayor desarrollo economico. la politica del
      Gobierno Federal ha emprendido acciones significativas para hacer frente al cambio
      clirnatico, siernpre en apego al principio de las "responsabilidades comunes per0
       diferenciadas". Tambien ha enfatizado la necesidad de contar con el apoyo
       internacionalpara incrementarlascapacidadesde initigaciony de adaptaciona1cambio
       ctimitico.

       Mexico es uri pais altarnente vulnerable al cambio climatico y diversos estudios
       proyectan impactos sustanciales que pudieran afectar a nuestros procesos de
       desarrollo. Exrslenalgunas zonas -comola regidn del Golfode Mexico y el Mar Caribe.
       que tienden a resultar afectadas por fendmenos hidrometeorologicosextremos, como
       liuracdnes e inuiidaczones, cuya intensidad pudiera intensificarsecomo consecuencia
       del cambioclirndtico.


       Para erilrwntai esta situacion de maiiera transversal y conjuntar las acciones de
       diversas Secretarias de Estado se cred la Comision Intersecretarial de Cambio
       CliinAlico (CICC). El Prssidente Calderon presentb, el 25 de mayo de 2007, La
       Estralegii? Nxionat de Cambio Climatico, cuya copia se adjunta, en la cual so
       cstablace. entre olros, el comprorniso de elaborar un Programa Especial de Cambio
       Climatico que habra de formar parte del conjunlo de programas derivados del Plan
       Nacionaldo Desarrollo2007-2012. El Programade referenciase encuentraaclualmente
       en su lase final de elaboracion.

                                         li:;Eu&zCs,iti::i;:           .lairs. Cos! .Iaxdiii,-,sCI:i,~~.:VJI
                                         L ' v I . ' l ~ ~ a l p mH.I:!drn 3 F . , 14.713
                                                                  ,




                                                     32

SECRETAR~ZOEMEDIO
   AMBIENTE
RECURSOSNANRALES




    En este contexto, consideramosde gran importanciael apoyo del Banco Mundial, por
    medio de un Prestamo de Politicas de Desarrollo en Cambio Climatico, para la
    realizacionde 10s objetivosde la mencronada Estrategia.

    Esta nueva colaboracion entre el Banco Mundial,y el Gobierno de Mdxico, incluyendo
    10s aspectos de asistencia tecnica y financiera, permitira fortalecer nuestras
    capacidades rnstitucionales para disenar y ejecutar politicas que nos permitan hacer
    frente a este gran problemaglobaly contribuirba posicionara Mexicocomo un pais en
    desarrolloparticularmenteproactivoen relacioncon el cambio climatrco.

    Agradeciendolaatenci6nque prestea esta iniciativa,me es grato enviarle uncordial
    saludo.

    ELSECRETARIO




    C c p  Agustin CarsfensCarstens Secreiariodo Hacienday Crbdno Publico Presente
           FernandoTudela. Subseerelano de Planeacim y PdiiicaAmbmtal. Present6




                                                  33

               Sintesis Ejecutivade la Estrategia de Cambio Climatico 2007


La presente Estrategia reflep el wmpromtso del E~earbvoFederal en relaudn am la rnrbgaah del cad10 drmritm y la
adaptacliKl a los efectos adversos del nusmo, sobre la base del moclrmento del problem wmo uno de 10s mayores
desafios a 10s que seenfrenta la hwnanldad

La Estrategia NaGlonal de Cambio Climattw (ENACC) identrfm medidas, precrsa poslklidades y rangos de redudn
de ernisones, propone estudioa neoesaroos para definir metas r&s preclsas de mitlgaadn y esboza las necesdades del
pais para avanzar en la mstruocdn de caapacldades de adaptaadn Aungue la ENACC se m t r a en la esfera de campetenaa
de la Adrnntstracdn FWca Federal, mtnbuye wn elto a un p m s 0 naaonai, arnph e mduyente, basado en la
cansbdn deconsemasgubemamentales,wrporabvosy malespara

   ldentificaroportunidadesde reduccltn de ernwmsy desarrolar pmyedosde rnrbgacdn,

   Reconocerla vulnerablrdad de !os respecbvmsectaresy ireasdemmpetsnclae imclarproyectosparaeldesamllo
   de capaadadesnaclonalesy localesde respueatay adapiacrh.

   Propc#lerlineasde accdn, pdibcasy estrategras, quesirvande baseparala elaboracidndeUIPragramaEspeaalde
   CaWo Qmatwx, que se inmkria en elPlanNaclonalde Desardlo 2007-2012


OPORTUNIDADES DE MITlGAClON DE EMISIONES DEGASES DE EFECTO
INVERNADERO

El objebvo generd en materia de mibgacdn constste en desacoplar cada vez rnh el ncremento de las ernisiones dd we-
amento ecawhico Para los fines que perslgue la presente Estrategla se idenbfrcan oportLnrldades sectonales y acciones
especifims que podrian realmrse durante la plesente adrnm&aabt en matena de mrtigau& en dos gandes keas
A) Qneraih y Us0 de Energia, y B) Vegetaah y Us0 del Suelo En bdas            10s c a m se d M n prectsar las metas de
redudnenel m mde la LatenordaboracdndelProgramEspecialdeCarnbtaClindtrco

A) GENERACIONY US0 DE ENERGh

La e v o M de la generacdn y utrlrzaaon de energia en Mxm abre areas de oporkinidad para plantear amnes que,
adem& de reducir ermsmnes de gases de efefecto invemadem (GEI), proporcrm una matnz energWa mjs limpla, s a -
tentable, efmente y mpetrtiva En la slguiente tabla se resumen las oporhrrwdades generales de rnrbgaclin de emislcnes
basadasen el andisis delas prospectwasdelsector al2014




                                                            34

35

dd       en    ef




      36

37

      5-15




      M.D.




      0.9




38

h n e s adicionales que mtrbuyen a mitigar bs emisiones de GEl y a m t r u i r capaadades de adaptacltjn al ambo
clim8ttm se desadlan en el m a m de la &enda de Transversalidad de bs Polit~casPirMicas que la SEMNAT establece
conotrassecretarias ydepertdenciasde laAdministrackinPWca Federal.

cambio de us0 del d o , la silvicuba, la agrialtum y b ganaderia se mquiere consolidar p d i h s pitbicas que mlderen
Para apmwhar las opOmniWs de mitrgadh de emkones en las actiwdades v'nculadas m el ~lsodel suelo. el
ias siguientes lineasgeneralesde accih.


                                            NCLIMATKAPARAVEGETAClbNY US0 DELSUELO
                                             namientoEooMgicoy Tenitorialeonlas accMnesde mitigacih de emidonesdeGE
                                          futoiondde losecosistemasy de 106kenesy mcimarfbentdes:



                    *Ampliarlampacidad prod@h        primariabrutay la~ansecuente
                    aforestacdny resiauraaonde diversosasternas.                   capturademrbonomediantereforestad


                         entar laformacKmde recumh u m menla matena.
                         ProgramMex@no delCarbon0parairnpulsariainwtigaciimcientiisobreelcidodelcarbon0

                          mtarlabvetitqpc&maplimda, micomola i.mov&           y eldesatrolk,tecnd6gicosenmatena
                          demitmoyde reducdlindeemisionesdelasactividades agropeararias


 La pbllidad, de implementar las medidas de mitigadbn, asi como la apllcacicin e M v a de las inversiones. bs programas
y 05 camb~os tecnc&3gim planteados en la presente Estrategia requieren T~CUTSOG amiderables que implimn
ma reactivaabn importante de la V m i a naaonal ypresupuestal si ificativos en las politlcas nadotyles. EI almnce de
estas medldas dependera de la magnitud del ~@erzo       de cambios
                                                                     e#m&
necesanmparacumplirlasquedarh induidasexpllcrtamenteenel FrogramaEspecialdeCamboClimatm.
                                                                               a ellas tas me@ especificas y lm   ~ e a c s o ~


 Laqecuabn de esta Estrategiadeperder6tambdn delaimplernentaahde aertos ktfumentos deCooperaCiiminternactonal.




                           VALORACldH PROGRESIVADELCARBON0 ENLA ECONOMh NAClONAL

 La rm
 m s h i es an una sdal econiwnlca que bs impulse Los wtos sociak derwados de las ermsiones causadas pw diversoa
        %r a h del cambio dimatm, es dear, bs accIOnes para la reducdn de las ennsmnes que b determinan no s e h
 agent= econixn~~~~    se vuelven oportunrdad cuando se trata de mperar        (XXI enttdades externas que necesrtan haoer
 h i eaoMgacionesasunudasenel m a mdel&gimen intemacmalde atencliKl al ambo dimbbco
 En el caw de M & m , el establecimiento de un -ma          integral de intercambfo de pem~sosde emrslbn podria asumirse
 corn w a aspnrrabn de mediano plam. que pudiera lograrse mediante M prweso reatista, conducldo pas0 a paso,
 acompaiiado dd fortaleamento de capacldades naclonales El pnnapo de progresrvldad contemplado en esta Estrategta
 plantea que se pud~erainwementar por etapas tanto el numero de sedores parkipantes como les vabres de carbon0
 rnanepdos El esquema operaria m prmm mtrolados de carbono, inicialmente bayos.                  oe pudleran 6w &jet0 de
 etapas de este esquema permibria modular w avance
 rewsiones pem~icasM equpamrse en el ~ u r oa 10s prawaprov-r   o s que rijan en     memado rriernaclonal EI de~an01ktp r
                                                                            oportuntdades que dewen de [as negoaacwnes
 del r 6 g m dimatm intemaclonal y extraer del msmo, eymqor diwdendo posibte en terminos del impdso a un desarrolb
 tmis limplo




                                                             39

                                                    ROQWSNADELGARBONO EN LAECOP(OMIANACIONAL
                                                                                       as utidadesp r o d u c ~
                                                                                        deefiectoinvemaderofomentado
                                                                                       lunfano Foment0

                                               laresdecarbon0e intercambr-0real,con lidtadasafedaciones pmupuc&a!es
                                                Revisibnperiitdcade loslimitesdeen&4ones. Incorporadkin
                                                indicativadeemisiones.
                                         deintercambiisdebaresdecarbono, contopesdevaior, entre PEMEX. CFEy
                                       tegulatmas que permitanconsolrdary ampliir estaexpenenda, nduyendo106
                                       tamononnabvosqueserequjeran.
          ) Foment0deintvmbiosdetpos            carbon09otrps sectoreseoorwSrnicos,puMicoso privados, conbase
          n pmyectosgesbmdos con ~ntefiossirnplifimdas, rnspltadosenel MDL.

         5) I-cdn
         8ttade~),ampreciostopedecarbon0quenocornprometanundesalrdloeconhmlcamenteS;VKJycompetitjvo.
                         desectores pIoductivosseleccionha unesquepnanacionalde:limitaah e intercambi" ('cap

         6)            debssectorespertrcipantesy mdidacicindelesquemanational,conprogeslvaIiberalicibnde

                    ediKl del esquerna nadonalemergenteconotros esquernasinternacionales,derivados o no del Protomlo



La estrategia progreslva permtiria  IK) d o abatjr costos de cumpiimento de metas de emisih, sin0 ademas acderar en
todo el sistema ,econbmm el reconoclmiento del valor asaciado a bs emksiones de carbono. La actual admnishcibn se
proponeiniclare impulsar el prooesodescnto.
                                       UEMENTOS PARA LAADAPTACIh NACIONAL

a que nuestro pals este exp+sb a m t o s hidrometeord@m que pueden cjetermnar desastres. Sus ~dos
La sduacih geog@ica,de       Wxico, las condiaones d W s , orogriMcas e hidrdtjgicas, entre otros factores, mtribuyen
                                                                                                                   se veran
exacerbados por el cambo dimah. !3e necesita abatr la wineratnlidad, promovlendo w a atltura preventtva en iodos bs
&nmbitosdeldesandlo naceonal.
Constnir,capaadades de ada     p        equrvaie a desandlar bs habtlidades de bs                actares        ajustarse al
                   a la vanabili                                                                          Erala-mdida.que
                  paadades de adaptaaon frente al cambw dimah, se pede redwr
                                    y a 1-yextrem climakxq 9 ,fn de rruoderar Cos d             encrah.
                                                                                                rabilidad del pais y worar
la witentabdidadde nuestrodesamllo.
Las &as     identificadas en la presente Estrategia para la cmstruocidm de capacidades de adaptacih son' W i n de
Zona costera, Asentarnlentos humanos; y Gefieracibn y us0 de Energia Corm principales retos para la gestdn en matena
nesgoa hidrometeoro&m y manejo de recursos hidncos, Ellodiversdad y m c m amhentales, &lcultura y ganaderia,
de adaptadn alcarnbodimibco,se idenhficaron10ssiguientes
         * P r e m ry foitaleoer bsiuncionesde amohguamlentoque exlstenen lascuencas.
           Cfisekr un program paraelOrdenamentodeAcuifenx;y favoremla recargahidncaenartfeulaah con el Sistema
         Nacmal de Areas Naturales Prolegrdas(SINAP)
           Refmr elwnmirniento y la implementacibnde lossistemas de informacujn y alertatemprana
         9Ajustar la6thicas detratsdentode agua a lasnuevas condrciones dimiticas




                                                            40

  Fortalecer y revisat la implementaciin de instrumentos de gestibn como la veda temporal. las keas Natllrales Protegidas
(ANP) marinas y mteras y el pago por servick hidrolrjgm, para adecuarlos a las n w a s neceSidades que
imponeel camb dimabco.
  EstaMecer comdores bid6gicos y evaluar la modlficaulxl de 10s actuales lirnites geogrMm de algunas ANP y Regiones
PnontariasparalaConservacion; paraapoyar lacapgctdadde ajuste de los ecosistemasy especies

   Revalorar la expenenda adquiriQ por grupos vuherables frente a la vartabiEdad dimfittea, para su aplicaclim en el
@anteamento politicasdeadaptacllxl4 cambsodimah.
               de

   Conservar in situ b agmbiodiirsidad mexicana mediante programas coc7juntos entre SEMARNAT y SAGARPA.
   Desandlar e implementar un sistema de informaabn y mitore0 del clima especidmente diseiiado para productores
agropecuarios.

* fwtalecer bs astemasde vigilanaa epidemdtgiia.

  Considerar una elevaain del nNel medio del ntar (NMM) de 40 cm entre la actualtdad y la ubma dbda del siglo, corn
linea basepara la planeaah y lamstrucabnde infraestructuramtera

* Artiwlar la pdilica nacional para el desanollo sustentaMe de danos y castas con el Weamiento de capacidades
nacionales M ealambo dim&co.
  Fmentarsinergias entreel sectorturistico,pesquero, hidnimy el %sternaNacionalde Protecdh CMJ.
  lnducrrcnteriosde diseiioambsntalentodos10sambii de planeacibndel desamib wbano

4  lncorporar el enfoque de manejo de cuencas hldrogrhfkas en las actiones de protmdn y aprwedtamento de sewm0s
ambientales deareas pen~rbana~wales y

  Cksefiar s k e w descenbrrlizados de wminisho de mrgia a esmla local.
La construmon de mpaadades de adaptacldn, frente al carribto didbco re were de la integracicin y coordrnaCiin de
disdplinas, inshtucianes y grupos de expertos, y adem&, demanda diseijar polkcas p u b l i que consideren las siguientes
lineasde acd-n:



                                                     alagestiixldel rieagofrente aamenazashidrometewobgims,para

                                                       antetos impactosdelavanabilidad dm&ica,m oplataforrna
                                                       nfrentea los& c b delcambiidmfitico.
                        oporbunidadesparalaamergencia&eesfuenolsintersectoriales(transversalidad).
              DiseiiareinplementarUIP~ogramade W a c i b n deiClirnacornpartedeVISiitemaNumlde Informaah

                                  miento Edbg~coy Territorialminshmnto prevwttiwh t ea 10simpectosprevkbles

           6) Rwisarlaspditicasy prioridadesdeaslgnachdelgasto publico paraenfatizar laprevenciinr.
           7) Promoveracclonesde reduocihdeladnerabilidad. dminudh delriesgoy generacih deestrategiasde
           adqtacifjn en fos planes dedesamfb regtonal, eQtatal y municipal.
           8) Plomomrel us0de seguosCWIK)inshmentos de&sm&                de lavulnerabilidendiferentessectores.

           9) Disefjaarunayestrategia dewynimdbn y e d u W h qued,funda 10s rewltadosdela6 invesfgactones,wnmiucre
           a lameQdconsoldesu parbclpaacrcineneldiseiiode amnes prevenbvasy correct~vas.
           10)P m r lafomaaon de r w m krmanosenmeteomlogia operatrvay prwbirstim.




                                                             41

La instrumentaclh de las lineas de a&
exlstentes en dwersas reglones del pais M eparalala
prepararsea tiempo paraenfrentarel carnblodimstroofuturo
                                               a   van&@datin
                                                     ada      &matrca ptesenle, sin0 tamben para que la soaedad pueda
                                                                 m, d o es tmpwndibIe.para fortalecer las estrategias


ESNDIOSEINVESTlGAClONES PRIORfTARIASPARAENFREHTARELPROBLEW
A fin de fortalecer la toma de declslones y la krrmuiacdn de pdibcas de respuesta ante el cambio dirnatm, la pcesente
Estrategia ldenttlica I ' m s de plvesilgaah y generaah de mrnrento para la mltrgacibn y la adaptaclirn, entre las que
destacan




         esmlas.
           Memnjsmosdeartiadacih entrefss accionesde reconversiirnp             y elotdenamienbe-nx,    a diferentes

         * Cuan'bficacbndeemisionesdeitxido flitroMIbajodiferentescmdiionesde mpagrkola.
         * EvaluaciiKIdel efedo de la k b mdecansew&        en laemisii deGO,.
         Ganaderip:
           ldentifimciirnde prediosdepastore0susceptiblesde rehabihtarsepor diferentesttjmicas

         serniinhsivas,y delfawnto del ManejoHolisbcodelarewrsos.
         * Posibilidadesde teesbucturaciirnde laganaderiaextmiva a pariirdelestablecirnientade Ntasde p a s h

         * Posibiliadesde r e m & desistwnasganaderosen silvopadoriles.




                                                           42

* EvaluaclcindelpotenCialde desardkrde localidadespeqoeibsbajoaiterjosdesuslentabilidad,autosufiuMa,
cogene&n,     cooperaabnenredes y otrasopcfonesque aumenlenla mpaadaddaptabva dedldtntosgrupossma




                                                 43

                                                                        a deerwgiasreoovables.


                                                          enexlracckk ytransporte derecursoshidms.
                                                   encawshabitacihy d i menrehhconeliniao ternprano




                              planesdeachracjcmendudpitblikaa parlirde skternasde a l e temprana.
                                   ramasdevi@mia y cmtdde enfermedadesdetransmisinvedonal.



                        POSICIONAMIENTOGENERAL DE MEUCO EN RELACION CON ELREGIMEN
                                 INTERNACIONALDEATENCIONALCAMBIOCLIMATIC0
Relevancia del problema

       9    cambiod i m a h inducxlo rel incremento en laaWsfera delasconcentraciones degasesde efedo invemadero
       iGEI) constrtuye,junto conla Gradacdn de ecoststemasy La
         ascendente en el slgbXXI y unode los rnayoresdesafiosgb alesqueenfrenta la hurnarudad.
                                                                   g"rdidade bicdiversidad,el probbrnaarnkental nds


       de mittgaah y desarrdlar capaadadesde adaptacibnantesus impadosadversos pevisibles.
       * El mnbod i m a h es un poblerna de segundad estrategim,cuya s o l d n exigemovillzaresfuenossin ptecedentes

        *Adaptacibny mibgmh son estrategias igualrnente necesarias;nrngunadeellas puedeir en detriment0de la otra
         La inaccijn en el ppsente elevara exponencialrnentelacostosde adaplacrtnen el futuro,ademis de limitarelalcance
       de laadapM(xr posible.

         Porsus alcances socio-eoOniKnlcos,politicosy culuales, la mitigacibndd carnbiodirrdtico,asicomolaadaptaciin
       al rnisrno.sdo se pueden lanteardesde el masaltonivel del poderqecutivo. rnediante procesosde ,decisdnwda
       vez nxisamb~ciosoS,quePenbanque invducrar a los dernaspoderesy ordenesde ~0biem0,y a las instanciasde la
       sociedadcivil

Cooperaci6n internscionrly eafuenoa nscionalea

         ElrQmen,internadonal detx?refwzarsemediantemerdos politicosdel ndsalto nivelque invducrena lapaisescon
        mayoresernsimes

          La actualdtvisdnentre'Anexo IDy 'no-Anexo I. bene que evducionarhamunadiferenaadb rrdsajustadaala realidad
        del rnundoactual.

        * Wxim,*be realizar su M o r esfuerzo para fomenlar .de marpa equilibradatanto la mitigacibncomo la adaptacibn
        La m a m ndeotros nodebe sei pretext0parala inamn propia.
Amenazar y oportunidsdes
          El camb~odirnab implicaunaBranarnenaza per0tambdn una oportulidadparaimpulw la transickjn haaa d desarrollo
        sostentable

          Elandisisea$rnico delos'CoStE de hccdn' resub degranutilidadpararevlsarlas pdibmspublmsvigentes,
        tantoa nrvelnaclonalcomo mtemaaonal.




                                                           44

fnstnrrnentoajuridicor intemaciontles
         * Mmco apoyasm resewas10s insbumentospridnxrsnegociadosmutblateralmentehasfaahora para enfrentar el mmbiodimi&co

         paraVIsyndofincdo decomprormso,ye? su caw,tarnMn estariadispuestoaconsiderar lasysbtykapacta&
           Mmco e& abarto a la posibilidadde perfeccrcvlarelProtocol0de Kmtoy m d a r ks modalldadesquemvengan
         del Protoco de     to por otro instrumento n\asambmso quepudleraobtenerunmnsensotcdavia masarnpb enel
         marc0multilateral

           Mmco estiidispuestoaSurnarsea cnmatr/as perdaleso arbregonalesaempreque o p m en formacomplementana
         y nosustitubvade losacuerdosrnultdalerateshoyvlgentes
Haciale adopion deobjetjvoade largo pkuo
         * Mexlcoestic dispuestoa parkaparenla adopcKinconjunta de unao vanas metasglobales de I       plazo,que pudieran
         ser de inddemdicabva,nownculante, proonentadwasparalaa&n         colectiva En parttcular,yTndiend0 a la
         formubclhdelM 2 delaConvenahM a wdelasNaaonesUmdassobre CambioClrrrdtico,podria asumr que las
         concentrrrdonesde GEI dhrianen pnnclpoestablizarse a mveles nowpenores a los 550 ppmdeCO, equivalente
Cwatbnes de equidad
           Mmco Mha reaxloadoni remcerd .dembos dtferenaales adquindos" permanentessobre kbenes comunes
         emhr per d p halmesque 1osotros
         omismderedx,ambientales aSOctadOSa laa W e r a global, yh&ne
           Io6servmos                                                    quetodos 10s habrtantesdel aneta benenel
                           ysufructodee m banesy selvlctos D      deo h modo, ningun paisbenedere& inherentea

           Nuestropaisfavoreceunprocesode "mnvergma flexable"de ridesperdptadeemisdn de gaws de efecto invernadero,
         adecuhddo a lasdiversasarcunstanclasnaclonales,comopnrmptorector de unaewluub delargophzo
         del *gimen de atertuhalcambdirrdbco
Evolucionde bscomprunkoade rnitigadndelcarnbio Coimatico: NpCiaunMimen Post-2012

                            c e                                         &adas     enla C o n v d n Marc0de lasNaaones

         de lospaws desarrolladcs (Anew I),asicomode unaprogreswaa m p l mde laparhclpacwndeaquellosque
         Unidass+re CambloCimatrcoy enel Protocdode Noto~ e v o l m n a ren, elsenbdo
           k c o~eco~oquelaestdum yeldancedelasObC                                                 profundaarioscompmmlsos
         hoy,como MLwco,se encuentranendesarrollo

         formasdempromsoy debempos,sobre basesdeequidad
           Ladrfetenctaahde responsabiltdades.recunocida por losinstrumentoswgentes,debera incluirunadiferencmbn de

         * Wmco conadera que la poaMearnpllauhvoluntanadd rQimen demprormsos de& seigradual y basars8en un
         proceso de fortaleumientode lascapacldadesparamedir y monitorearlas m s i m s de GEI de losdierentes sectores,
         rdenttfimroportunidadesde rmbgacdny desanollarproyectosde reducuhde emwones
         laWmco pianteaque    10quecuenta endefinitrvaes la real&    deamnes efec6vasde mitrgaabn,SB basenonoen
            asunctonde compromisesjuridlcamentewncubntes

           Enel marc0deldiseAode un kgimenpost-20t2,la revrslhde bsobligacronesdepaisesendesarrollo avanzados,
         (XKRO  M c o , podriabasarseenconduones como lasstguimtes

                   adopubvoluntanadepohcasy medldas raeldesamlbsustentablequepresentaranco-beneficlosprevlslbles
                   1 Enla niedrdade sus ca acidadesactuak, &os paisesmovrkzarianesfuarzosde mlgaacin sobre bbasede la
                   entkmnos dereduamndeemmnesde           El
                   2 Laspdibmsy medidasadoptadaspodrianSH metode revsidny monitoreopor partede instamas internawnales
                   (`pledge 8revid)

                   3 Enel mawdelaspdibcasy medidasadoptadas, se podrianawmir mdlmtwnente metasatantitatwasdeemls~xles,
                   ya Seanabsdutas o relahas mkrminosde intenstdadde e m i m ' por unidadde producto. para algunos
                   sectoreso subsectoresecOnlrrnicosoalgunosentestemtonales subnaclonalesqueen suconjunto representenuna
                   partesgnmcabvade lasemislonesde GEIdel pais (porejemplo,m omirumo25%de lase m i ~ toldes)     m




                                                                 45

                  4 Loso~mpmlsosvoluntanos         se a m a nnocompmeterhen ningb MSO          elderechob L maldesarrdlo
                  y, enparbcular,laaspiracdnde %mar unm u m oene@hco adecuedoa Iss necesidadesnosupeifluasde la
                  pobbabn
                  5 El r6gimeninterriaclonaldtspondride elementoso rriecamsnosdecooperaclliny estido para incrementary
                  complementarlosesfuerzosde mibgaahpar partede estospaises

                  rungunbpode penalizaab.1por poslMes rwmplimienbs pw-l&i?targets")
                  6 Laadopbn vduntanade pdibcasy medidasde mrtrgaclcin metasatanbficables asociadasno impllcath

                  7 Elsokecurnphmientode metaspodriadar ongena unaoolomcdnde bonosde carbon0enel memdoglobal,
                  encondcmes acordadas

        inverna mseria betapafinal de unp r o m`peso ap a dquemprenda fases intermedias,necesatrasparala
          Laa d y de metas wanbtahvasvlnculantes relahasat oonjuntode lasemsones nacmnalesde gases de efecto
        consdidacdnyla evoluabndeloscompmisos delpais
El MecanisrnoparaunDesarrolloLirnpio(MDL)

        demercadoparaimpulsarenforma sostmda1%
          M o o favom e4 desarrolfode UImercadoglobal de bwwsde carbonoy en
                                                      actradix% demtigaahy r x c aa mvelglobal Ioscostosde
                                                                                    neralel u1i0 intenswode mecanrsmos
        cumplimwnto

        skrsacostosde 5e propanerncrementarelEjodetramtach de pro
        Rmnoce elpapelp ~ m rque hadesem iiadoalrespectoel MDLdel protocdode lootoy parapotmar
                                   o
             benefrcos
                      tranmih, otorgarfaalidades realesparalospro&&       osspequeiiaesmla.equilibrarla
                                                                             revisarkrscritenosde admdidad, ababr
                                                                                                        diStnbucton
        temahbmy geopolibca de lo5pmyecbs,entre otras
        * El MDLdeberi mantener su actual integraldadamblental. complementindosemesquems m L ambrcrosoaque,
        trascendiendolosproyectosaidados.invducrenprogramaso sectoresproducbvoscompletc#iy amplienlaescalade
        lacooperaah i n t m o n d

Nuevoa instrumentoade wopmci6n internacimal
          Elrkgimenpt-2012 demmbiodmihd e r $ induiresquemasdecooperaah intemacmalrn&samblclosos,que
        trasclendandabcancede lospro ctws aisbdosy pronnievanprogramasnaaonalesde reduwho programaspor
        ramasproducbvaso s&es        deE-ornia

        todas bseconomks, empezandoporlas de loapakesindustrialuadosen losque m eunaresponsabildadhlstbnca
          Laestabllzacthde COllCenfiaGIOnesde GEIa un nivdadecuadoexigeuna r;iplday progresivades-carbonrzaahde
        aasnulada

          Tambh neceatantranskmnarselos p~ocesos oduchs enloa pais& w1desarrolbemqentes, cuyaseconornias
        &en presentarnatablesWas decmmiento !%dlGhospaisesla brechaintaalentreunrazonableesfuerzo proploy
        laprofundidadde lastransfmmes rtecesansssirlose podkm            r mediantenuevosinstrumentasde mperaclirn
        degran &a      y asoaadosa es
        entrelospaisesindustnallzados          os kndwanosde estosn w o s insirumentos,cw vlnculacdncon
                                               finmros aproplados Elesfuenototalde mtigaabnphiasicorn arbrse Lmer~ados
        globalesde bonosdemrbonodeberipreservarla lntegrtdadambientaldelr&imen dm&~coemergente

        fides, y q dpartetendra que apoyarseen mecan~smosde cooperaah internacionalparaasegurarsuvlabilldad
          EsMpor determlnarse q& partede lasp o l i hy medidasmenuonadasenesta EstrategiapodracoSaearseconfondos




                                                           46

Comisidn lntersecretarial de Cambio Climitico                    Consejo Consultivode Cambio ClimStico

M,C. uan Rafael Ehrira Quesada                                   Dr. Mario Molina PaYquel
Titular de ladeSecretaria de MedioAmbiente y Recursor
Presidente      la ComisiBn                                      Presidentedel Consejo

Naturales                                                        Dr. Carkrs Cay Garcia
                                                                 Secretario del Consejo
1ng.Alberto CdrdenasJimCnes
Titular de la SecretariadeAgricultura, Ganaderia, Desarrolk,     Mtro. Gustavo Ahnis Ortega
Rural, Pescay Alimentacidrn                                      Dr. Francisco Bards De Castro

Titular de la Secretariade Comunicaciones y Transportes
Dr. LuisTGllez Kuenzler
                                                                 Ing. Miguel B e d e t t o Alexanderson

Dr. EduardoSojo Gana AIdape                                      Dra. Cecilia Code
Titular de la Secretariade Economia
                                                                 Dr. EdmundodeAlba Alcaraz
Titular de la Secretariade Desarrollo Social
Mtra. Beatriz Zavala Peniche
                                                                 Dr. Bernardusde Jong

Dra. teor ina Kessel Martines                                    Dr.Jorge Etchevers
Titular de% Secretariade Energia
                                                                 Ing. Lorenro tonzilez-merla
Emb. Patricia Espincvsa Cantellano
Titular de la Secretariade Relaciones Exteriores                 Dr. Boris Craizbord

Dr. FernandoTudela Abad                                          Ing. JuanJo& Cuerra Abud
Presidente Suplente de la Comisicin
Subsecretario de Planeacidny Politica Ambiental, SEMARNAT        Ing. Miguel Ladr6nde Cuevara

lng. MiguelAngel Cervantes Sinchez                               Dr.Alfonso Larqu6 Saavedra
SecretarioT4cnico de la Comisih, Director GeneralAdjunto
para Proyectosde Cambio Climitko, SEMARNAT                       Ing.JaimeLomeiin Guillhn

                                                                 Dr.Victor Magaiia Rueda

                                                                 Ing. Tirso Martinez Angkben
CICC, 2007. Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climitico.
                                                                 Dr. Rafael Martinez Blanco
Comisidn lntersecretarial de Cambio Climitico, SEWRNAT.
Mbico.                                                           Ing. Carlos Mena 3rito

Compilacidny edlcidn a cargo del                                 Ing. Fernando Rodriguez Camacho

SecretariadoThcnico:                                             Dra. Patricia Romero Lankao

Ing. Miguel CervantesSinchez         Dra. Rosaba Landa Ordaz     Ing. CarlosSandwal Oivera

Dr. Germdn Conzilez Dlvila           Dra. Leticia Ozawa Meida    Ing.Alejadro %sa Reyes

Lic. Lucrecia Martin Chkez           Dr.Antony ChallengerJones


Secretaria de MedioAmbiente y Recursos Naturales
Subsecretaria de Planeaciciny PoliticaAmbiental
3bd.Adolfo Ruiz Cortines420 Col. Jardinesen la Montaiia,
C.P. 1410,Tlalpan, Mbico, 0.8:
lmpreso en Mbico, Maya 2007.




                                                     47

Letter of DevelopmentPolicy(Englishtranslation)

                                                            OFFICEOF THE SECRETARY
                                                       OFFICIALLETTERNUMBER00353
                                                         MEXICOCITY, MARCH07,2008


[OFFICIALSEAL OFTHE MEXICANGOVERNMENT]
SECRETARIATOFENVIRONMENTAND NATURALRESOURCES


ROBERT ZOELLICK
         B.
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR
RECONSTRUCTION DEVELOPMENT
                  AND




The Government of President Felipe Calderon Hinojosa has been clear and emphatic in
its commitment to promote the economic growth and well-being of the Mexican people,
while also assuming a responsible approach toward reducing the growth of greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions and addressing the challenges of adaptation to climate change.

Despite our country's relatively low emission of GHG, in total and per inhabitant, in
comparison to countries with similar or greater economic development, the Federal
Government's policy has undertaken significant actions to address climate change, in
accordance with the principle of iicommon but differentiated responsibilities." It has also
stressed the need for international support in order to increase its capacities for
mitigating and adapting to climate change.

Mexico is a country that is highly vulnerable to climate change, and various studies
forecast substantial impacts that could affect our development processes. There are
several zones-such    as the region of the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea-that
tend to be affected by extreme hydro-meteorological phenomena, such as hurricanes
and floods, whose intensity could intensify as a result of climate change.

To address this situation in a cross-cutting manner and to bring together the efforts of
various State Secretariats, the Inter-Secretarial Climate Change Commission (CICC
[Spanish acronym]) was created. President Calderon presented, on May 25, 2007, The
National Climate Change Sfrafegy, a copy of which is attached, which establishes,
among others, the commitment to prepare a Special Climate Change Program that will
form part of the set of programs stemming from the 2007-2012 National Development
Plan. This Program is currently in its final phase of preparation.

In this context, we consider the support of the World Bank to be of great importance,
through a Climate Change Development Policy Loan, in order to carry out the
objectives of the abovementioned Strategy.




                                             48

This new collaboration between the World Bank and the Government of Mexico,
including aspects of technical and financial assistance, will make it possible to
strengthen our institutional capacities for designing and executing policies that will allow
us to address this great global problem and will contribute to placing Mexico in the
position of being a particularly proactive developing country with regard to climate
change.

Thanking you for your attention to this initiative, I send you a cordial greeting.



THE SECRETARY

[Signed]

Ing. Juan Rafael Elvira Quesada


C.C.P. Agustin Carstens Carstens. Secretary of Finance and Public Credit.
       Fernando Tudela. Under-Secretary of Planning and Environmental Policy




                                                     49

       Executive Summary of 2007 National Strategy on Climate Change


The presentdocumentreflectstheMexicanG0vemment"scommitmentto climatechangemitigationandadaptation,andits
recognltionof climatechangeas one of the major challengescurrently faced by humankind

  The NatronalStrategyon Climate Change("ENACC", for rts acronym in Spanish)identifiesspeufic measuresfor mrtiga-
tion, with estimatesof their potentialfor emlsslons reductions Et also proposesa suite of researchobjectivesas a tool for
layingout moreprecisemitigationtargets and outlines nationalrequirementsfor capacity butldingfor adaptationto climate
change While the scopeof the ENACC encompassesonly those measueswithin the competenceof the Federal Govern
ment, it neverthelesscontributesto a nationwide and inclusiveprocessof consensusbuildingwhichwit1
--  Identityopportunihesfor mitigationmeasuresand emissionsreductions
    Acknowledge the vulnerability of drverse economic and social sectors and geographic regionsto climate change, and
-   take measuresto develop the necessary nationaland local-levelcapacrty for responseand adaptahon

    Contribute to the development of strategies, prionties and policies for the Special Programme on Climate Change
    ("PECC",for rts Spanishacronym),which will becomean integralpartof the NattonalDevelopmentPlan,2007-2012



OPPORTUNITIESFOR GREENHOUSEGAS EMISSIONSMITIGATION
Thegeneralobjectiveof greenhousegas (GHG)emissionsmitlgationisthe progresswedecouplingof increasedemissions
from economic growth Inthe presentStrategy,Sectoral opportunities and specific mitigationtargets (within the timeframe
of the presentAdministration)are identtTledIntwo majorareas A) EnergyGenerationand Use,and6)VegetationandLand
Use All of these opportunitiesand targetswill befurther refinedinthe forthcoming PECC.

A) ENERGY GENERATIONAND USE
The future development of the energy market in Mexico has the potential to generate opportunitiesfor measures which,
besides reducing GHG emissions, allow the provision of a cleaner, more sustainable, efficient and competitive energy
supply matrix The foliowbngtable providesan overviewof the principalopportunitiesfor emissionsreductionsbasedon a
prospedrve analysis to the year 2014




                                                          50

Enerav efficrencv
    " I

Stanclamana programmclsof uie Continue                                                            24.0
Nahonal Gommhion for Energy standams
ConsetvattonCCONAP)
                                                                                                   5.9




                               increasePEMEX9 f?n@fg                                               2.7
           e inreftnerses
Fugttrve mtssions of methane Reduce fugg                                                          2 4
W,)                            pr'oductkm,
                               emaencyof
                                                                                                 " 1 .
Power genemtion and distribution (Federal Electricity Commission and Centrai Light and Power)
Power      transmisson    and *increasette,                                                        6 0
diSMtPutlW                     irnesBY 294.                                                           "_




InEfustrialsector



Renewabfeenergy




                                                                                                   2.a




                                                      51

tn order to devetcapttaese mrtrgah~sfto p ~ ~ ~ u npublictpolicies shouldbe gutdedb) the follovsmng prtotitres
                                                    i ~ e ~ ~




                                                           52

C  ~   ~    s ofe forestaecaqsCerns in Increase coverage of Protected Areas by
                   ~       ~  ~  ~                                                         500-z.000
~ ~ ~ ~Areas ~ e d
          e c                                           hectares per year to accumulate
                                      ~~~~~~~

                                      3 million hectares in the National Prolected
                                      Areas                   {'SINAP", fat the Spanish
                                                 ~~~~~~~


                                      acranvmi




Forest health




                                                             53

                                     4.2




E

                                    ..
           of West fires f            NA
             9

conservationb l l y                  0 9

             II

itvestock prcductron




                              54

   ~ddit~ona~ measu~eswhich contrtbutelo GHG en11sssonsreductronsand buildcapacaty for csamate changeadaptation are
i ~ ~ om the SttaredAgendasdfar ~ ~ i ~ s ~ ~~nvironmen~alPoky z~'h~ctJ
                 ~ ~ ~ ~ e                                    e a n ~ i n ~                  SEBP~ARNAT drawing up %nconjurtc-
                                                                                                           is
iionwith other FederalGovernmentinrntstrresand agencres

  This Strategy identifrelsthe ~ * l ~ o ~prrol-itiesfor developing ~ ~ t r ~ a toi opn~ ~ ~ u nknt public pcalxcy relatedto iatid use,
                                           ~ n g                                                    ~ ~ e s
[andusechange,forestry and agnculturalactivities




   Consolidation or %heproposed measws for ~ i ~ r g and~ theoeffectwe a p ~ ~ ~ cand~ scape of the prcqrammes,
                                                                 a     ~    ~                       a    i o ~
t ~ ~ h n o lchangesand investmentsset okik rnthis Strategyrequirecofls~~e~able
                ~ ~ c a ~                                                                   resowces,Bhichare inturia dependent
upon important ecanomsc grot+& and significant changes b national policies and b ~ d g e t ~Specific goals and the
                                                                                                             f l ~
necessaryresourcesto accomplishthem, will be clearly se$.out $0the Special ~ f ~ ~ on GBirrsate Changee
                                                                                                     ~ ~ n ~ m




 PRQCRESSIVE V A L ~ A O f~CARBON IN THE N A ~ I ~ E A L
                                            ~        U ~                                        ~               ~             U         ~    ~
 hlrtigatsonof climate change through actions for reducing GHG emissmns will not be sustainabk without clear ec~nomic
signals to promote them Hawever tlze socia4 costs resultingTram emgssions produced by different economic agents can
become ecanoimc ~          ~     ~ throirgh conperahon nagreenierits~wrttt~external acfors having ~
                                       ~       ~      u           ~                     e    ~                            ~emissions~      ~   ~
 reductionstargets in the context of the i ~ t ~ ~ n ~ ~ i o n
                                                         regimeaonl climate change

   For P?lcxico,the e~tablish~~en~intepmted
                                   of an                        cheme for en~issionstrading can be aspired ta in the ntedium
term, througha realistic,step bystep p~ocessinvo                 ~engtt?e~ln~  of nationalcapacibes The pr!nclpl%of progressive
actionemployedmthis Strategy sets out the possr                 riasing by phasesboththe rssimberof parbcapatl
thevalueof the carbonbeingtraded T$leschemewoutdoperatewith controlledcaftmnpnces,set tow, initlat
 be subject to pe~iodicrevie@until reaching eqnrtibnum wtth ~ n ~ e r n a ~market~prkces The phased depl
                                                                                     i ~ n l
schemewouldallow for its adap'bike~ a ~ a ~ eto~takenadvantageof ~ p ~ o ~ uanstngfrom rnternatian
                                                           e   t                              n ~ ~ ~ e s
on the climate changeregime,thereby algowingoptrmum dividendsfar p r ~ m o ~cleanerd i ~ e l o p ~ ~ e ~ ~
                                                                                           i n ~




                                                               55

   This progressivestrategy, to be inibatedunderthe presenarAdminis$atron, wiil not only redircefhe costs of complysngwith
ernissionsreductionslargeis, butwiil also acceleratethe ~ecognitionof carbonvalues wathrn the economy as a %bok


~           U        ~ FOR~~ A T~I ~ ~~AAALP TTA T I~U ~
                                                   ~                             ~        ~         ~
I,fexicrs's g e ~ r a ~ h ~ ~ o p ~ g r and hhydrology, contsrtsirte -aiong ivsth other factors- Bo increase the country's
                        climate,              ~ ~   y
vulnerabiltty to h y d r ~ m e ~ e ~ ~ oevents~which ~
                                         ~ r s i ~ a can leadto naturaldisasters The occurrence and eftecrsof such events
     be aggravated by climatechange,so v ~ i ~ e r a t smust~be reducedby promotinga ceidtlureof disaster preventionin all
                                                          i t ~
aspects of economicand socpak ~ ~ v ~ ~ o ~ ~ e n t

   Capacity Isuildrng for adaptation requires developing the abilities of different stakeholders to adjust $0, and cope wtth,
climate change -greater climate ~anabrfiiyand extreme weather everits-, in order to attenuate potentia! damage By
binildrngcapacity for a d ~ p ~ ? itooclimate change,the v ~ ~ n e ~olatfte country~can be reducedand the sustainability 07
                                      n                                   ~ i ~ t
eccmmic development can be betterensured

   The areas identrlisd inthis Strategyfor capacirj beiik%q for adaptationare h } ~ ~ r ~ ~ e riskeand ~ o ~resource ~ l
                                                                                                     ~     o water ~ ~ i
~     ~    ~   ~b a~ o~ deand~~~ ~e~i ~v~ ~~t~~sewices et'armratg.acoasts, human ~ e ~ l e ~ ~and~energy generation aiid
                               r                  ~ ~n ~      n ~     ~                           e    t s ,
use Mexico's principal reqrrifersaentsfar adoptirrgto climate change are to

    Presewe and strengthenfiatural buFefenngfunctionswithin watersheds

    Designa prqmmme ~          ~    ~FIE naturalrechargmg~of aquifers incon~~nctkon tReNatkonalProtectedAreas System
                                         o    ~   i   n                             with

    Increase KnowBedgean@deploymentof ~ n f ~ r ~ excliange
                                                          a t i ~ r ~and early

    A@&     water treatment b&mology in tine tvtth changing climatic conditions

e   Renew and streimgthenthe ~ ~ p ~ e ~of naturalresource ananage men^ mstmrnentssuchas seasortat bans marine
                                                   ~ n ~ ~ ~ i o
    and coastal ProtectedAreas and payment for e ~ v i r o t ~ ~ e~n~ a~l~ r o l oservices,Jso~as to adapt them to changing
                                                                                    ~ i c a
    climatrc conditnons




                                                               56

   Establish bittlogicaf chlrridors&%%?en ProtectedAYeas, 2nd evaluatethe needBo 8djt1sfthe current~ o ~ n d a rofethese
                                                                                                                      ~ s
    and of Pnarrtk Regionsfor Gonse~a~~on,      to improvethe adaptive capacitiesof ecosystemsand species
   Evaluate the experienceacquired by vulnerablegroups inthe iltce of climatevambikty and c%esigna~ap~ation            policies
    basedora these evalu~~iot~s
    reserve r,.texsmna ~ r u ~ i ~ i v einr ~situtthrough ~ r o ~ ~ pint& ~~mep1se~esby~~the
                                               ~ y                        a ~                 l     d F,?
    and R13tUraQ Resources        AT^ andthe MinistryofAgricuBtkise Rural~e~~~opFbsheriesnand Fod          ~ ~ e    t ,
    (3AGARPA.J.


   Strengthene ~ i d e ~ ~ ~ ~ o systemsl
                                  monitoring~ i ~
    Planfor an increaseinmeansea lev&[of 36 unbetweennoit and the end adt$tecentkrky,as a baseline Tor i n ~ r a ~ ~ r ~ i ~ ~ r e
    ~ e ~ e ~ u pin~ccsastaf~ zones
                       e f     t

   Articulatethe nationalpolicylormarineandcoastalsustainabled e ~ e l ~ p&I&ethe~s i ~ ~ n ~ ~ of~nsticsnafncapacrties
                                                                                   ~    n                t    ~ n i  g
    for ab~pbngto climate change

    Pmanctc synergies betweenthe tounsm, fishislg andwater sectors, and wth the ~ a ~ ~ oSystemfor Crvrl Protection.
                                                                                                 f f a l

    lnclurlea ~ ~ r ue~t ~~v~i ~a~~n eidesign n ~ a
                                         ~ ~ ~ cntesral in at1 aspects of urban plannngand development

    tnclodethe vYatershed~      a ~ ~approachtn~scheniesfare t ~ v i ~ c sservicesprotectionanddisasterpreventton
                                            g e          e ~ ~                        ~ ~ ~ ~ t ~ l
    tn pefi-urbanand ~ira!areas.

    Designand bklM decentralised,small-scale, iocalenerg) supply systenro




  ~ ~ p l e ~ e nthesegpriafities for atlaptation IS ~ n ~ i  ~ ~fort ~
                   ~ i n                                               s ts~ae r~~~ ~ehexistinggcapacities to deal with climate
                                                                                       e ~ i n
vartabrlity in diRexent regions nB the country, and to help society as a whole to prepare in 311 ~           ~ way to~addresso    ~  ~
c1irnate change




                                                               57

RESEARCH PRIQRlTlES TO ADDRESS THE PROBLEM
Inorderto~reng~~en   deasimmakingandpoiicyresponseplanningto tackleclimatechange,the presentStrategy!den
Me follawii-rgprionttesfor researchand knowledgecreation in tbe Eeldsof ~ i and ai ~~ ~ ~~ ~~
                                                                            ~                        ~! 4~ ~~ o ~




                                                        58

59

   .   AS%% the impacts of art increase 111water constiniplionanu conducticnor rransportalicn on erirryy demana

   +   Assess me impxtsonnou~enold            andbusinessenergy demandafinng troll ?neeariier onsetandMertermination
       of me not season
   Human health
  -.   Assess the effects of clinute ctiariycon the titaltn ut d:fferent s ~ c ~g:ot~ps
                                                                                  a i

   .   bse informationfromepaemioiogicai esrty warningsystemstu srrengthenactionpronson ptiblichealtn
       Streogthenprogrsmrnesfor moni:wing ana cantfoi of vecrof-l)orn~5isea%?s



OUTLINE OF MEXICO'S OVERALL POSITION IN RELATIONTO THE I ~ T E R ~ A ~ I ~ ~ A L
CLIMATE CHANGE REGIME

Probkm relevance
   Climate change, caused by an increase in the a [ n ~ o ~ ~ ~concent~a~~~ns represents, along with ecosystem
                                                                       e r i c       of GHG
   d e ~ ~ a ~andt ~~ ~ no d ~lass
                 a                    v ethe majar~etiviro~t~~n~atproblen-aof the XXI Century ani3 one of the inost urgent
                                               ~ ~ i     ~ ~
   global chattengesfaced by h u m

   CBrmate change is a prob[emof strategic security, the solution or nhich demand$u n p r e ~ e ~ e ~ ~ ~ e for mitigation
                                                                                                         efforts d
   and capacity buildingfor adaptation,inthe light or the predictableadversesmpncts.
   ~ d a ~ ~ aandi omitigation are eqimify rmportant and necessary strategres; neither of them can k empieyed to the
                ~      n
   detrimentof the other

   Inaction today will e x ~ ~ n e n ~ raisel ~the costs of a ~ ~ ~ fn~the rumre, nso reaucang the potential scope of ZbaB
                                          i a l                               a ~ o
   adaptation

   Gtventlieir s o ~ i o - e  ~ ~ opasirticat.and cirftufaiimplications,ineasuresfor ~ i ~ i ~anda~di a~~n~ ~ tclimatechange
                                    t ~ ~ i c ,                                                a            to i o ~
   will Increasinglyfeature in the decision making pmcesses at the highestlevels, rnvetving the executive and legislative
   pavers. shte and ~ u i ~ i go~er~~rnei~t$,and civil society
                                    i ~ ~ l

I  n    r   ~ coopenffan and narionaf ~Rords ~
                 ~     ~    ~   ~     ~     o    ~    ~
*  The internationalregime shritild be s ~ r e ~ ~thraiigh~ ~ d agreements at tRe highest level that I t w o k mapr
                                                            ~ h e politrcol
   emittercountries

   The current division beAeen *Annex 1'*            and "Nan-Annex I" countnes has to move towards a tifore realistic
   ~ t ~ ~ ~ e ~ t r a t ~ o n

*  Mexicowit! employevery e%oRto ~ m p l meastiresto foster ~~~~1~~~~~~
                                                        ~ ~ e ~ ~                  ana adapfatianIn an equitablemanner.

x  The ai-sactronof others shouid not be an excu3e for one's own inaction

~~~~~~~~~sand ~            ~      ~         ~     ~        ~     ~       /    ~      ~     e     
*  CBzmate change implies a majorthreat but also provides a great opportunty 00 drive the transitiontowards sustarnabfe
   development
   The economicanalysisof the "costsof inactran'is of great value ID revieziving currentpublic policy both at natkomland
   ~ f ~ ~ e ~levels i o n a ~
                   ~ ~




                                                                 60

. Mexico is open to the possibilityof improvingthe Kyoto Protocoland agreeing a convenient framework for a second
  commitment period, and it will also be willing to consider tne agreed substitution of the Kyoto Protocol For a more
  ambitiousinstrumentthat cou[dgain wider consensus in the multilateraC context.
  Mexico is keen to take part in parbal or subreglonalinitiabvesas far as they operate in a complementary, ratherthan
  substitutionalway, with regardto current multilateralagreements.

Towards the adoption of tong rem commitmenis
  Mexicois keento parbcipateinthejoint adoptionof one or more longtermtargets,possiblyof an indicative,non-binding
  nature, attainable through coliective action In particular -and by way of addressing Article 2 of the United Nations
  Framework Conventionon Climate Change- Mexico could agree that GHG concentrationsshould stabilise at levels
  below 550 ppmof CO, equivalent

Equity issues
  Mexico has not and will not acknowledge 'dmerentiated rights" on common goods or on the environmentalsewices
  associatedwith the global atmosphere. and believesthat all the Earth's inhabitantshave the same nght to usethose
  goods and services Inother words, no country has an inherentrrghtto higher per capita emissionsthan others

* Our country favours a process of "flexible convergence" of per caprta levels of GHG emissions, in accordancewith
  differentnationalcircumstances.as a guiding principlefor the long term evolubonof the climate change regime

Evolutionof climatechangemitigationcommitments:towards apost 2012 regime
  Mexicorecognisesthatthestructureandscopeofagreedcommitmentsunderthe UnitedNationsFrameworlcConvenbon
  on ClimateChange andthe KyotoProtocolshoubd evolve, inthe sense that developedcountnes(Annex I)should make
  deeper Commitmentswhile developingcountnes, such as Mexico. progressivelyincreasetheir participabon
  The differentiation of responsabiltties,as acknowledged by current instruments, should inciude the drfferentiatron of
- commitments, interms of type and timeframe,in accordance with the pnncipleof equity

  Mexicoconsidersthatanyvoluntary enlargementofthe commitmentsregimeshouldbegradual, basedontheprogressive
  strengthening of capacities to measure and monitor GHG emissionsfrom different sectors, identify opportunities for
  mitigationand developemissions reductionprojects
  Mexico considers that implementabonof effecbve mitigatlon measures is crucial, irrespective of whether or not they
  denve from adopbng legallybindingcommitments

  Inthe contextof developingthe post-2012 regime, reviewingthe commitments of advanceddevelopingcountrtes. such
  as Mexico, couldbe basedon the followingparameters

  1. Within the bounds of their exisbng capacities,they can undertakemitigationactivities by voluntarily adopbng
      policiesand measureswhich, whileaimedat achievingsustalnabledevelopment,result inpredictableco-beneflts
      intermsof GHG emissionsreducbons
  2 Policies and measures adopted could be subject to review and monitonng by internationalentlties ("pledge&
      review")

  3 In adoptrng said policies and measures, countnes could indicatively agree to quantitative emissions targets
      eitherabsoluteor relative interms of 'emissions intensity"per unit of product.or for a giveneconomic sector of
      subsector; or for given regionsof the country which, when taken together, representa significantshare (at least
      25%) of a nation'stotal GHG emissions.
  4   Voluntary commitmentsshall not underminethe rrght to developmentor the legitmate aspiration to secure an
      energysupply commensuratewith meetrngthe essentral needsof the population

  5 The internationalregime will include mechanismsfor cooperationand incentives to increase and complement
      mitigationefforts undertakenby these countnes.

  6 The voluntary adoption of mitigation policies and measures and their associated quantitative targets will not
      implythe incurrenceof any type of penaltyfor possibleRon-compliance(%o-losetargets")




                                                          61

-  7. Target over-attainmentcould allow for the sale of carboncreditson the global market, underagreed conditions
   The adoption of binding, quantitative emissions reductions targets, relabve to total nationat GHG emissions, would
   be the final phase of a "step by step" process that comprises several intermediatephases as a prerequisite for the
   consolidafionand strengtheningof country commitments

-TheMexico
    CfeanDevelopmentMechanism(CDM)
           favours the development of a global market for carbon credits and, in general, the intensive use of market
-  mechanismsto foster mibgatronactivities in a sustained mannerandto reduce,globaliy,the costsof compliance.
   Mexicorecognizesthe ptoneeringroleMatthe CDM has performedand, in orderto scale-upits benefits,proposesthat
   project processingflow be increased, additionality uiteria be reviewed, transaction costs minimized, real facilities be
   providedfor small scale projects,and that the thematic and geo-political dtstnbutionof projectsattain a better balance
   -amongotherfactors.

   The CDM should maintain its currentenvironmentalintegrity,but shouldalso attempt more ambitious. complementary
   schemeswhich transcendisolated projectsto involveentire programmesor productivesectors, therebyexpanding the
   scale of internationalcooperation

New instrumenrs for fntematfonaf cooperation
   The post-2012regimeshouldencouragemoreambitious internationalcooperationschemes whichtranscendthe scope
-  of isolatedprojectsto promotemitigationprogrammesat a nationallevel or which involveentire economicsectors
   The stabilizationof GHG concentrationsat an adequateleveldemandsthe rapidand progressrvedecarbonizationof all
   economies,beginningwith those industnallzedcountneshavingan histoncallyaccumulatedresponsibility
   Productive processes also need to be transformed in emerging economies with notably high growth rates In such
   countnes. the gap between the reasonableefforts undertaken and the scale of the transformations actually required,
   can only be bndged by new, large-scale cooperation instruments backed by appropriate financial mechanisms As a
   result, the global mitigation effort mll then be shared by industrjalizedcountnes and the beneficiariesof these new
   instruments-which shouldbe linkedto the global marketin carbon credits throughdiscountingrates andother, similar
   schemes, which preservethe environmentalintegrityof the emerging climatic regime
  NOTE It has yet to be determinedwhich of the policiesand measuresoutlined in this Strategy can be implemented
with national public finance, and whtch require implementationin the context of internationalcooperatronmechanisms
that can ensure their feasibility




                                                           62

INTERSECRETARIAL
               COMMISSION CLMATECHANGE
                           ON                            CONSULTATIVECOUNCIL CLMATECHANGE
                                                                            ON

MR.Jum RAFAELELWRAQUESAW                                 DR.MARIOMOLINAPASOUEL,
PRESIDENT
        OF THE COMM~SS~ON,                               PRESIDENTOF THE COUNGIL
MIN~STER THE ENV~RONMENT
       OF                  AND NATURALRESQWCES           DR.CARLOSGAYGmcin,
MR.ALBERT0 ChENASJIMENEZ.                                SECWTARY  OF THECOUNCIL
MINISTER AGRICULTURE,LIVESTOCKPROWGTEON,
       OF                                  RURAL
DEVELOPMENT,FISHER~ES Fooo                               MR.GUSTAVO  A L A NOREM
                                                                            ~
                      AND
                                                         QR. FRANCESCO BARNES CASTRO
                                                                             DE
DR.LUISTLLEZKUENZLER,
MINISTEROF COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSPORT                  MR.MIGUELBENEDETTOALEXA~ERSON

DR.Eoun~w   SOJOGARZA   ALONE,                           DR.CEC~UACONDE
MINISTEROF THE Ecohlorw                                  DR.EDMUNDO   MAL~A ALCARAZ
MRS.BEATRE&VALA PENICHE,
MINISTEROF SOCIALDEVELOPMENT                             DR. BERNARMIS DE 30NG

DR.GEORGINA  KESSELMARTiNEZ,                             DR.JORCEETCHNERS

MINISTEROF ENERGY                                        MR. L~REWO  Gr3NfiLEZ-MERlA

E~~ffisaoo~PATRICIAESPINOSACANTELLANO,                   QR. BORISGRAIZEORD
MINISTEROF FORUGN AFFAIRS,                               MR.JUANJaSEGUERRAABVD
DR.FERNANW   TWEUABAD,
STAND-INPRESIDENTOF THE COMMISSION,                      MR.MIGUELLADRON GUEVARA
                                                                           DE

UNDERSECRETARY  OF PLANNING ENVIRONMENTALPOLICY,
                            AND                          DR.ALFONSOLAROUESAAVEDRA
SEMARNAT
                                                         MR.JAlh6E LohlUiNGUCLLEN
MR.MIGUEL&GEL CERVANTE~SANCHEZ,
TECHNICALSECRETARY  OF THE COMMISSION,                   DR.VECTOR MAGA~ARUEDA

DIRECTORGEM= FOR CUM= CHANGEPROJECTS,SEMARNAT            MR.T~RSOMART~EZANGHEBEN
IcCc,2007.NATKXJAL STRsrEGYON    CLIME CHANGE.            QR.RAFAEL MART~EZ BLANCO
INTERSECRETARIALCOURalSSlON ON CLIMATECHANGE,SEMARNAT,   M ~cARLos BRITO
                                                              .     M~~~
Mmico.
                                                          MR.FERNANDOR0DRiGUE.ZCAMACI-IO

                                                          DR.PATRICIAROMERO LANKAO
COMPILATION EDITION BY THETECHNICALSECRETARIAT
           AND
                                                          MR.CARL5SSANDOVAL OLVERA
MR.M~GUELCERVANTESSANCHEZ         DR.ROSALWA D ORQAZ
                                             ~       A    MR.AlwmeRososA    R~~~
DR.GERMANGON&EZ DAVILA            DR.LETiGlA QZAWAMEIOA
MRS.LUCREC~AMmiNCHAVEZ            MR.ANTONYCHALLENGER


SECRETAR~MED~O
           DE       AMBEME  Y RECURSOS
                                     NATURALES

 UNDERSECRETARYPLANNING EWIRONMENTALPOLICY,
                FOR           AND
 BLVD.ADOLFORvizCORTINES 4209, COL.JAROENES  EN LA Mw&,
C.P 14210, TLALPAN, Mtwco, D.F.
 PRINTEDIN MEXICO.JULY2007.




                                                  63

                           ANNEX 2: GOVERNMENTPOLICY/OvERALL
                            GOVERNMENTDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM

1.      The government o f President Felipe Calderh, now in its second year o f office, has developed a
long term vision o f Mexico for the year 2030, as well as policies for promoting human development in
the current adininistration, which spans the period 2006-2012. The policies have been detailed in the
National Development Plan (NDP).25The government recently presented a national infrastructure plan
that lays out a more detailed work program to address Mexico's infrastructure needs. Below is a very
brief description o fthe National DevelopmentPlan (NDP).

2.      Sustainable Human Development is the overarching theme o f the National Development Plan.
The Plan describes this as: "The purpose o f development consists o f creating an atmosphere inwhich all
can increase their capacity and opportunities can expand for current and future generations."

3.      The government's National Development Plan is based on five pillars:

        Rule of law andpublic safety. This pillar i s based on the fundamental premise that people need
        guarantees o f personal safety and protection o f their property for sustained human development.
        Objectives and strategies in this pillar are organized in areas such as compliance with the law,
        effective and equal access to justice for all, the fight against corruption, drug-trafficking and
        organized crime, and the prevention o f crime and violence. Public opinion polls have consistently
        shown that Mexican society places a highpriority on these issues.

        Economic competitiveness and generation of jobs.          An enhanced level of sustained economic
        growth, at an annual rate o f 5 percent by 2012, and the generation, by 2012, o f at least 800,000
        formal sector jobs annually are the main quantitative targets identified in this pillar o f the plan.
        Inorder to achieve these targets, objectives and strategies in a large number o f areas and sectors,
        including public finance, financial sector, infrastructure, rural development, small and medium
        enterprise and competition policy, are aligned to strengthen the levels o f investment in physical
        capital, increase the level o f human capital and skills, and raise the level o f productivity growth.

        Equality of opportunities. The reduction o f inequalities and the provision o f equal opportunities
        that allow solving the causes o f poverty are the focus o f the administration's social policy. The
        guiding principles o f this policy are: targeting o f resources on programs that have demonstrated
        their effectiveness, extensive use of monitoringand evaluation systems, and the development and
        use o f a unique register o f government sponsored social program beneficiaries. Government
        programs and policies in areas such as poverty reduction, health, education, indigenous people,
        gender equality and vulnerable groups are included inthis pillar.

        Environmental sustainability.       The main initiative in this pillar is to turn the concept of
        environmental sustainability into a transversal element o f public policies and assure that all
        public and private investments are compatible with environmental protection. Objectives and
        strategies are structured in areas such as water, forests, climate change, biodiversity, solid waste
        and transversal environmental sustainability policy instruments.As part o f the development plan,
        Mexico published a comprehensive National Strategy on Climate Change which includes
         greenhouse gas emissions reduction estimates as well as measures to adapt to the impact o f
        climate change. As a larger, natural resource rich emerging market economy, Mexico sees itself
        well placed to take a prominent role in the international debate and cooperation on global
         environment issues.



 25The NDP is available at www.mesidencia.gob.mx

                                                      64

        Effective democracy and responsible foreign affairs.          The last chapter o f the national
        development plan focuses on democracy as an effective system o f government that promotes
        development and well-being o f the population and a foreign affairs policy that leverages
        development opportunities and well-being o f Mexicans living in the country and abroad.
        Consolidation and strengthening o f democracy, modernization o f the political system including
        enhancing more direct citizen involvement, transparency and accountability, as well as the
        promotion o f international trade and investment, the protection o f Mexican migrant workers
        abroad and the contribution o f Mexico in the discussion and construction o f solutions to global
        issues are some o f the prominent themes inthis pillar..

4.      Each chapter or pillar o f the NDP has a list o f numerous objectives and more detailed strategies
for achieving those objectives. The plan represents an ambitious development program that requires
substantial and complementary efforts across the spectrum o f government ministries and agencies along
with the collaborationo f state and local authorities.

5.      The environmental sustainability pillar consists o f nine chapters - water, forests, biodiversity,
environmental justice and management, ecological planning, climate change, solid waste and hazardous
waste, environmental scientific research with social responsibility, and environmental education and
culture. Under the climate change chapter, the National Development Plan's objectives are to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and to develop adaptation measures to face climate change:

        Objective 1- To reduce greenhouse gas emissions:The NDP provides four specific strategies to
        achieve this objective - a) Motivate the use efficient and clean technologies (including
        renewable energy) in energy generation; b) Promote energy efficiency in residential, industrial,
        agricultural and transport uses; c) Motivate the adoption o f international standards on vehicle
        emissions; and d) Foster energy use from waste.

        Objective 2 - Develop adaptation measures to face climate change: The NDP provides four
        specific strategies to achieve this objective: a) Promote the inclusion o f climate change
        adaptation aspects in the planning o f different sectors o f society; b) Develop regional climatic
        scenarios for Mexico; c) Assess the impacts o f and vulnerability and adaptation to Climate
        Change in the different socio-economic sectors and ecologic systems; and d) Promote the
        dissemination o f information on impacts, vulnerability and adaptation measures to Climate
        Change.




                                                      65

                              ANNEX 3: OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX



Mainstreamclimate change          Submission o fthe ThirdNational       Providedthe foundations for
considerations inpublic policy    Communication to the UNFCCC           designing national public policies on
                                                                        climate change inall sectors, and
                                                                        serves as basis for the National
                                                                        Climate Change Strategy and the
                                                                        Special Climate Change Program. It
                                                                        set a common ground for consensus
                                                                        building among public institutions,
                                                                        the private sector andcivil society.

                                  Approval inMay 2007 o f the          o FormalizedMexico's voluntary
                                  National Climate Change Strategy by    commitment to decoupling GHG
                                  the Intersecretarial Commission on     emissions from economic growth in
                                  Climate Change, reinforcing the        the context ofits National
                                  institutional and strategic framework  Development Plan.
                                  inplace                              o Domestic and international
                                                                         recognition for this commitment.
                                                                       o Recognition ofthe country's high
                                                                         vulnerability to climate change and
                                                                         its commitment to initiating
                                                                         measuresto reduce it.

                                  Initiationo f sectoral programs for   Initiationo f the process o f
                                  energy, and environment andnatural    decoupling GHG emissions from
                                  resources (forestry in particular),   economic growth inkey sectors, and
                                  including policy incentives to reduce o f adopting measuresto increase
                                  the carbon intensity ofthe Mexican    resilience.




                                                    66

                                 ANNEX 4: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE

PublicInformationNotice onIMFArticle IVConsultationwith Mexico

 IMFExecutiveBoardConcludes2007 ArticleIVConsultationwith Mexico
 Public InformationNotice (PIN) No. 07/140
 December 13,2007
   PublicInformation Notices (Pins)form part o fthe IMF's efforts to promote transparency o f
   the IMF's views and analysis o f economic developments and policies. With the consent o fthe
   country (or countries) concerned, Pinsare issued after Executive Board discussions of
   Article IV consultations with member countries, o f its surveillance of developments at the
   regional level, o fpost-program monitoring, and o f ex post assessments of member countries
   with longer-term program engagements. PINSare also issued after Executive Board
   discussions o f general policy matters, unless otherwise decided by the Executive Board ina
   particular case. The staff report (use the free Adobe Acrobat Reader to view this pdffile) for
   the 2007 Article IVConsultationwith Mexico is also available.

  On December, 3,2007, the Executive Board o f the InternationalMonetary Fund (IMF) concluded
  the Article IVconsultation with Mexico.'

  Background
  The economic expansion has continued albeit slowed by developments inthe United States.
  Despite some pickup inthe second and thirdquarter, growth is projectedto be close to 3 percent
  for 2007 as a whole. Duringthe last 12 months inflation has been closer to 4 percent, boosted by a
  series o f supply shocks to world food prices, than to the 3 percent target. Wage growth so far has
  not accelerated, and medium-term inflation expectations have been broadly stable-although
  remaining % point above the 3 percent target. Inthat context and citing the need to avoid second-
  round effects and to guide downward inflation expectations, the Bank o f Mexico acted to raise
  short-term interest rates to 7% percent inApril, and further to 7% percent inOctober.

  The external position remains solid, notwithstanding a decline inoil productionand slower pace o f
  growth in remittances. The current account deficit is projected to increase to % percent o f GDP for
  the year as a whole. The Bank o f Mexico has continued to abstain from discretionary intervention
  inthe foreign exchange market, following the rule for its foreign exchange sales announced in
  2003. Mainly reflecting public sector oil export earnings, official reserves have risen by
  US$5 % billion inthe first three quarters o f 2007 and are about 1% times short-term external debt
  on a residual maturity basis.

  Fiscal policy i s on track to achieve balance for 2007, on the traditional budget measure, as required
  by the new Fiscal ResponsibilityLaw. The non-oil augmented fiscal deficit for 2007 is projected to
  be close to 7 percent o f GDP, broadly similar to recent years' level. Within this, a 0.4 percent o f
  GDP decline in net oil revenues, reflecting declining oil production, is being offset by a reduction
  inoperational outlays, while investment and social expenditures increase. The public debt to GDP
  ratio has been steadily declining, and the average maturity o f central government traded domestic
  debt has increased-with the government recently able to issue 30-year nominal fixed rate bonds,
  albeit in small amounts-although total public sector debt rollover needs are still relatively high.

  Mexican financial markets have weathered recent global financial volatility well. As inother
  emerging markets, the global repricing o f risk that began in late July led to a modest rise in bond
  spreads, as well as a decline in equity prices and some depreciation of the currency (although the
  latter two movements have now been largely reversed). Domestic financial markets have continued
  to function normally, without need for policy interventionby the authorities. Commercial banks
  remain well capitalized, profitable and liquid, and nonperformingloans are still low. The main
  potential concern remains rapid growth o f bank credit to the private sector (29 percent annual

                                                     67

growth through September), primarily to households. Credit to enterprises has recently picked up,
but remains very low.

ExecutiveBoard Assessment
Executive Directors commended the improvements inmacroeconomic and financial policies that
have helpedMexico to reduce significantly external and internal vulnerabilities over the years-with
sustained low inflation, a declining public debt ratio, and a reduction inexternal debt to low levels.
They also welcomed the recent reform breakthroughs, including on tax policy and public pensions,
as essential, forward-looking steps to addressing longer-termchallenges.

At the same time, Directors notedthat Mexico still has a longway to reach its full economic
potential, emphasizing the need to accelerate output and productivity growth and to further reduce
poverty and inequality. They therefore welcomed the National DevelopmentPlan's emphasis on
buildinga more inclusive society that bridges the gap with fast-growing economieswhile creating
more and betterjob opportunities.

Directors considered that Mexico's near-term outlook remains solid. They observedthat Mexican
markets have weathered the recent global volatility well, owing to Mexico's healthy fundamentals.
Nevertheless, Directors expected that economic growth inthe short run could remain somewhat
below potential, as the recent deterioration o f the U.S. economic outlook could spill over to
Mexico.

Directors noted that monetary policy has succeeded inanchoring inflation and inflationary
expectations at a low level, although still somewhat above the 3 percent target. Inthat context, they
considered the current policy stance broadly appropriate, while noting that the Bank o f Mexico
now has the challengingtask o f weighing upside risksto inflation from supply shocks against
downside risksto inflation from the weakening external environment. Directors welcomed the
recent steps to enhance monetary policy communication-includingthe publication o f a forecasted
inflation path-which should facilitate adjustment to shocks, and guide inflation expectations closer
to the target.

Directors considered the independently floating exchange rate regime as appropriate and serving
Mexico well, and the real effective exchange rate as broadly in line with fundamentals. They noted
that this transparent regime has facilitated continuous and smooth adjustment to shocks, thus
contributingto internal and external stability. Directors also notedthat the level o f international
reserves appears adequate, and saw no immediate need for a change inthe non-discretionary rule
governing the accumulation o f reserves.

Directors welcomed the recent tax policy and public pension reforms as key to addressing long-
term fiscal challenges. They recommended that the upfront revenue gains from the tax policy
measures be used cautiously, including in light o f the projectedmedium-term decline o f oil
production and associated fiscal revenue. Inthat context, Directors notedthe importance of
implementing the plan to strengthen tax administration, and resisting any pressures to increase
inertial expenditures. They welcomed the authorities' focus on capital expenditures, while
recommending the targeting o f subsidies to those most in need.

Directors supported the recent and prospective steps to enhance efficiency and accountability in
public spending, at both the national and subnational levels. They encouraged the early
implementationo f a modern integrated financial management information system and notedthe
importance o f improving subnational fiscal and debt statistics.

While commendingthe recent steps to prevent medium-term fiscal difficulties, Directors noted the
fiscal risks from a possible sharp decline o f oil production duringthe next administration. Inthat
context, they recommended giving a longer-term orientationto fiscal policymaking, developing
comprehensive measures o f the public sector balance sheet, and supplementing the balanced
budgetrequirement with a focus on steadily reducingthe large non-oil fiscal deficit. A number o f

                                                    68

Directors recommended establishing an indicative limit for the non-oil augmented fiscal balance
over the mediumterm.

Directors observed that Mexico's financial system remains sound and well regulated. They
commended the authorities' progress to address the issues identified inthe 2006 FSAP Update and
their intention to continue moving on that broad agenda. Directors noted the need to remain alert to
potentialrisks, such as those arising from the use o f structured instruments and the planned
expansion o f development banks' activities. They also recommended continued close monitoring o f
consumer credit growth, which would be facilitated by improved data on consumer balance sheets
and housingmarket developments.

Directors commended the recent successes inbuilding consensus inMexico to re-energize the
reform agenda, and hoped that this success would be extended to other areas. Directors noted the
potential for Mexico to reap large gains-including in reducing fiscal risks-from an early
implementation o f reforms o fthe state-owned oil sector. Several Directors highlighted the
importance o f allowing investment partnerships with other oil companies and investors inthe oil
sector. Directors also emphasized the benefits o f enhancing competition, especially in such key
network sectors as telecommunications, to generate positive spillovers throughout the economy
and to promote equity.




                        Mexico: Selected Economic and Financial Indicators 1/


                                                                2002    2003    2004    2005   2006


                       (Annual percentage changes, unless otherwise indicated)

 Real GDP                                                         0.8     1.4     4.2     2.8    4.8

 Real GDP per capita 2/                                          -0.2     0.4     3.1     1.8    3.7

 Gross domestic investment (in percent o f GDP)                 20.6     20.6   22.1     21.8  22.0

 Gross national savings (inpercent o f GDP)                      18.5    19.2   21.1     21.2  21.8

 Consumer price index (end period)                                 5.7    4.0      5.2    3.3    4.1



 External sector

 Exports, f.0.b.                                                   1.4    2.3   14.1     14.0  16.7

 Imports, f.0.b.                                                   0.2    1.1    15.4    12.7  15.5

 External current account balance (in percent o f GDP)           -2.2    -1.3    -1.0    -0.6   -0.2

 Change in net international reserves (end o f period,

 billions o f US.dollars)                                          7.1    9.5     4.1     7.2   -1.0

 Outstanding external debt (inpercent o f GDP)                  25.0     25.4   24.3     22.6  20.1

 Total debt service ratio 3/

 (inpercent o fexports o fgoods, services, andtransfers)        24.6     24.6   20.8     18.0  23.4


                                                  69

Nonfinancialpublicsector (in percentof GDP)

Augmentedoverallbalance                                      -3.4     -3.1    -1.9    -1.5  -0.7

Non-oilaugmentedbalance                                      -7.5     -7.8    -6.9    -7.1  -6.7

Traditional overall balance                                  -1.2     -0.6    -0.2    -0.1   0.1

Gross augmentedpublic sector debt                            49.7     50.0    46.0   44.0   43.5

Net augmentedpublic sector debt                              43.6     44.0    40.9   38.9   36.8



Moneyand credit

Monetary base                                                17.0     15.0    12.0    11.7  18.4

Broadmoney (M4a)                                             10.8     13.5    12.6    15.0  12.8

Treasury bill rate (28-day cetes, in percent, annual          7.1      6.2     6.8     9.2   7.2
average)


 Sources:National Institute of Statistics and Geography; Bank of Mexico; and Ministryof Finance
 and Public Credit; and IMF
 staff estimates.
 1/ Methodologicaldifferences meanthat the figures inthis table may differ from those published
 by the authorities.
 2/ Fund staff estimates.
 3/ Public and private sectors.
-1 UnderArticle IV ofthe IMF'sArticles ofAgreement, the IMFholdsbilateral discussionswith
members, usually every year. A staffteam visits the country, collects economic and financial
information, and discusseswith officials the country's economic developments and policies. On
returnto headquarters, the staffprepares areport, which forms the basis for discussion bythe
ExecutiveBoard. At the conclusion of the discussion, the ManagingDirector, as Chairman of the
Board, summarizesthe views of ExecutiveDirectors, and this summary is transmitted to the
country's authorities.

IMFEXTERNALRELATIONSDEPARTMENT
PublicAffairs          Media Relations
Phone:202-623-7300 Phone: 202-623-7100
Fax: 202-623-6278 Fax:         202-623-6772




                                                 70

                  ANNEX 5: ESTIMATEDEMISSIONREDUCTIONPOTENTIAL
                          GHGEmissionReductionPotentialinthe Energy Sector
                                   (inMtCole peryear over the period 2007-2014)




Energy Efficiency
Standards and programsof the National          Continue application of current energy efficiency standards      24.0
Commissionfor EnergyConservation               and develop and implement new ones.

Energy efficiency and savings programs ofthe   Strengthen current FIDE programsand promote new ones.            3.9
Trust Fund for Energy Saving ("FIDE")

Mexican Oil Company (PEMEX)
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) inPEMEX          Install CHP plants in the facilities of the National Refining    7.7
                                               System and in other PEMEX facilities.

Centralized power supply to offshore           Substitute individual generationplants for a 115 M W             1.9
platforms                                      combined cycle plant connected to offshore platforms.

Improvement of energy performancein            Increase PEMEX's energy efficiency target by 5 percent.          2.7
refineries

Fugitive emissions of methane (CH,)            Reduce fugitive emissions from natural gas production,           2.4
                                               transportation and distribution; increase efficiency of flares
                                               on offshore platforms.

Power Generation and Distribution (Federal Electricity Commission and Central Light and Power)
Power transmission and distribution            Increasethe efficiency of transmissionand distribution           6.0
                                               lines by 2 percent.

Thermal efficiency in fuel oil-fired           Increasethermal efficiency of fuel oil-fired thermoelectric      0.7
thermoelectric plants                          plants by 2 percent.

Conversion to natural gas and repowering of    Phase out and reorient fuel oil production incentives;           21.0
thermoelectric plants on the Pacific coast;    install on the Pacific coast a gasification terminal for
modernization of the facilities of theNational imported liquefied natural gas, and convert fuel oil-fired
Refining System                                thermoelectric plants to combined cycle.

Industrial Sector
Combined Heat and Power (CHP)                  Develop the CHP potentialof the nationalcement, steel            >25
                                               and sugar industries, among others.

Renewable Energy
Power generationfrom renewable energy          Install7,000 M W ofrenewableenergy capacityto generate           8.0
sources                                        16,000 GWh per year (additional to El Cajon and La
                                               Parota).

Biofuels                                       Introduce sustainablyproducedbiofuels.                           n.a.

Transport Sector
Vehicle replacement                            Replace freight trucks and dieselbusses210 years old from        2.0
                                               2008 onwards.

Freight by rail                                Increaserail coverage for freight transportation by 10           1.5
                                               nercent.




                                                            71

              GHGEmissionReductionPotentialfrom LandUse Changeand Vegetation
                        (inMtCOze over the period2007-2012or MtCOze peryear)




Forestry
Reforestation       Reforest285,000 hectares ayear through the Prokrbol program, to                     10-20
                    accumulate 1.71million hectaresby 2012.

Soil restoration    Restore and reforestdegraded soils inan area of 115,000 hectares annually,           5-15
with reforestation  through Prokrbol, to accumulate 690,000 hectares.

Commercial          Expandthe area incommercial plantations at a rate of 100,000 hectaresper              3-7
plantations         year, to accumulate an additional 600,000 hectares.

Forest CDM          Identify opportunities for carbon capture projects inforest ecosystemsunder           n.a.
                    the CDM.
Area or Activity                                Proposed Measures                               Potential (Mt CO,e/yr)

Wood Energy

Forestderived       Introduce 500,000 high efficiency wood burning stoves inrural                         2.5
biofuels            communities.

Crop Production
Land use            Restore agricultural landto perennial and mixed crops in900,000 hectares,             4.2
reconversion        through the Direct Supportto Agriculture ("PROCAMPO") program.

Efficient use of    Develop standards for fertilizer use accordingto regionand crop; produce a            n.a.
chemical fertilizer Manual of best practicesand assess alternative options.

Prevention of       Promotealternativesto slash and burn agriculture in 100,000 hectares, to              n.a.
forest fires        reduce from 50 percentto 35 percent slash and burnrelatedforest fires.

Conservation        Employ conservationtillage and foster cover crops in200,000 hectares.                 0.9
tillage

Livestock Production
Rehabilitationof    Rehabilitate 450,000 hectares ofgrazing and rangelandsthrough the                     4.6
grazing lands       Programme for support for cattle production("PROGAN").




                                                            72

                    ANNEX 6: MONITORINGINDICATORS AND OUTCOMES

1.       In"Mitigation":This operation will support the implementationofthe critical steps required for
the GoM to collect, process, analyze and buildconsensus on the voluntary emission reductiontargets it is
committed to announce to the Parties to the UNFCCC. The Bank supports the principle that such GHG
emission reduction commitments should be consistent with and integrated into the long term national
vision for the country and its short-term plan, the 2007-2012 NDP. The selected progress indicators are:

    (i)Special Climate ChangeProgram adopted.The GoM is developing the schedule of actions
         through which it will implement the NCCS. This document, to be developed under the guidance
         of the CICC, will encompassmitigation in all the critical sectors and seek to address those issues
         previously defined as priority for implementing adaptation initiatives. As the relevant sectors
         participate inthe CICC, their buy-in is expected. It i s also expected that the lack of prioritization
         noted in reference to the NCCS will be answeredthrough the Special Program.

    (ii)Sectoralcontributions tothenational mitigationeffort defined.Eachsectorwilldefineitsown
         contribution to the national GHG emission reduction effort. The importance of these sectoral
         contributions to the climate change agenda resides in the coordinated and voluntary basis for
         their adoption, andthe accountabilityto the CICC of eachentity.

    (iii)National emission reduction targets set. The GoM has made public its intention to adopt
         voluntary emission reduction targets as it leads developing nations in the articulation of
         "common but differentiated responsibilities" to deal with the threat posed by global climate
         change. The implementation of the NCCS and the more detailed sectoral contributions require
         the definition of some targets and the institutional and social arrangements required for their
         achievement. The selected set of indicators provides the sufficient conditions enabling the GoM
         to voluntarily set emission targets. It is proper that such information is available while the post-
         Kyoto conditions are being negotiated at the UNFCCC. Achieving this goal, inthe context of its
         2007-2012 National Development Plan and its 2030 planning framework, will confirm Mexico's
         commitment to its responsibilities as leader nation among the developing nations, and provide a
         model for many other countries to emulate.


2.       In "Domestic Carbon Pricing": The GoM understands the importance of providing clear
guidance to all economic actors through well selected economic indicators. In the particular case of
climate change mitigation activities the `carbon price' might provide such guidance. The selected
strategy is to gradually select carbon prices with very low impact on the performance of the economy
(which do not jeopardize economic growth) as economic actors adjust their practices to the presence o f
carbon prices. It is expected that the GoM will have the information, knowledge and public inputs
required to assess a portfolio of policy options to internalize the effects of GHGs. Progresstowards this
outcome will be monitoredthrough the following indicators:

    (iv) Proposalfor a national carbon trading system developedand discussedwith key stakeholders.A
         national system of carbon trading is envisaged. Although the National Strategy currently
         envisages a domestic trading system only, other fiscal instruments exist to broaden the
         understanding of the options available for internalizing the effect of GHG emissions. Under a
         trading system, the quantity of GHG emissions is set at the desired level and the carbon price
         adjusts as a result. One sector or firm in excess of its quota may receive or purchase excess
         allowances from a sector or firm that emits less than its quota. In simpler terms, in the trading
         system the government set a target and market forces define the minimum price at which
         equilibrium is achieved. In a taxation system, the government sets the price by imposing the
         carbon tax, and economic actors adjust by reducing their GHG emissions in order to avoid the
         tax. If the price (tax) is adequately set the emission reduction target is achieved. As part of its
         ongoing dialogue with the GoM on climate change, the Bank has offered to discuss international


                                                      73

         experiences and provide information to the GoM for assessing the relative strengths and
         weaknesses of the trading and taxation systems. The analysis of potential pricing mechanisms
         will allow Mexico to consider alternatives for progressively internalizing the negative impact of
         its GHG emissions, with the price of carbon creating an incentive for emitters to curb their
         emissions. The Bank is also suggesting support for expanding the analysis to take the form of a
         Climate Change Public Expenditure Review, which could consider all the sources of funds and
         expenditures in climate change-related activities, finding opportunities for efficiency gains. Also,
         itwill analyze the investment needs andpropose options for financing them.


3.       In "Adaptation": The Stern report on the economics of climate change supports the guiding
principles used to define the NCCS.26 In other words, prompt and strong action is clearly warranted, as
recognized in the NCCS. On this front it is expected that Mexico will create the conditions for
subnational agents to prepare themselves to confront climate change impacts. To such end the following
indicators and targets will be use to make progress in addressing the urgent task o f adapting to climate
change:

    (v) At leastfive states committed to adopting a climate change actionplan. Several states will follow
          in the footsteps of Veracruz and Nuevo Le6n in developing climate change action plans for
          adaptation and mitigation. The GoM will support these state initiatives by providing guidance,
          information and technical assistance. This, together with similar initiatives at the city level, will
          empower sub-national entities to take action against climate change, which i s required for the
         NCCS to succeed.

    (vi) At least I O cities among the most vulnerable committed to adopting a climate change plan. It is
          well understood that climate change mitigation is a global issue, and that adapting to such
          changes is local. To support the implementation of the adaptation component of the NCCS it is
          envisioned that several cities will follow in the footsteps of Mexico City in developing climate
          change plans for adaptation and mitigation. The GoM will support these city initiatives by
          providing guidance, disseminating experiences and technical assistance to prepare city
          governments to confront climate change impacts.


4.        In "Knowledge Base": The Bank recognizes the extraordinary pace at which Mexico has been
collecting the information it needs to plan and implement policies and specific action in the face of
climate change. As the country moves forward in implementing its comprehensive NCCS, its knowledge
base will require further strengthening. This includes climate science and a better understanding of the
physical and economic consequences of the foreseen changes (vulnerability assessments). It is therefore
envisioned that in 24-month timeframe the GoM will continue to gather and analyze relevant data to
fulfill its voluntary reporting commitments to the UNFCCC, and as to gather, process and analyze the
costs and impacts of climate change at national and local levels to support policy formulation and
implementation. The selectedprogress indicators are:

     (vii) Fourth National Communication to UNFCCC submitted. The GoM has made a significant
             commitment towards its responsibility in the UNFCCC by announcing the preparation o f a
             Fourth National Communication- a major milestone without match in the developing world.
             Only Annex Icountries have submitted a Fourth National Communication so far. This
             Communication will provide an improved information basis for assessing progress towards


26Inparticularthe Stem report highlights "This Review has assesseda wide range of evidence on the impacts of climate change
and on the economic costs, and has used a number of different techniques to assess costs and risks. From all of these
perspectives, the evidence gathered by the Review leads to a simple conclusion: the benefits of strong and early actionfar
outweigh the economic costs of not acting." Moreover it strongly arguesthat "Adaptation to climate change that is, taking
                                                                                                              -
steps to build resilience and minimize costs- is essential. It is no longerpossible toprevent climate change that will takeplace
over the next two to three decades, but it is still possible toprotect our societies and economiesfrom its impacts to some extent -
for example, by providing better information, improved planning and ore climate-resilient crops and infrastructure.    I'



                                                                   74

           reducing climate vulnerabilities and national contributions to GHG emissions, and confirm the
           international leadership o f Mexico inthe international climate change arena.

    (viii) Feasibility of mitigation activities dejned for priority sectors. Prior to implementing
           mitigation projects and programs, technical, economic, political, social and environmental
           studies must be conducted. In the context o f limited budget resources, it i s important for the
           G o M to know which mitigation measures are the most efficient and effective. Emphasis will be
           given to the following priority sectors: energy, transport, forestry and land use, waste
           management, agriculture and housing.

       (ix) Quantitative characterization of physical and economic impacts of climate change. It is
            important to improve the assessment o f the likely physical effects o f climate change (on human
           populations, water resources, infrastructure, agriculture, ecosystems, etc.) by increasing the
           reliability o f future climate change scenarios and the localized impacts o f the expected climate
           variables. This physical assessment, together its economic translation, will enable Mexico's
            authorities to make informed choices about policy measures.


5.       In "Institutional Strengthening": Success in the implementationo f the NCCS is a function of
the strength o f the organizational arrangements made to lead and coordinate the plethora o f tasks,
activities and programs envisaged. Although the CICC has proven its ability to plan for a comprehensive
NCCS, it may require institutional strengthening inthe implementationphase. Leadership, accountability
and training should be included inthe government program as it moves towards with the implementation
phase o f the NCCS. Progress will be measured through the following indicators:

    (x) CICC delivers its first progress report on implementation of the Special Climate Change
         Program. Implementation o f climate change-related activities requires a transparent and
         accountable institutional arrangement to increase the likelihood o f success. The CICC will be
         accountable to the President, Congress, and the population at large through its obligation to
         provide written accounts o f the progress made in the implementation o f the SCCP. Its role will
         evolve from coordination o f planning tasks to responsible for coordinatingthe implementation o f
         policies and actions for a more effective climate change response.

    (xi)Training of key federal institutions responsiblefor the implementation of the Special Climate
         Change Program developed. In an effort to further mainstream climate change policy into
         sectoral policy and investments, a number o f key personnel in federal institutions responsible for
         climate change will be trained, thus strengthening the capacity o f ministries and implementing
         agencies.




                                                      75

                                                    ANNEX 7: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE



Mexico at a glance                                                                                                                        3/3/08

                                                                                    Latin   Upper
Key Development Indicators                                                      America     middle
                                                                   Mexico       & Carib.   income           Age distribution, 2006
(2006)                                                                                                                   Male              Female

Population, mid-year (millions)                                      1042            556       810          70-74
Surface area (thousand sq. km)                                       1,958        20,415    41 460          6084
Population growth (%)                                                  1 1            1.3      0 7          50-54
Urban population (% of total population)                                76             78       75          40-44

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                    614 6           2,650    4 790          30 34

GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  7,820           4,767    5,913          20-24

GNI per capita (PPP, international$)                                11,410          8.798   10817           10 14

                                                                                                              0-4
GDP growth (%)                                                         4 8            5.5      5 6               15    10    5     0    5     10     15
GDP per capita growth (%)                                              3 6            4.2      4 9                              DBrCent


(most recent estimate, 2000-2008)
                                                                                                           7
Poverty headcount ratio at $1a day (PPP, 56)                             3              9
Poverty headcount ratio at $2 a day (PPP, %)                            12             22                   Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                        75             72       70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                                22             26       26
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                                  50


Adult literacy, male (% of ages 15 and older)                           93             91       94          40

Adult literacy,female (% of ages 15 and older)                          90             89       92          30
                                                                                                           1
Gross primary enrollment, male (% of age group)                        110            120      106          20
Gross primary enrollment,female (% of age group)                       108            116      104
                                                                                                             10

Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                     97             91       93           0

Access to improved sanitationfacilities (Ohof population)               79             77       81                    1990   1985   2000   2005


                                                                                                               UMexico ULatinAmerica 8the Caribbean


Net Aid Flows                                             1980        1990          2000     2006

(US$ mi//ionsj
Net ODA and official aid                                      55       156            -56      189         IGrowth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
Top3 donors (in 2005):
  United States                                                 9       23             24      129
  Germany                                                     15         9             15       25
  France                                                      15        51            -11       19

Aid (% of GNI)                                                0 0      0 1            0 0       0 0
Aid per capita (US$)                                            1        2             -1         2        I
Long-Term EconomicTrends

Consumer prices (annual % change)                          263        267             9 5       3 6
GDP implicit deflator (annual % change)                     334       28 1           12 1       4 5            -0-GDP           -GDP       per capita

Exchange rate (annualaverage, local per US$)                  0 0      2 8            9 5      109
Terms of trade index (2000= 100)                             194       106            100      115
                                                                                                               1980-90    1990-2000     2000-06
                                                                                                                   (averageannual growth %j
Population, mid-year (millions)                             67 6       83.2          98.0    104.2                 2.1           1.6          1.0
GDP (US$millions)                                       194,357    262,710       581,426   839,182                  1.1          3 1         2 3
                                                                       (% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                   9 0       7 6           4 2       3.9                0 8           1 5          1 9
Industry                                                    33 6       28 4          28 0      26.7                 1 1          3 8          1 3
  Manufacturing                                             22.3       20 8          20 3      18.0                 1 5          4 3         0 8
Services                                                    57 4       63 7          67 8      69.4                 1 4          2 9         2 8

Householdfinal consumption expenditure                      65 1       69 6          67 0      67.6                 1 4          3 9         3 0
General gov't finai consumptionexpenditure                  10.0        8 4          11 1      11.7                2 4           1 8         0 5
Gross capital formation                                     27 2       23 1          23 9      22.0                -3 3          4 7         0 5

Exports of goods and services                               107        186           309       31 9                 7 0         146          5 3
 imports of goods and services                              130        197           329       332                  1 0         123          5 4
Gross savings                                               220        203           205       21 8


Note Figures in italics are for years other than those specified 2006 data are preliminary indicatesdata are not available
a Aid data are for 2005

Development Economics, Development Data Group (DECDG)




                                                                                      76

                                                                                                                                            Mexico

Balance of Payments and Trade                                  2000      2006

(US$ millions)
Total merchandiseexports (fob)                          166,455       249,926
Total merchandise imports (cif)                         174,458       256,058
Nettrade in goods and services                           -10,661       -11,868

Current account balance                                  -18,684        -1,944
  as a % of GDP                                                -3.2       -0.2

Workers' remittances and
  compensationof employees(receipts)                          7,525    21,772

Reserves, includinggold                                    35,577       73,065

Central Government Flnance

(% of GDP)
Current revenue(including grants)                              21.6       24.7
  Tax revenue                                                  10.6        9.7
Current expenditure                                            20.1       21.0
                                                                                      Technology and Infrastructure                   2000    2005
Overall surplusldeficit                                         -1.1       0.1
                                                                                      Paved roads (% of total)                        32.8    49.5
Highest marginaltax rate (%)                                                          Fixed line and mobile phone
   Individual                                                    40         29           subscribers (per 1,000people)                 270      650
   Corporate                                                     35         29        High technologyexports
                                                                                         (% of manufacturedexports)                   22.4     19.6
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                                      Envlronment
(US%millions)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed                     150,901       160,700         Agricultural land (% of land area)                56      56
Total debt service                                         58,509       56,068        Forestarea (% of land area)                     34.3     33.7
Debt relief (HIPC, MDRI)                                          -          -        Nationallyprotectedareas (% of land area)           ..    5.2

Total debt (% of GDP)                                          26.0       19.1        Freshwaterresourcesper capita (cu. meters)          ..  3,967
Total debt service (% of exports)                              30.4       18.9        Freshwaterwithdrawal (% of internalresources)   19.I

Foreign direct investment (net inflows)                     17,942      19,881        C02 emissions per capita (mt)                     4.0     4.1
Portfolioequity (net inflows)                                   447     3,353
                                                                                      GDP per unit of energy use
                                                                                                                                        6.0
   Composition of total external debt, 2006                                              (2000 PPP 5 per kg of oil equivalent)                  5.8


                                         4 418   omcr mm.                             Energyuse per capita (kg of oil equivalent)    1,535    1,622
                                                       000
                                                      011.tcr.l 2 082



                                                                                       (US%millions)

                                                                                       IBRD
                                                                                         Total debt outstandingand disbursed         11,444   4,418
                                                                                         Disbursements                               1,748    1,429
                                                                                         Principal repayments                        1,330    6,100
                                                                                         Interestpayments                              890      461
                                 PrlY31, 142,874

   US$ millions                                                                        IDA
                                                                                         Total debt outstandingand disbursed              0       0
                                                                                         Disbursements                                    0       0
 Private Sector Development                                    2000      2006            Total debt service                               0       0

Time requiredto start e business(days)                                      27          IFC (fiscal year)
Cost to start a business(% of GNI per capita)                             14.2           Total disbursed and outstandingportfolio    1,234    1,146
Time requiredto register property(days)                            ---      74            of which IFC own account                     723      711
                                                                                         Disbursementsfor IFC own account              179       92
Rankedas a major constraintto business                                                   Portfolio sales, prepaymentsand
   (56 of managers surveyedwho agreed)                                                    repaymentsfor IFC own account                 66      168
     Anticompetitive or informal practices                         ..     19.0
     Corruption                                                    ..     17.8         MlGA
                                                                                         Gross exDosure
Stock market capitalization(% of GDP)                          21.5       41.5           New guarantees                                  -        -
Bank capital to asset ratio (%)                                  9.6      12.0


Note: Figures in italics are for years other than those specified. 2006 data are preliminary.                                                3/3/08
 ..indicatesdata are not available. -indicates ObSeNatiOnis not applicable.

 Deveopment Economcs DevelopmentData Grodp (DECDG)                       . .
                                                                            > ,




                                                                                      77

Millennium DeveloPment Goals                                                                                                            Mexico


With selected targets to achieve between 7990 and 2015
(esfimate dosesf fo dateshown, +/- 2years)

Goal 1: halve the rates for $1 a day poverty and malnutrition                                    1990        1995           2000         2005
 Povertyheadcountratio at $1 a day (PPP, % of population)                                         5 2         7 8            5 9           3 0
 Povertyheadcountratio at nationalpovertyline (% of population)                                                             24 2          176
 Share of incomeor consumptionto the poorestqunitiie (%)                                          3 9         4 3            3 9           4 3
  Prevalenceof malnutntion(% of children under5)                                                 16 6        169             7 5

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primaryschooling
  Primaryschool enrollment(net, %)                                                                98                          98            98
  Primarycompletionrate (% of relevantage group)                                                  86           95             97           100
  Secondaryschoolenmilment (gross, %)                                                             52                          72            80
 Youth literacyrate (% of people ages 15-24)                                                      95           96             97            98

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity In education and empowerwomen
  Ratio of girls to boysin pnmaryand secondaryeducation(%)                                        98                         100           101
  Women employedin the nonagnculturalsector (% of nonagnwlturaiemployment)                        35           38             37            37
  Proportionof seats heldbywomen in nationalpalliament(56)                                         12          14             18            24

Goal 4: reduce under4 mortality bytwo-thirds
  Under4 mortalityrate (per 1,000)                                                                46           36             30            27
  Infantmortalityrate (per 1,000 live births)                                                      37          30             25            22
  Measlesimmunization(proportionof one-year oldsimmunized,%)                                       75          90             96            96

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortality by three-fourths
  Maternalmortalityratio (modeledestimate,per 100,000live births)                                                             83
  Birthsattended by skilled healthstaff (% of total)                                                           86                           83

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the spread of HlVlAlDSand other major diseases
  Prevalenceof HiV (% of populationages 15-49)                                                                                             0.3
  Contraceptiveprevalence (% of women ages 15-49)                                                              65             70            73
  Incidenceof tuberculosis (per 100,000people)                                                     64          45             32            23
  Tuberculosiscases detectedunder DOTS (%)                                                                     15             77           110

Goal 7: halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to basic needs
  Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                                              62          87             93            97
  Access to improvedsanitationfacilities(% of population)                                          56          67             75            79
  Forestarea (% of total landarea)                                                               36.2                       34.3          33.7
  Nationallyprotectedareas(% of total land area)                                                                                           5.2
  C02 emissions(metrictons percapita)                                                             4.5         4.0            4.0           4.I
  GDP per unit of energy use (constant2000 PPP $ per kg of oil equivalent)                        5.2         5.2            6.0           5.8

Goal 8: develop a global partnership for development
  Fixedline and mobileDhOne subscn'bers(Der 1,000oeoDlel                                           85         104            270           650
  internetusers (per 1.ob0 people)                                                                  0           1             52           181
  Personalcomputers(per 1,000 people)                                                               8          26             58           136
  Youth unemployment(% of total laborforce ages 15-24)                                            5.4         9.6            4.4           6.6


    Iducatlon lndicaton (K)                            Aeasles lmmunlzatlon (X of 1-year olds)        CT lndlcstors (per 1,000 people)

                                                                                                      7w
                                                                                                      BW
                                                                                                      5m
                                                                                                      4w
                                                                                                      3w
    W25    2wo          2w2                 2W5  E
                                                                                                      200
                                                                                                      1w
                                                                                                       0
                                                                                                              20w       2w2          2005
       -0-Primary      net enrolimnt ratio

        -D-    Ratio of girls to boys in primry d                                                             OFixed + mbiie subscribers
               secondaryeducation                         0 Mexico 0Latin Amenca 6 the Caribbean                Internetusers



Note:Figuresin italicsare foryears otherthan those specified...indicatesdataare not available.                                           3/3/08

DevelopmentEconomics Development Data GrOJp (DECDG)




                                                                               78

                     To
                 Los Angeles             115W                                          110W                                    105W                                 100W                                   95W                            90W                           85W
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                       Albuquerque

                                                                           To                                                  To
                                                                      Gila Bend                                                Alamogordo

               Tijuana
                           Mexicali                                                                                                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
               Ensanada
                                                     Sonoita

                                      San                                                                              Ciudad Jurez                    To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                               Midland
                                                                        Nogales
                                  BAJA              G                                      Agua
                                                                                           Prieta                                                                                                                                            MEXICO
                            CALIFORNIA                                                                                 Rio Brav o
                                                                                                                         RioGrande                            To                                                                                                                    30N
              30N                                   ulf                                                                                                      San Antonio


                                                          of                   SONORA Yaqui             C H I H U A H U A                                                                        To
                                                                                                                              Ojinaga                                                            San Antonio

                                                             C   Hermosillo                                                                                                                       To



                                                                                 Guaymas
                                                           Santa                           M
                                                         Rosalia                                                Conch os                             Sierra ado
                                                                                                                                                         Sal




                                                     BAJA       a l i f o r n i a    Sierra                                                                                                     Houston
                                                                                                         Chihuahua




                                                                                                                                                                       Laredo
                                                                                   Navojoa   adre                                                                  A
                                              CALIFORNIA                                                Fuert                                   C O A HMU I LFrontera
                                                      SUR                                         O           e

                                                                 Loreto                                                                                             NUEVO

                                                                                    Los Mochis                                                               adre     LEON                                               Gulf of Mexico                                             25N
              25N                                                                                  ccidenta                                                                                     Matamoros
                                                                                                                                     Torren
                                                                                                                                     Torren                               Monterrey
                                                                                                                                                           Saltllo
                                                                                                                                                           Saltllo

                                                                                                Culiacn
                                                                                                Culiacn
                       PACIFIC                                                                            S I Nl                                                   O

                                                                                   La Paz                              D U R A N G O
                                                                                                                                                                                   TAMAULIPAS
                                                                                                                         Durango
                        OCEAN                                                                                   A L O A                     ZACATECAS               riental           Ciudad
                                                                                                                                                                                      Victria
                                                                                                                                                                                      Victria
                                                                                                        Mazatln
                                                                                                        Mazatln
                                                                Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                         Zacatecas              SAN LUIS
                                                                                         AGUASCALIENTES                                                          POTOSI                        Tampico       QUERTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                                             QUERTARO
                                                                                                                                                                     San Luis
                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                        NAYARITLeAguascalientes                       Potos
                                                                                                                                                                     Potos                                                                                       YUCATAN        Cancun
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                              Tepic      rma                                                   VERACRUZ                                                Merida
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                 GUANAJUATO                                                       Guanajuato                                  HIDALGO
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                      110W                                                                                                                                                                                         Cozumel
                                                                                                             PuertoVallerta                     Guadalajara                Quertaro
                                                                                                                                                                           Quertaro                            DISTRITO FEDERAL

                                                                                                                                  JALISCO                                                  Pachuca                 TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                               MEXICO                                                         20N                                                                                                                                                                  QUINTANA
                                                                                                     MEXICO                                                             MEXICO
                                                                                                                                                         Morelia                                       Jalapa
                                                                                                                                                                             CITY                                         Bay of Campeche                              ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                               Tlaxcala        Veracruz
                                                                                                                                   Colima                              Toluca                                                                                            Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Citlaltpetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Citlaltpetl
                                                                                                                                 COLIMA                              Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                                MICHOACAN                                   Puebla                                                CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                              PUEBLA                               TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                           Ba lsa s                                                     Villahermosa                            Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                              GUERRERO           Chilpancingo                                                                       BELIZE Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                           Oaxaca                                 CHIAPAS  Usumacinta
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                        Acapulco      S i e r r aM a d r e     OAXACA                     Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                       d e l  S u r   Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                   MORELOS                       Puerto
NOVEMBER                             RAILROADS                                                               0       100        200    300 Kilometers                                        Escondido                     Gulf of              GUATEMALA                           15N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Tehuantepec                                     HONDURAS         IBRD
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                         15N                                                                                                                                  Tapachula                 To
                                                                                                             0      50     100    150   200 Miles                                                                                                         San Salvador
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EL                   33447
        2004                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                              105W                                       100W                                          95W                                       SALVADOR

