                                                                                                                    86281

                                                                                                   OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                           SD2008-002 1
                                                                                                       IFC/SD2008-00 13

                                                                                                                   May 15,2008


FROM: Vice President and Corporate Secretary



             Summary o f Discussion at the Meeting o f the Executive Directors
             o f the Bank and IDA, and the Board o f Directors o f IFC, April 8,2008'




                     Contents                                                                  Page


                                  -
                     Colombia Third Programmatic Business
                        Productivity and Efficiency Development
                        Policy Loan (Country Partnership Strategy
                        also included)

                     Mexico - Climate Change Development
                       Policy Loan (Country Partnership Strategy
                       also included)




*    This summary consists o f staff notes o f the discussion and i s not an approved record.


Distribution:
 Executive Directors and Alternates
 President
 Bank Group Senior Management
 Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
 Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its content!
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.
                                                                         SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-0013
                                               -1-                        Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

C O L O M B I A - THIRD P R O G R A M M A T I C BUSINESS P R O D U C T M T Y AND EFFICIENCY
DEVELOPMENT P O L I C Y LOAN
1.       The Executive Directors approved the Third Programmatic Business Productivity and Efficiency
Development Policy Loan (DPL) to Colombia in the amount o f US$550 million (R2008-0052 and
R2008-0052/1, dated March 18,2008). The Executive Directors o f the Bank and the Board o f Directors
o f IFC also discussed the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Colombia (R2008-0047, IFC/R2008-
0062, dated March 18,2008 and R2008-0047/1, IFC/R2008-0062/1, dated April 4,2008).
I.      Country PartnershiD Strategy
2.       Staff Introduction. The Chairman was pleased to see discussion o f the CPS, which was based on
a close partnership developed between the World Bank Group (WBG) and i t s Colombian counterparts. It
reflected the evolving relationship between the Bank and a sophisticated middle-income country (MIC)
with access to international financial markets, well-developed local institutions and a comprehensive
development plan. The CPS was aligned with Colombia’s National Development Plan and budget cycle,
and the CPS pipeline would be determined during annual consultations in conjunction with results-based
country portfolio performance reviews.
3.       Bank staff thanked Directors for useful comments raised at a thematic group meeting the
preceding week, as well as for bilateral discussions. The CPS was framed in the context o f the Bank’s
Middle-Income Strategy and sought to incorporate comments received during the consultation process
from inside and outside o f the government. There was more emphasis on flexibility and on-demand
services, as well as a continued demand for traditional lending services. Staff commented that today’s
discussion o f Mexico’s CPS gave the opportunity to see efforts by the Bank to tailor assistance strategies
to the needs o f individual counties. Responses to Directors’ written questions are covered below.
4.       Su~~o      r t CPS. A large number o f speakers welcomed and supported the new CPS for
                  for
Colombia, which many commended as well-written and insightful. The dialogue between the Bank and
the Colombian Government had resulted in a strong, productive relationship over the last CAS period,
contributing to the significant progress the country had made. The CPS was aligned with the country’s
development goals as expressed in the 2006-20 10 National Development Plan (NDP) and i t s longer-term
development strategy “Colombia Vision 20 19”. Speakers noted that Colombia had made notable gains
since the 1999 financial crisis, with real GDP growth for 2007 projected at 6.6%, and a doubling o f
private sector investment between 2002 and 2005. Speakers were also encouraged that Colombia was
nearing its Millennium Development Goal (MDG) targets.
5.      A number o f speakers noted that although the security situation had improved and strong
economic growth had aided poverty reduction, much remained to be done, particularly in the areas o f
regional, ethnic and gender disparities.
6.     A speaker appreciated informative bilateral meetings with staff. Several speakers thanked the
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) for its candid review o f the CAS Completion Report. Speakers
wished staff and the authorities every success with implementation o f the CPS and DPL.
7.       Program EnveloDe. A number o f speakers agreed with the proposed program envelope and
projected exposure levels. The pillars o f intended Bank activity namely, growth, equity, the environment,
peace and government, implied that the Bank remained a strong and relevant contributor in addressing
Colombia’s development challenges and i t s peace building process. Speakers stressed the need for
selectivity, adding that the rolling programming would help in this regard, as well as a demand-driven,
results-oriented approach. Some speakers appreciated that the lending program anticipated for 2008-09
was expected to take advantage o f recent changes in Bank lending instruments such as the new Deferred
Drawdown Option (DDO) and extended maturities policies, the Sub-national Finance Facility and other
new product lines, such as resolving regional inequities, competitiveness, regional development and
adapting to global climate change.
                                                                             SD2008-002 1; IFC/SD2008-00 13
                                                  -2-                         Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

8.      A number o f speakers agreed with the main points o f the risk assessment o f the CPS, especially
external risks. They added that working at the sub-national level was also a risk for the Bank. They
welcomed the Bank’s plans t o build capacity in this area, especially with respect to the Sub-national
Finance Facility.
9.      One speaker repeated a point mentioned in previous Board discussions that lending and analytic
and advisory (AAA) activities needed to more effective, focusing o n specific project-related results and
considering each country’s reality and peculiarities. Another speaker called on the WBG to be selective
with projects and with assisting the country based on its mandate, comparative advantage and the
country’s needs and priorities. One speaker commented that although the CPS was not fully programmed
in advance, table 4 provided an indicative WBG lending and AAA program. H e asked if projects would
be chosen from this framework.
10.         Staff said that table 4 provided a summary o f the potential areas o f WBG support in FY 08-09,
which had been discussed with the government. The program for F Y 0 8 was firm, but the FY09 projects
were s t i l l being confirmed and were subject to change.
11.      Flexible Approach. A number o f speakers noted that the CPS made use o f a more flexible
approach in accordance with the MIC strategy. As Colombia’s economic and fiscal positions continued to
strengthen, one o f them commented that Colombia might want to consider more fee-based services to
increase responsiveness by helping tailor Bank assistance even more closely to the ongoing policy
dialogue. The speaker asked for annual updates in cases such as this where rolling approaches were being
used. One speaker wanted to ensure that CPSs remained effective instruments for decision making and
measuring results. She asked how the Bank could better balance the more flexible rolling approach with
longer-term planning. She noted plans to address this through changes to Annual Country Portfolio
Performance Reports, but added that it was also important to incorporate more forward looking and
regular updates to the Board. She also asked how the Board would measure the value-added o f Bank
interventions when the Results Framework used the anticipated outcomes o f national development plans.
Another speaker asked for a fuller understanding o f the implications o f the faster, more flexible client-
driven approach for the Bank’s country business model in Colombia. H e was also interested in the
expected annual cost o f the country program, the breakdown between lending and AAA services, and the
extent to which it would be covered through lending spreads and fees for service.
12.      One speaker hoped that flexible features o f this CPS could be included in other countries’
strategies.
13.      Staff said that the strategy’s focus was a continuation o f the pillars that had been identified in the
past. Increased flexibility related to how the Bank used i t s instruments to support the government. This
could come through different combinations o f Bank/IFC lending, technical assistance and advisory
services. Flexibility referred to how the Bank responded in the most effective way. Staff added that in a
CPS paper, staff tried to lay out the set o f rules used to decide on which activities to support. Uncertainty
about future demands made it difficult to have a Results Framework similar to more traditional
frameworks. Every two years, country teams were expected to come back to the Board with a progress
report laying out actions taken and to firm up the Results Framework going forward. Staff planned to
return to the Board in about six months when some o f these issues would be discussed further.
 14.    Income inesualitv and Povertv. A number o f speakers commented that addressing unequal
income distribution s t i l l required substantial development efforts. Some o f them observed that although
Colombia was moving towards achieving i t s MDGs, the situation was likely to be different for Afro-
Colombians, indigenous peoples and other groups due to serious ethnic, gender and regional differences.
They called for the Bank’s involvement in poverty eradication to be strengthened, especially by assisting
the rural population in conflict zones. One speaker called for efforts to reemphasize work in the rural
sector and to internalize equity and social exclusion into the Bank’s analytical work and operations.
Another speaker welcomed the proposed activities to improve labor markets and stimulate income
                                                                           SD2008-0021; FC/SD2008-0013
                                                -3-                         Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

generating activities, including through grant-financed activities. One speaker highlighted that some
ongoing projects in Colombia were good models for support for social inclusion and equity, such as the
Urban Transport Project and the Education APL.
15.    A speaker pointed to Colombia’s high level o f urbanization compared to other lower-middle
income countries, and asked about the implications o f this for i t s economic and social development.
16.       Staff agreed that Colombia did have a high degree o f urbanization, but this was in line with the
rest o f Latin America. The Bank had developed a number o f programs with different cities in recent times
in the areas o f transportation, waste management and the environment. The Bank had also been asked to
look at poverty in addition to infrastructure.
17.      One speaker noted that Colombia was the IBRD’s largest single creditor, but that poverty
alleviation was an area where the Bank was seen as relatively less effective. H e asked for staff comments
on this gap between value and money.
18.      Staff said that questions about the effectiveness o f Bank work on poverty alleviation might be
related to the fact that poverty levels had not fallen as fast as in other countries. Since the Bank supported
many government programs t o reduce poverty, effective progress in this area might be seen as a proxy for
Bank effectiveness in helping to reduce poverty.
19.     OwnershiD and Donor Coordination.A number o f speakers welcomed the high degree o f
country ownership o f the development agenda and the Bank’s role with donor coordination. They asked
Management to elaborate on the Bank’s role with donor coordination, as well as on the level and areas o f
collaboration with other development partners in Colombia. Some speakers welcomed use o f stakeholder
consultations and client surveys in the elaboration o f the CPS, which were also applicable to other l o w
and middle income countries. Another speaker asked about the respective roles o f the WBG and the Inter-
American Development Bank (IADB) under the new CPS.
20.      Staff said that the Colombian Government took the lead in donor coordination. However, the
Bank did collaborate with other donors in sectors o f mutual interest. With regard to the IADB,
collaboration included common work on financial management and procurement in line with region-wide
practices, and on infrastructure and the social sector work.
2 1.     Monitoring. A number o f speakers welcomed the three additional layers o f results monitoring,
namely N D P monitoring, AAA monitoring and project monitoring. They asked for more information on
the timing, resources and dissemination o f these additional monitoring exercises. Another speaker called
for comparison o f the monitoring approach with IEG’s recommendations on the Mexico CPSCR with
development o f a two-tiered monitoring system with country and Bank indicators. A more uniform
approach could be applied to other MICs, especially where Bank assistance was small as a share o f
overall financing for development.
22.     Drawing on lessons from the recent Annual Report o n Portfolio Performance (ARPP) discussion,
one speaker encouraged greater dissemination o f the analytics and findings o f Economic and Sector Work
(ESW) and AAA work. H e welcomed the two-year pipeline provided, but added that a pipeline over a
longer horizon could help to define a strong results matrix and to monitor progress. The use o f the
government’s own monitoring system, SIGOB, to measure outcomes, could help to strengthen the
Colombian monitoring and evaluation framework.
23.      Staff said that the Bank’s knowledge products were meant to contribute to the public policy
process and would be judged on their quality, relevance and sustainability. The quality o f the Bank’s
AAA would be assessed through feedback from the client, periodic evaluations o f a sample o f knowledge
products from outside experts and on the Bank’s internal evaluations. Their relevance would be assessed
by whether the government invited the Bank to contribute to high priority policy issues. The sustainability
o f the Bank’s knowledge products would be market tested through demand for i t s AAA.
                                                                         SD2008-002 1; IFC/SD2008-00 13
                                               -4-                        Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

24.      Governance.A speaker recommended caution with areas o f weakness highlighted in the CPS,
particularly as the Bank’s assistance increased at the sub-sovereign level. Weak governance could hinder
Bank operations, but he appreciated efforts to avoid this problem including ring-fencing o f funds, use o f
fiduciaries and maintaining transparency with procurement processes. Several other speakers welcomed
that the CPS incorporated the main tenets o f the Bank’s Governance and Anti-Corruption (GAC) Strategy
and L A C regional policy as a complement to Colombia’s efforts on this front, including the recent
ratification o f the U N ’ s Anti-Corruption Convention and the governance pillar o f the NDP. They
welcomed that Bank interventions would be designed in conformity with Paris Declaration Principles o f
donor alignment and harmonization with national systems, moving rapidly towards full use o f country
systems. One speaker noted that Colombia’s systems would meet WGB requirements in the near future
thanks to on-going joint capacity building activities. In these circumstances, she asked why the Bank
continued to identify circumstances to justify the use o f Project Implementation Units (PIUs).
25.      Staff said that in general, Colombia had made significant progress on moving to international
standards in procurement, financial management and safeguards. Work at the sub-national level was often
more uneven. Projects in regions with governance challenges required additional risk mitigation
measures, including selective use o f PWs to ensure transparency and compliance with the Bank’s
fiduciary standards.
26.      Bank Competitiveness. Some speakers discussed the need for the Bank to be more competitive
in M I C countries like Colombia. One o f them noted that although the Bank remained competitive with
other creditors to Colombia in terms o f pricing, the challenge was to reduce the non-financial transaction
costs borne by Colombia and to ensure that the Bank’s AAA services were cutting edge and responsive to
changing needs.
27.   Decentralization.A speaker asked to what extent the WBG’s country operations were located in
Colombia and whether the new CPS would entail further decentralization.
28.     Staff said that the Bank anticipated that the overall envelope o f budget resources would remain
the same and follow the current distribution between lending, supervision and AAA. The Bank office in
Colombia currently had 3 1 staff. While most task team leaders were in Washington, some operations
were task managed out o f Bogota, particularly those relating to education, urban infrastructure and natural
resource management.
29.     Gender Issues. Although poverty had decreased at the national level, a number o f speakers noted
that female-headed households continued to experience poverty disproportionately. They asked why
gender issues were not addressed in the CPS.
30.      Staff said that gender was a transversal theme in the CPS and had been mainstreamed into all
pillars. A large number o f Bank operations would benefit women directly, such as the Familias in Accion,
Peace and Development, and Transmilenio projects.
3 1.   EnvironmentalIssues, A number o f speakers stressed the need for an integrated environmental
approach.
32.     Financial Market Instabilitv. A speaker pointed to an interesting presentation earlier that day on
the current financial crisis and its implications for middle-income and developing countries. H e asked
what leeway or levers were provided in the CPS to react to the sobering outlook.
33.     The Vice President for L A C said that during the Spring Meetings, the Bank would hold a meeting
with Latin American delegations to look at the potential impact o f the crisis on the region and to discuss
ways the Bank could help if more urgent or emergency assistance was required. Staff added that
Colombia’s growth rate for 2007 appeared to be higher than initial estimates, now showing 7.5% for the
year, and 8.1% for the last quarter. There were concerns about what would happen with the overall
economy and with neighboring states.
                                                                             SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-0013
                                                  -5-                         Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

34.     IFCWRD/IADB Collaboration.A number o f speakers expressed support for strong
collaboration between IBRD and IFC as outlined in the CPS. A speaker believed that a stronger
involvement by IFC in infrastructure would support the government’s objectives t o develop this sector
even further.
35.      A speaker commented that in a lower middle-income country like Colombia, while public sector
investment remained critical, well-developed financial and capital markets were the key to long-term
sustainable investment for development. The Bank Group, especially IFC, could play a unique role in this
sector to maximize i t s development impact, and the speaker encouraged the Bank t o do more in this
regard. Another speaker welcomed the comprehensive discussion o f the private sector strategy and was
pleased with the quality o f IFC’s portfolio in Colombia. H e noted i t s innovative issuance o f bonds, i t s
provision o f partial risk guarantees to facilitate access to local capital markets and i t s support to micro
enterprises and SMEs, given their importance for employment generation.
36.     Peace and stabilitv. Some speakers noted that peace and stability were o f vital importance to
economic growth and poverty reduction, and vice versa. The Bank’s mandate and comparative advantage
was to facilitate economic growth and stability and to reduce poverty from a purely economic perspective.
With respect to the Bank’s strategy and operations, they stated that peace could be one o f the results o f i t s
operations and should not be advocated as an objective, given that this could cause confusion about the
Bank’s mandate.
37.     Staff said that comments about sensitivities around peace processes were well-taken. The
government was most interested in Bank analytical support o n reparation payments for victims o f
violence. Staff stated that on the topic o f peace, the Bank was proceeding extremely carefully.
38.      Comments of the Sueaker ReuresentinpColombia. The speaker thanked Board members for
their support. On behalf o f his authorities, he also thanked the Bank for i t s long-term and evolving
support to Colombia. H e noted that Colombia was taking advantage o f new innovative financial
mechanisms such as the DDO, extended maturity loans and local currency loans. With respect to poverty
reduction, he noted that his authorities were committed to tackling this issue with the help o f the Bank.
Colombia s t i l l faced high levels o f inequality. The government was using direct cash transfers and other
public expenditures targeted towards the poor, and he called for analysis o f the impact o f these
expenditures. The speaker discussed violence and i t s connections to narcotics trafficking, which persisted
given inadequate progress around the world to tackle drug consumption. H e called on the Bank to assess
the outcome o f the U N ’ s policy on this topic and to propose changes that might be required. The speaker
concluded that Colombia needed to increase efforts with infrastructure, adding that IFC could help to
increase foreign investment in this area. He called for an investment fund for infrastructure similar to one
established in India with IFC support.
39.    Concludinp Remarks. The Chairman’s Concluding Remarks were read and later circulated as
R2008-0047/2, IFC/R2008-0062/2, dated April 11, 2008)
11.     Third Promammatic Business Productivitv and Efficiency Development Policv Loan
40.      Staff Introduction. The Chairman noted that the DPL operation was part o f a series that had
supported a set o f reforms to improve Colombia’s overall competitiveness. Staff said that Colombia had
been at the forefront o f using new financial instruments from the Bank, starting with use o f local currency
instruments. The previous month, Directors approved a student loan facility using extended maturities and
today’s operation was the f i r s t to use the revised DDO.
41,                  t Loan. A large number o f speakers expressed support for the proposed D P L and said
         S u ~ u o r for
that macroeconomic and structural reform efforts had delivered important results with growth and poverty
reduction. The proposed D P L should help consolidate achievements through i t s focus on fiscal and
financial management, improving quality standards and technological innovation, and strengthening
infrastructure and logistics.
                                                                              SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-00 13
                                                   -6-                         Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

42.     Triggers. A number o f speakers noted that the trigger on submitting the Financial Sector L a w to
Congress had not been met, but that progress was expected later in the year. All other triggers and prior
actions had been met, and program outcome indicators to date had either been met or exceeded.
43.     Results Matrix. A speaker appreciated the results matrix which identified specific outcomes for
this operation, but would have appreciated baseline and interim targets for better monitoring o f outcomes.
44.     Updatinp Diapnostics. A speaker commented that increased use o f DPLs and second and third
generation products would help the Bank to build upon ongoing assistance to achieve deeper impacts.
However, he expected core diagnostics to be updated while maintaining high fiduciary standards and
strong safeguards.


MEXICO - CLIMATE CHANGE DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
45.      The Executive Directors o f the Bank and IDA approved a loan in the amount o f US$501.25
million to the United Mexican States for a Climate Change Development Policy Loan (R2008-005 1,
dated March 7,2008). The Executive Directors o f the Bank and IDA and the Board o f Directors o f IFC
also discussed the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico (R2008-0046 [IFC/R2008-0060], dated
March 18,2008).
I.       Country Partnership Stratepy
46.     Staff Introduction. Staff thanked Executive Directors for their positive and supportive
statements on the CPS as well as their recommendations for CPS implementation going forward. The
streamlined lending approach was a step in the direction o f greater flexibility. This increased flexibility
was an opportunity for the Bank to position itself in Mexico to deliver lending and analytical and advisory
services (AAA) more rapidly. The AAA would be provided in many forms, including policy notes,
monitoring and evaluation, and conferences. This was an enormous opportunity to remain relevant in the
debate o n climate change and development.
47.     The Bank hoped to exploit these opportunities not only on national issues, but also on the global
public goods debate. The development policy loan (DPL) before the Board today was part o f a long-term
dialogue with Mexico and, ultimately, much more o f a partnership to push this agenda further. Finally,
Mexico was interested in seeing the Bank advance further with regard to financing instruments. It
welcomed the pricing changes, particularly the contingency financing possibility under the Deferred
Drawdown Option (DDO). This was the first operation o f i t s kind for Mexico using the DDO. Staffs
responses to questions posed by Executive Directors in their written statements are in the summary.
48.     A Well-Written, Innovative, and Demand-Driven CPS. A large number o f speakers
commended the CPS, which they described as well written, comprehensive, innovative, and demand-
driven. They expressed support for i t s objectives, which they found to be appropriate and aligned with
Mexico’s National Development Plan, focusing on five pillars: rule o f law and public safety, economic
competitiveness and j o b creation, equality o f opportunity, environmental sustainability, and effective
democracy and responsible foreign affairs.
49.        A large number o f speakers enumerated several praiseworthy features o f the strategy, inter alia,
i t s flexibility, responsiveness, and selectivity, i t s streamlined nature, and i t s price competitiveness. Some
o f them also based their support on the principles underpinningthe engagement, the CPS’s alignment
with the government’s planning horizon, the plan to streamline the lending program in order to free up
budget resources for an enhanced AAA program, the enhanced results focus o f and incorporation o f AAA
products into the Country Program Portfolio Review (CPPR), and the evidence o f strong collaboration
between IBRD and IFC.
50.    The Bank’s EnPaPement in Middle-Income Countries. A large number o f speakers said that
the CPS was a good example o f what the Bank should and could do in partnership with middle-income
                                                                          SD2008-002 1;IFC/SD2008-00 13
                                                -7-                        Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

countries (MICs) and a concrete application o f the Bank’s MIC Strategy. They were pleased to note
Mexico’s interest in continued strong engagement with the Bank, which they felt demonstrated the
Bank’s competitiveness in a challenging environment. Another speaker felt that valuable lessons could be
drawn from the Bank’s partnership with Mexico.
5 1.    A speaker said that as a mature partner of the Bank, Mexico had developed several good practices
to ensure the effectiveness o f Bank assistance. These included using the MOU to plan the annual AAA
work program, usingjoint IBRD-IFC efforts to offer state and local governments a complete package o f
advisory services, and incorporating AAA products into Mexico’s annual portfolio performance review
process.
52.     The Chairman commented that the Bank and the government had come to an agreement on
pricing and the “hassle factor” in the space o f three months. H e saw it as a good sign when the
government and the Bank could work as closely and as conscientiously as had the Bank and Mexico. This
was an experience that management would try t o emulate not only in other M I C s but in all other
countries.
53.      Proposal for MIC Policv Exchanpe Network. A speaker observed that Mexico’s “development
puzzles” were not unique, but rather were common to MICs generally. Regional disparities, imbalanced
development, broad coverage o f public services with relatively l o w efficiency and quality, and building a
welfare state without compromising economic competitiveness were some o f the major development
challenges facing most MICs. Some had taken decisive actions to address them. The Bank’s
dissemination o f the lessons o f experience was important, but direct exchange o f experiences among peer
clients would add more relevance and credibility to them. H e proposed establishing a policy exchange
network for MICs, with the aim o f providing a systematic forum for MICs to directly exchange
development experiences with the facilitation o f the Bank. Promoting the proposal could be part o f the
Bank’s efforts to promote South-South cooperation. Another speaker echoed the speaker’s request and
added that this was something that the Board should pay strong attention to. H e noted that the L A C
Region was the only region where none o f the long-term high-growth performers were located. H e urged
the Region to take a hard look at the findings o f the Growth Commission.
54.      The Chairman commented that the proposal was a good idea and promised to bring it to the table
at the M I C Steering Committee meeting. Staff said that there was enormous interest not only in the
experience in the OECD but also in what was happening in China, India, South Africa, Russia, and other
countries. Staff was attempting to incorporate it into i t s AAA work. A conference on results-based
budgeting would be held in June, with the participation o f many countries as w e l l as the OECD, to share
experiences on this issue.
55.      Lessons LearnedDEG’s Review of the Previous CPS. A large number o f speakers were pleased
to note that lessons learned from the previous CPS were reflected in the current one. They endorsed the
five principles derived from those lessons, on which the Bank’s support would be based: flexibility, fast
response through streamlined lending consolidated into an annual DPL, selectivity, competitive lBRD
pricing, and coordinated Bank Group support.
56.     A speaker said that the CPS Completion Report (CPSCR) had raised a few important aspects o f
the broader M I C strategy as the Bank developed more experience with i t s implementation. First, while
increased flexibility could help improve responsiveness, the result o f this approach in the 2004 CPS was a
disconnect between the tasks identified in the CPS and the program outcomes. The lessons adopted for
the current CPS were less ex-ante specificity in the tasks identified for Bank support and a results
framework based on government rather than Bank programs. While he agreed with aligning Bank country
outcomes with those o f government, he felt that measuring the impact o f Bank interventions remained
desirable, H e welcomed the IEG’s alternative-development o f a two-tiered monitoring system with
country and Bank indicators-and urged staff to consider it during implementation o f the CPS.
                                                                            SD2008-002 1; IFC/SD2008-00 13
                                                 -8-                         Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

57.      A speaker welcomed the CPS’s respect for the government’s strategy but felt that the Bank
should more clearly delineate i t s own analysis in the CPS. H e did not find a clear Bank assessment o f the
government’s strategy and the areas it believed needed strengthening for poverty reduction. H e felt that
the Bank could have addressed the income disparity between Mexico’s northern and southern regions,
which was mentioned as a long-run development challenge. H e asked h o w the government would address
this issue and h o w the Bank could help.
58.     Staff said that this reflected the tension between attempting to keep the document short while
providing sufficient analysis. In the last few years, the Bank had produced a vast amount o f analysis on
some o f the major issues confronting Mexico. Substantial volumes on poverty had been produced, and the
Bank had been working on competitiveness on an ongoing basis. The Bank was attempting to emphasize
the importance o f growth. The climate change project had been produced relatively quickly thanks to the
many activities developed over the last few years on this subject.
59.      With respect to specificity, a speaker noted that the CPS consolidated most lending into large,
annual DPLs over the next five years, yet the document only identified two potential DPLs, one for
climate change and another for the environment, and loosely described the possibility o f additional
lending support. H e felt that the lack o f detail called into question the usefulness o f the CPS as an
information and decision-making tool if such an approach were to be used more broadly in MICs,
especially those with weaker capacity. H e called for a more balanced approach so that the CPS remained
a valuable instrument. H e asked for the introduction o f annual updates to the Board when a more flexible,
or rolling, approach was used.
60.    A speaker wanted to know how this strategy addressed the lessons from the evaluation o f the
previous CPS, particularly on the thematic pillar o f Institutions, o n which that CPS was rated as
moderately unsatisfactory.
6 1.      Staff expressed disagreement with IEG’s rating, because staff viewed institutional reform as a
crosscutting theme rather than a pillar and because progress had been substantial, if mixed (Le., with
stronger results in tax administration and less success injudicial reform). In addition, implementing
institutional reform took time to ensure consensus among government officials who, in the end, were the
implementing agents for reform. This process might extend beyond the timeframe o f the CPS cycle.
62.      R i s k s . Some speakers noted the risks identified and expressed satisfaction with the mitigation
measures put in place. One o f them added that Mexico’s track record o f sound macroeconomic
management offered significant mitigation against risks. H e f e l t that the role o f the Bank Group as not
only a lender but as a provider o f significant non-lending services to make the investment climate
continually more attractive should be more clearly spelled out.
 63.      Macroeconomic and Structural R e f o r m Issues. A number o f speakers commended the
 government for i t s impressive progress in maintaining macroeconomic stability and promoting growth in
 recent years, citing average annual growth o f 3.8 percent, outstanding fiscal performance, stability o f the
 financial sector, and significant reduction o f external debt. Some speakers applauded the ambitious nature
 o f the National Development Plan, adding that i t s focus on the rule o f law, economic competitiveness and
j o b creation, reducing inequality, environmental sustainability, and institutional strengthening was based
 on in-depth analysis o f the country’s ongoing challenges.
64.           A number o f speakers welcomed staffs candid assessment that despite steady progress, Mexico
s t i l l faced difficult issues, such as poverty, income inequalities that mirrored geographic and ethnic
disparities, slowing economic and productivity growth, environmental challenges, and quality issues in
health, education, infrastructure, and power services. Some speakers were particularly concerned about
the potential negative impact o f the global economic downturn on the already slowing economic growth
rate. One o f them said that given the increased economic integration following NAFTA, the deceleration
o f the U.S. economy could take a higher toll on Mexico’s economic growth than o n that o f other Latin
American economies. H e asked staff to comment on how the Bank could support the country in
                                                                           SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-0013
                                                 -9-                        Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

addressing this issue. Another speaker asked staff to comment on the impact o f the U.S. crisis on the
Mexican economy and the measures to prevent the spreading o f the crisis to Mexico.
65.     Staff said that over the past 15 years, Mexico’s GDP had been closely correlated with industrial
production in the United States. The link o f Mexico’s real economy with the U.S. economy was part o f
the Bank’s policy dialogue with the government, and the focus was o n the medium-term agenda for
improved export competitiveness, along with offering contingent financing instruments, such as the DDO.
Mexico had reduced its vulnerability to financial shocks by lowering the external debt share o f public
debt from about 80 percent in the mid-1990s to less than 20 percent today. In addition, Mexico had
implemented a floating exchange rate with inflation targeting.
66.     Subnational Engagement. A number o f speakers said that institutional reform at both the
national and subnational levels would be critical to the government’s agenda and to addressing inequality
and poverty. They asked about the extent o f the Bank’s involvement at the subnational level.
67.     Staff said that direct lending by foreign financial institutions to states-with or without a
sovereign guarantee-was prohibited by Mexican law. In the past, the Bank had lent resources that were
then on-lent to states through a national development bank, which had imposed additional financial and
non-financial costs on the ultimate borrowers. Consequently, results o f lending operations at the state
level had been limited and mixed. Staff looked forward to working with the federal government to
develop solutions to this problem. The Bank continued to support state development programs through
non-lending services and loans to the federal government, which passed on grant resources to them..
68.      Povertv and Ineaualitv. A speaker said that the existence o f two worlds within Mexico-the
less-developed world and the high-income member o f the O E C D - c o u l d undermine economic
sustainability and development achievements. Poverty remained high, with almost 45 million Mexicans
living in poverty and persistent and significant differences across regions and ethnic groups. One o f them
asked staff how the Bank’s advisory services could help the country tackle social inclusion, poverty
reduction, and inequality.
69.     Staff said that efforts in this area would build on past work that had helped diagnose the key
dimensions o f these issues and evaluate the impact o f social policies, such as the Progresa-Oportunidades
conditional cash-transfer program, and would ultimately help the government refine its own strategies for
confronting these problems. The Bank had and would continue to work with state and local governments
through advisory services to enhance capacity for addressing inequality.
70.     The Bank Grow Assistance Propram. A number o f speakers expressed support for the
assistance program o f US$2.4 billion for the period 2008-10, with the remainder o f the amount to be
determined at the time o f the CPS Progress Review in 201 1. They endorsed the combination o f IBRD
lending with the enhanced program o f analytical and advisory activities.
7 1.     A number o f speakers favorably noted that the streamlined approach would free up resources for
an enhanced non-lending program, in line with client demand. They were nonetheless pleased to read that
“the key role o f the Bank as a lender i s also understood” by the Mexican authorities. They added that in
the event that lending was lower than anticipated in the CPS, they would be content to support the
strategy outlined in paragraph 69 o f the CPS document.
72.     A speaker welcomed the prominence given to AAA, especially fee-based services, and i t s link to
the policy dialogue in Mexico. This he found to be a welcome contrast to the recent Annual Review o f
Portfolio Performance (ARPP), which noted that the link between AAA and policy priorities was often
weak.
73.     A speaker noted the lending level o f US$SOO million per year for the f i r s t three years, with the
D P L constituting a predominant part o f total lending. While he favored flexibility in the volume o f
lending, he asked why staff had proposed a singular annual lending figure instead o f a range o f high-case
and low-case scenarios. H e asked about the factors that could affect lending volume in the outer years.
                                                                          SD2008-0021; FC/SD2008-0013
                                               - 10-                       Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

74.     Staff said that annual base lending to the federal government would be US$SOO million over the
next three years; however, lending amounts could be adjusted depending on IBRD pricing
competitiveness and market conditions and on the scope for subnational lending. A mid-term review
would determine future lending amounts in the latter part o f the CPS period.
75.     A speaker said that given Mexico’s low outstanding debt to the Bank and the country’s prudent
handling o f i t s external debt, there was wide room for requesting eventual new resources for the country if
the need arose as the turmoil and financial crisis evolved.
76.     A speaker expressed concern about the length o f the CPS timeframe. H e added that even though
the approach was flexible, he did not know if it would remain relevant until 20 13. In this regard, if
management wanted to determine the lending amount after FY11 at the time o f the CPS Progress Report,
he asked that the report be discussed at a full Board meeting.
77.     Staff said that one o f the recommendations in some o f the completion report reviews o f Southern
Cone countries was to align the CAS or the CPS with the electoral cycle. Mexico was the only country in
the hemisphere with a six-year electoral cycle. Recognizing this long period had been part o f the
discussion with the government about the lending program. Mexico had made enormous strides and had
integrated itself into the international markets. It viewed i t s financial relationship with the Bank more
dynamically, having an agreed lending program for the first three years and then reviewing it in light o f
changing market conditions. Staff would use the progress report to provide a comprehensive status report
on the Bank and IFC’s operations.
78.     Bank Gram Coordination. A number o f speakers welcomed the strong collaboration between
IBRD and IFC outlined in the CPS. They welcomed the five sectors identified for collaboration-
housing, health, infrastructure, business-enabling environment, and climate change mitigation, which they
observed were closely linked to the priorities in the National Development Plan.
79.      A speaker noted that IFC had a number o f ongoing activities and new projects in the pipeline. She
welcomed the initiatives on broadening and deepening o f the financial sector, developing infrastructure,
improving the quality o f the health sector, strengthening the investment climate, and promoting good
corporate governance. Another speaker welcomed Mexico’s impending membership in MIGA and asked
about s t a f f s expectation o f i t s implications for the CPS base-case program.
80.    Staff said that the initial use o f MIGA instrumentswould probably build gradually. The key
would be coordination o f overall Bank Group efforts.
8 1.    The Business Model. A speaker asked staff to describe the new business model underpinning the
Mexico country program in financial terms. Specifically, he wanted to know what the overall expected
annual cost o f the country program was, how it broke down between lending and AAA services, and to
what extent it would be covered through lending spreads and fee-for-service cost recovery. H e also
wanted to know the extent to which the Bank Group’s country operations were now located in Mexico
and to what extent the new business model would entail further decentralization.
82.     Staff said that the overall envelope o f budget resources was expected to remain the same, with a
gradual reallocation o f resources from lending to non-lending over time. Most task team leaders were
based in Washington, while almost all o f the country management team was field-based along with key
technical staff, hired both locally and internationally. This situation was likely to continue into the new
CPS period.
83,      A speaker found the mix o f free and fee-based AAA services to be interesting. H e asked about the
structure o f the reimbursable AAA arrangement in terms o f confidentiality and implementation o f
findings and how results would be assessed (i.e., as part o f the CPS or outside o f it).
84.      Staff said that these arrangements had been o f wide-ranging variety in the past, from improving
the business environment at the local level Cjoint IBRD-IFC) to improving impact evaluation at the
                                                                           SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-0013
                                                - 11 -                      Board Meeting o f April 8, 2008

federal level. In this sense, these arrangements had become an integral part o f the Bank’s work program
in Mexico and should be assessed as part o f the overall CPS.
85.    A speaker wanted t o know h o w much o f the annual Bank budget would be freed up to support
enhanced AAA by streamlining financial support into a single DPL.
86.     ComDetitiveness of Bank Lendinp to MICs. A number o f speakers noted that the “streamlined
approach’’ reduced the number o f operations but did not streamline the process o f doing operations. They
emphasized that non-lending costs should be kept t o a minimum. They asked staff t o comment o n the
actual savings as well as the potential broader budget impact resulting from the introduction o f the
streamlined financing approach.
87.      Staff explained that the cost savings would come from a reduction in the number o f operations
under preparation and a gradual reduction over time o f project supervision costs as the portfolio shrank in
size. The budget savings could be o n the order o f US$1 m i l l i o n to US$1.5 million, depending on the
number o f additional investment loans requested beyond the annual DPL. Under the new model there
could also be savings in the preparation o f the annual DPL itself, given the close policy dialogue to be
established under the enhanced program o f AAA services.
88.      A speaker noted the statements in the document that current market conditions and the IBRD
pricing reform placed the cost o f borrowing from the Bank significantly below the government’s external
borrowing costs. H e also noted the statement about the challenge o f providing financing t o Mexico at
competitive interest rates and maturity. H e asked if this referred to domestic placements, in the context o f
a debt management strategy favoring domestic currency financing o f public debt.
89.   Staff said that the IBRD had less o f an edge in local currency financing, due t o the government’s
AAA rating in local markets.
90.      A speaker noted that the Bank had been able to maintain i t s competitiveness through recent
reforms in pricing and maturity and that the sustainability o f i s competitiveness was dependent on the
evolution o f financial market conditions. This approach entailed some risks for the Bank, as Mexico
might reduce i t s borrowing if market conditions were not favorable, and consequently the Bank might
reduce i t s non-lending program for Mexico. H e agreed that this risk could be mitigated by the outstanding
value-added o f the Bank’s services. However, he asked management h o w it intended t o mitigate the
competitiveness risk and what Bank strategy would be used t o retain competitiveness and minimize the
non-financial cost o f borrowing. H e added that this situation might have impacts o n the budget that would
require strategic adjustments.
91.     Staff said that recent price and maturity reforms had been conducive t o competitiveness. The
Bank would need to ensure that the non-financial costs were assessed and minimized and that non-lending
services were aligned with country needs.
92.     Fiduciarv Diapnostics.A speaker stressed that even when countries matured t o the level o f
partnership that Mexico enjoyed with the Bank, core fiduciary diagnostics should be updated. These
diagnostics added value, especially when the country expressed a desire to use country systems. H e was
pleased to learn that subnational fiduciary diagnostics might be undertaken.
93.     Results Framework. A number o f speakers welcomed management’s plans to adjust the
portfolio review process t o a more results-oriented and AAA-driven direction. This they believed would
also contribute to keeping the Bank’s knowledge services competitive while feeding into the Bank’s o w n
learning. They encouraged management to engage in a continuous dialogue with the authorities to gain
feedback on service delivery, thus maintaining the Bank’s responsiveness.
94.       A speaker acknowledged that the approach proposed in the CPS t o decrease the non-financial
costs o f borrowing might be appropriate for Mexico, but he cautioned against the broad use o f CPSs that
did not outline clear work programs or measurable results o n which t o assess Bank performance in other
countries with less capacity than Mexico. As further experience was gained, he suggested that policies
                                                                           SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-0013
                                                -12-                        Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

and guidance governing country strategies be updated to account for such differences when determining
the nature o f the CPS to be used. Given the budget-support nature o f the predominant part o f the
envisaged lending, another speaker asked how staff would respond to IEG’s remarks about the need for
appropriate evaluation and monitoring methods and for fleshing out the results framework during
implementation o f the CPS.
95.     Staff said that the annual CPPR would be adjusted in two ways in the coming period: it would be
more results-focused, and it would incorporate AAA products. The enhanced results focus was requested
by the Mexican Secretariat o f Finance (SHCP) during the 2007 CPPR. The incorporation o f AAA was
consistent with the new business model, which would result in AAA products outnumbering lending
products. This annual review o f AAA, prepared and implemented within a CPPR framework, would add
an element o f quality control that might be especially useful for fee-based or just-in-time services.
96.      Prowess Reports. Given the innovative nature o f the instrument used in the CPS, a speaker said
that he looked forward to the progress report in F Y 11. Another speaker noted the plans to adjust the
annual CPPR to include a greater focus and to incorporate AAA products and the possibility o f annual
MOUs that would outline the AAA program planned for the year. Combined with information on the
operational pipeline, he f e l t that these documents could serve as the basis for a strategy update note that
could be presented annually to the Board for information.
97.     Donor Collaboration. A speaker noted that the CPS Completion Report contained a brief
description o f collaboration between the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
However, there was no mention o f expectations for the new CPS period. H e asked staff to comment on
plans in this regard.
98.     Staff said that the Bank would continue to collaborate effectively with the IDB in selected areas.
For example, they were currently working closely together on a government program for results-based
budgeting and management. Procurement and financial management issues were also addressedjointly.
99.     Closinp Remarks o f the Executive Director ReDresentinp Mexico. The Executive Director
whose constituency includes Mexico thanked Board colleagues for their written statements and comments
and thanked the Bank Group team involved in the CPS. H e described it as an important and welcome
document, because it was the operationalization o f the M I C Strategy and it would help strengthen the
partnership between Mexico and the Bank. H e also recognized the many changes in policy and new
financial instruments that the president o f the Bank had promoted in the last few months that had made
possible the CPS and the renewed partnership with Mexico. The Mexican government was well aware o f
the Bank’s responsiveness and was grateful for it.
100.   Chairman’s Concludinp Remarks. The chairman summarized the meeting. The Chairman’s
Concluding Remarks were subsequently circulated as R2007-0046/2 [IFC/R2008-0060/2], dated April 11,
2008.
11.     Climate Chanpe Development Policy L o a n
101.     S u m o r t for the Loan. A large number o f speakers expressed support for the Development
Policy Loan o f US$500 million (with Deferred Drawdown Option) that would assist the country to
integrate climate change considerations into public policy.
 102.    A number o f speakers congratulated the government for adopting the National Climate Change
Strategy (NCCS), which showed i t s commitment to place climate change at the heart o f the national
development policy agenda. They also commended Mexico’s intention to adopt voluntary emission
reduction targets, confirming i t s leading role among developing nations in advancing actions aimed at
tackling climate change. Several o f them said that this set a good example for other big emitter countries
as well.
                                                                           SD2008-0021; IFC/SD2008-0013
                                                - 13 -                      Board Meeting o f April 8,2008

103.     A speaker said that in light o f IEG’s findings o f shortfalls in meeting outcome targets in Bank-
supported environmental programs in Mexico, h      e would have appreciated clearer targets on the results
attributable to t h e Bank’s support.
104.     Clean Technolow Fund. A speaker welcomed Mexico’s interest in participating in the
multilateral Clean Technology Fund (CTF), which he hoped would be established later this year. This
D P L would help Mexico further develop its low-carbon growth strategy, which could be a key component
for the CTF.
105. Risk Analysis. A speaker expressed concern about risk analysis in the program document. H e
questioned the assumption that the lack o f commitment to climate change by other countries might
damage support for the reform agenda. H e commented that many developing countries were taking major
steps to address climate change issues as part o f their national development strategies. Moreover, he felt
that it should be made clear that the purpose o f the DPL was to help Mexico address climate change, not
to create an enabling environment for further international commitments, as was claimed in the document.
Further international commitment was a political issue. H e urged management to pay attention to this and
respect the assurance that the Bank’s involvement in climate change would not influence the political
process o f the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
