Report No. PID9898
Project Name                     Vietnam-Safe Blood (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Primary Health; Including Reproductive
Health; Chi
Project ID                       VNPE73305
Borrower(s)                      SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 13, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 28, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 11, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Overall health sector issues include:    (a) relatively low government
expenditures on health (about US$3 per capita in 1996); (b) a skewed
distribution of health subsidies; (c) lack of a clear strategy for the
sector that results from a blend of overlapping and sometimes conflicting
approaches--socialist principles of equity and state responsibility, a
market-oriented view of user contributions, and international paradigms
for improving health care; and (d) weak capacity for coordination and
implementation of health planning and administration; and (e) inadequate
incentives and lack of a supportive regulatory environment for increased
private provision of quality health care.The Bank's Poverty and Assessment
Report provides the most comprehensive analysis to date of the extent to
which the general public has lost confidence in the government health
service and the extent to which access to health services is far from
equitable. About two-thirds of those who are sick resort to
self-medication rather than seeking any type of formal care. Typically
the poor make less use of public sector providers than do the better off;
while only 12t of the sick poor use any kind of   public sector provider,
nearly twice as many of the richest quintile do so.    More than 80t of the
public health budget is spent on curative care in hospitals, which the
poor use least. Yet public subsidies contribute to only a third of
spending associated with hospitals. In short, the poor have weak access
to those services that are most subsidized. Greatly diminished use of the
public providers has not led to a concomitant growth in private provision
(though a good deal of "private" consultation takes place in public
facilities, which is sometimes officially sanctioned and sometimes not).
There is a lack of adequate regulations governing private practice that
can ensure that medical standards are set and enforced. This inhibits
potential private practice as individuals/firms are unsure what the rules
are that might impact on the success of their potential practice. The
Government has limited capacity to address the above issues and needs
external support to initiate substantial changes. Few senior MOH
officials have had in-depth exposure to the principles of health care
provision in the new market-oriented context in which the Ministry has
been suddenly thrust. Government does have in place a reasonably sound



strategy for primary health care, supported by considerable donor
resources, although there are many implementation problems. It is weakly
positioned, however, to address the broader policy challenges of health
financing and health expenditures in the new market-economy context and
how to reconcile these concerns with the long-standing commitment in the
sector to equity. It also has not begun to think seriously about the need
to move beyond the traditional role of MOH as a supplier of medical
services to one where it assumes much more of a regulatory role, with a
much reduced function in public health financing and in public provision
of only selected services.                          The role that safe blood
should play in the sector has not been systematically analyzed and
articulated by the government. The government has, however, identified
numerous problems with the blood supply system. These include the fact
that in many district hospitals blood transfused in emergencies is not
tested. It is estimated that less than ten percent of the estimated need
for blood is currently being met. A major need comes from traffic
accidents, the leading cause of death in 1996. Safe blood is also
especially important for women and children--in developing countries a
high proportion of blood transfusions are given to women and children (a
1994 study in Kenya showed that 64t of transfusions were for children
under 15. Twenty percent of blood in Uganda is for post-partum
hemorrhage). The general shortage of blood means that only some of the
larger hospitals are able to maintain blood stocks. Perhaps most worrying
is the fact that 80-85t of the blood supply is collected from professional
donors thus raising the likelihood that blood-borne diseases are spread
through transfusions. For all of these reasons, confidence in the blood
system is very low, in turn undermining the credibility of the whole
health system. However, it also seems clear that demand for safe blood
will increase over time, particularly with an increase in blood-borne
diseases, and thus its importance to the sector will grow.While all of the
above considerations provide important reasons for the government to
support safe blood, a very important reason stems from the threat of the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. AIDS will not only increase the demand for care but
will also reduce the supply available at a given price. Most importantly,
the AIDS epidemic has greatly increased the risk to patients of existing
medical procedures. Simply maintaining the level of safety that existed
before HIV requires additional hygiene and blood screening, both of which
raise the cost of health care. Unless current constraints to increasing
the supply of safe blood in Vietnam are overcome, its price will rise
substantially. Thus, a central rationale for investing in safe blood in
very poor countries is to help the government cushion the effects of the
shock of the epidemic and maintain an essential level of care. See Chapter
4 in Confronting AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic, World
Bank, 1997.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to reduce morbidity and mortality due
to situations in which there is either insufficient or unsafe blood by
increasing the supply of safe blood and improving blood safety. This will
in turn contribute to an overall goal of improving the health status of
the Vietnamese population.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value of Bank involvement to date in Vietnam has been its capacity to
utilize its investments to introduce a strong policy element in projects
- 2 -



and to press for critical system reforms in a sector that has been notably
resistant to outside involvement in policy matters. Other bilateral
donors have done this to a much lesser extent focusing instead primarily
on program implementation issues. The MOH is increasingly indicating its
appreciation for the Bank's broader sector/macro perspective. The project
will provide the Bank with a vehicle, in the context of its partnership
with UNAIDS-Vietnam, to press for other critical actions that will also
need to be undertaken if the HIV/AIDS threat is to be successfully
countered, including the articulation of a national AIDS policy. In
addition, the Bank can draw upon its growing wide experience around the
world with projects in the HIV/AIDS arena and bring this experience to
bear on the Vietnamese situation.
4. Description
1. National Blood Transfusion Policy and Institutional Framework: create
a national blood policy and national standards for the collection,
screening, storage and transfusion of blood; strengthen three or more
regional centers for the administration and supervision of
testing/transfusion services; encourage expansion of private sector blood
testing/services
2. Blood Safety Equipment: provide essential screening kits and blood
transfusion and laboratory equipment necessary for the proper collection,
storage and distribution of blood
3. Blood Safety Skills: improve the testing and blood handling skills of
doctors and laboratory staff
4. Voluntary Blood Donor Recruitment Systems: develop and implement a
strategy for regional voluntary blood donor recruitment systems
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       US$30.0 million
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a five-year period. The
institutional arrangements are still to be largely defined. The primary
technical counterpart team will be the Institute for Hematology and Blood
Transfusion (NIHBT) in the MOH, which is currently responsible for setting
national blood testing and transfusion guidelines. While the broad
oversight functions of the NIHBT will probably continue, agreement will
need to be reached with the Ministry on the appropriate number and
functions of regional centers, their relationship with the NIHBT and with
provincial and district hospitals.    Second, there will need to be close
links with the National AIDS Committee (NAC) to ensure essential
coordination on standards/procedures/policies for HIV/AIDS testing. This
relationship already exists to some extent as the NIHBT falls under the
NAC organizational umbrella. More routine functions in project
preparation and implementation (e.g., procurement, disbursement,
accounting, monitoring and evaluation, etc.) will be implemented by the
Project Management Unit (PMU) of the NHSP. This unit is already familiar
with Bank procedures and is gaining more experience over time. There is
precedent for such a PMU-institute relationship in that the PMU performs
these functions in the NHSP for the MOH TB and Malaria Institutes. This
- 3-



should substantially reduce the time normally lost in bringing a project
unit up to speed when the borrower is relatively new to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
Institutional: Increased devolution of responsibility to regional
centers rather than holding this in Hanoi would likely increase local
commitment to implementing and maintaining a sustainable blood supply
system. The challenge is how to do this while still maintaining a central
mechanism for continually upgrading quality standards and keeping Vietnam
abreast of new developments elsewhere.Financial: Building and maintaining
a national blood supply service is relatively expensive as testing kits
and other supplies like plastic blood bags usually need to be imported.
This inevitably means some degree of increased public expenditures and
raises the question of how such expenditures would be sustained over
time. Cost recovery will therefore be critical to making the blood supply
system sustainable. Mobilizing a reliable, safe cadre of blood donors is
perhaps the most important "supply side" intervention for keeping costs
down, thus helping to make sustainability more likely. Cost recovery in
training will also be explored.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The two Vietnam projects listed above are now making progress but only
after very slow and rocky beginnings. This has been partly a function of
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures but more importantly a rigid government
bureaucracy (both in the line and core agencies) that has been slow to
adopt new approaches necessary for project implementation--e.g., for
prompt approval and disbursement of project funds--despite strong
commitment by the line agencies to project objectives. This has been also
true in the Bank's Vietnam primary education project. Future projects
would be unwise to ignore these realities and to assume that
administrative and organizational changes can be put in place quickly.The
India project is an example of how an initial request to support safe
blood led to a subsequent more comprehensive approach to addressing
general HIV/AIDS issues. Because safe blood had such widespread political
appeal, this led to political commitment and ownership by a range of
stakeholders, which was in turn mobilized for wider anti-HIV/AIDS
efforts. Another interesting observation from this project is that
problems in maintaining quality in blood safety are greater in the private
sector than in the public sector. The E.U. project was initiated out of
concern over very high HIV prevalence rates given that the epidemic was
already widespread when the project began. It illustrates how a
successful BTS can be built in a relatively short time given strong
political will and sufficient resources.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Proper disposal of all waste/equipment/supplies in
connection with blood testing and handling will be the primary issue to be
addressed. Typically this involves incineration in Vietnam wherever
serious efforts at disposal are undertaken and alternatives to this option
need to be explored.
11. Contact Point:
-4-



Task Manager
L. Richard Meyers
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)473-3727
Fax:   (202)522-3394
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 16, 2001.
- 5 -



