Report No. 23988
Report No: I073305 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: VIETNAM         Project ID: P073305
Project: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project        Task Team Leader: L.
Richard Meyers
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 17, 2001          IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 16, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 38.20
Managing Unit: EASHD     Sector: HO - Hospitals; Secondary & Tertiary
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)         Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project development objective is to secure the health benefits of safe
blood transfusions for the population covered by hospitals served by
Regional Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTCs)
I.A.3. Project Description:
1.    Development of the Hanoi Regional Blood Transfusion Center (RBTC):
Supports the following regional programs:
(a) voluntary donation recruitment; (b) blood bank operations; (c)
effective clinical use of blood; (d) quality management; (e) RBTC staff
development; and (f) facility and logistics management; and (g) the costs
of resettement or compensation associated with households' loss of land or
other assets due to the selection of the site.
2.    Development of Hue RBTC (supports regional programs as in Component
1 a-f)
3.    Development of Ho Chi Minh City RBTC (supports regional programs as
in Component 1 a-f)
4.    Development of Can Tho RBTC (supports regional programs as in
Component 1)
5.    National Support and Capacity Building for the RBTCs by the National
Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion. Supports:
(a) the four RBTC's regional programs; (b) development of a blood services
financing policy; (c) training for future RBTCs; and (d) project
management.
Components:
(1). Development of Hanoi RBTC; (2) Development of Hue RBTC ; (3)
Development of Ho Chi Minh City RBTC; (4) Development of Can Tho RBTC; and
(5)National Support and Capacity Building



I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The target population consists of people who live in communities likely to
obtain access to hospitals supported by safe blood services from four
Regional Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTCs) supported by the project. The
four RBTCs will cover a total population of 30 million in 21 provinces
served by 180 hospitals. The four RBTCs will be located in the cities of
Hanoi, Hue, Ho Chi Minh City and Can Tho. The Hue and Ho Chi Minh City
RBTCs will be built on land already owned by existing hospitals and the
Can Tho center on land owned by the provincial government. The Hanoi RBTC
will be built on a new site to by allocated to the Ministry of Health by
the Hanoi Peoples' Committee. There are no issues with respect to
protected, critical natural habitats or culturally sensitive areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)      Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental. The project will involve the production of the following
categories of hospital waste: general infectious waste, pathologic waste
and chemical waste and sharps. The current management and disposal of
these categories of hospital wastes at the project sites were assessed by
an international consulting firm with specific expertise in environmental
waste management. It was determined that management of these wastes was
not up to international standards. As a result, the project will take
specific actions to address these concerns (see II.D. 3 below).
Social. Project activities in Hue and Ho Chi Minh City will occur in new
buildings constructed on the grounds of existing hospitals. In Hanoi, a
building will be constructed at a new site to be located some distance
-2 -



from the Bach Mai Hospital. The regional blood transfusion center in Can
Tho will be located immediately adjacent to the new regional hospital that
is being constructed.    Construction of new buildings under the project
and implementation of other project activities in Hue and Ho Chi Minh City
therefore will not involve displacement or relocation of any households or
businesses. In Hanoi, the Hanoi People's Committee will allocate a site
for the RBTC in an area appropriately zoned for such use.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Environmental. The project costs include investments for hospital waste
management measures to eliminate the worst environmental risks associated
with project activities and the incremental recurrent costs required for
continued implementation of these waste management measures. The
investments will include training of waste management staff, waste
collection buckets, labels and information materials, trolleys and buckets
for internal transport of hospital waste, and new or improved waste
treatment facilities in two project sites (Hue and Can Tho). The
incremental recurrent costs include improved quality waste collection
bags, puncture-proof containers for sharps, replacements for buckets and
trolleys, and supplies for running waste treatment facilities.
Social.   As the Hanoi site is still to be identified through negotiations
between the MOH and the People's Committee, the Government has agreed to
use of a Resettlement Policy Framework for addressing any safeguard
requirements that the site might entail once identified. IDA disbursement
for civil works and goods contracts for the new site will be authorized
only when all safeguard requirements have been met. A Resettlement Action
Plan (RAP) was prepared for Can Tho. One family is currently living on
the site and will be relocated in accordance with IDA's resettlement
policy. Some 32 households utilize the existing site for agricultural
purposes. The provincial government will provide these households with
alternative land and/or compensation in cash for any loss of assets in
full compliance with IDA's resettlement policy.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
With respect to resettlement, drafts of the Resettlement Policy Framework
for the Hanoi RBTC and of the RAP for the Can Tho RBTC have been
disclosed locally and provided to IDA's InfoShop.
- 3 -



E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/23/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/23/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           1/25/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       L. Richard Meyers        3/18/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name     Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Glenn S. Morgan 4/01/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Emmanuel Y. Jimenez     3/20/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



