MINISTRY OF HEALTH
CAN THO PROVINCIAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT
RP79
v.1
VETNAM: REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTERS PROJECT
MEKONG DELTA BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTER
SUB-PROJECT
CAN THO PROVINCE
Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP)
DRAFT JANUARY 2002
CAN THO JANUARY 2002
1        t~~ILL.
t;''~~~



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1. The project
The overall objective of the proposed Regional Blood Transfusion Centers
Project (RBTCP) is to secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusion for the
population covered by the project's four regional transfusion centers (RBTCs), to be
located in Hanoi, Hue, Ho Chi Minh City and Can Tho. The RBTCP, funded by the
World Bank (WB), is under the MOH's management that aims at supplying technical
infrastructure and facilities of the blood transfusion centers and is expected to be
implemented over a five-year period.
The RBTC site for the Mekong Delta of Vietnam would be located in Can Tho
Province, a center of the Mekong Delta (MD), where is the density population but the
people's living standards is still low compared to the whole country. Therefore, MOH
and the Can Tho Provincial People's Committee give priority to invest in this center for
the MD region.
The Can Tho RBTC site (sub-project) would be located along the road no. 91B,
belongs to Can Tho City, Binh An Village, Loi Nguyen Ward. The area would be
acquired for the sub-project is about 10,000 m2, of which 6,000 m2 would be used for
the project construction.
The Sub-Project schedule will be mobilized in 6/2002 and the construction period
shall be completed during 2002-2006
2. The project impact and compensation policy
In order to minimize the adverse impacts, the vacant area is proposed. Acquiring the area
of residential land owned by 32 households, there are only one house and one house
foundation were constructed in this area, the other plots are vacant. There have been few
fruit trees, trees planted, none of families use land for annual crops or business/
services. Except one family who is living in this area, the others have houses and living in
other places. Consider the impacted extent, compensation in cash at the substitution costs/
market price for tress, crops and residential land in term of "land for land", assist one
family to be relocated should be enough. No impact on income generation, I therefore a
rehabilitation programs are not necessary.
Compensation prices are defined according to tariffs established by the province
(Decisions 1279, 1280) and based on the State Decree 87-CP. Since such prices may not
correspond to market or substitution rates, therefore, all rates/prices will be checked
again and if necessary, to be adjusted at the very beginning of the project
implementation.
2



The site to be used for this subproject was officially decided by the PPC of Can
Tho, Decision No. 100 QD-UB, dated on January 11, 2002.
3. Legal framework
The entitlement policy shall comply with Vietnamese Decrees 22 CP and 87 CP on
compensation and the World Bank OP 4.12 on involuntary resettlement. In order to
obtain the compliance with OD 4.30, the GOV will give waivers to pay compensation
and assist the Project Affected People: (i) at subsituLion cost: (ii) all PAPs with or with<out
land registratioi) papers. Flhe Resettlement Policy framework was reviewed bv MOCI. the
letter to contirm tor the agreemnent oll these waivers will be senit to the Bank before
neLgotiation.
Compensation for losses of PAPs who are listed in PAP inventory, or are able to
prove that they occupied their plots before the cut-off-date (January 20, 2002) which is
the date of conclusion of the PAP inventory.
4. Implementation arrangements
The project owner is Ministry of Health (MOH). The Provincial Department of
Health (DOH) of Can Tho is authorized by MOH to manage, to sign the design contract
and bidding document and to supervise the projects, RAP implementation and internal
monitoring are also included.
DOH of Can Tho is responsible for surveying the project impacts 9census and
inventory). A survey team including the representatives of General Hospital, Land
Administration of An Binh Commune and Provincial Cadastral Office.
5. Consultation and participation
In the phase of RAP preparation, the following institutions are consulted:
(i)The Provincial People Committee of Can Tho, (ii) Directoral Board of Can Tho
general hospital, (iii) Provincial Cadastral Department Representatives, (iv) Housing
development and trade company, (v) An Binh Commune, and (vi) all PAPs. Some
meetings have been held in the period from December 20, 2001 to January 20, 2002 for
discussing on the proposed project site, site for compensation, compensation rates,
resttlement policy, and options of PAPs for mode of compensation. All decision and
feedback from PAPs are integrated into this RAP policy.
6. Cost estimate and budget
S. 18  The counterpart fund shall be used for compensation. The estimated cost of the
Sub-project RAP is 17,087,061,000 VND, equivalent to about 1,139,140 $UD
3



As mentioned above, there are only about 32 families ( about 15 persons) to be affected
by acquiring their vacant land, impacted intensity is very low, and therefore only Short
Resettlement Action Plan is prepared.
Chapter I
Project Background
1.1. Project Description and it objective
The overall objective of the proposed Regional Blood Transfusion Centers
Project (RBTCP) is to secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusion for the
population covered by the project's four regional transfusion centers (RBTCs), to be
located in Hanoi, Hue, Ho Chi Minh City and Can Tho. This objective will be achieved
through the development of regional programs in each RBTC on: (a) voluntary blood
donations recruitment; (b) blood bank operation; and (c) effective clinical use of blood;
(d) quality management; (e) RBTC staff development; and (f) facility and logistics
management. In addition, a national support and capacity building program will support:
(a) the four RBTC regional programs; (b) development of a blood services financing
policy; (c) training for future RBTCs; and (d) project management. The RBTCP is
expected to be implemented over a five-year period.
The RBTCP will support the development of a regional program in Can Tho
Province that will address the blood transfusion needs of the Mekong Delta in Southern
Vietnam. The RBTC will be located in Can Tho, the capital of the Mekong Delta (MD).
The MD is an area of highly dense population where people's living conditions are still
relatively poor compared to overall country standards. Therefore, MOH and the Can Tho
Provincial People's Committee (PPC) have given priority to investing in this RBTC,
using a World Bank (WB) loan, in order to improve one critical aspect of the overall
health system in this region, namely, blood safety.
1.2 The subproject in Can Tho
"The Can Tho RBTC site" covers an area of about 01 ha, located along the road
91B (see Pictures 1.01 and 1.02), 01km far from the National Road No. 1 on the
Western, this center would be located in Binh An Village, Loi Nguyen Ward.
1.3 Affected and served area
The sub-project area is on the roadside, inner ring road of the City, within the
developing urban place of An Binh Commune, Can Tho City. The sub-project area
mainly occupies mostly vacant area which are owned by 32 families, where have only
one house and the other house foundation were constructed. There have been few trees
planted, none of families use land for annual crops or business / services for economic
generation.
4



The area would be acquired for the sub-project is about 10,000 m2, of which the
net area is 6,000 m2 to be used for the project construction. (see picture 1.03).
1.4 Ownership and organization of the project
The project owner is Ministry of Health (MOH). The Can Tho Provincial
Department of Health (DOH) is authorized by MOH for managing, signing the design
contract and bidding document and to supervise, monitor the project, RAP
implementation within their management areas.
5



Chapter II
RESETTLEMENT POLICIES AND ENTITLEMENTS
2.1 LEGAL FRAMEWORK
The overall objectives of RAP have been guided by both the Vietnamese law and
the WB policy on involuntary resettlement (0.P 4.12). The following Vietnamnese laws,
stipulations, degrees are applied:
- The 1993 Land law of 7/141993
- The Government Decree No 22/1998 CP-NN of 4/24/1998 on the compensation for
damage when State recover land for National defense, security, national interests and
public interests.
- The Government Decree No 64/ CP of 9/27/1993 on the distribution agricultural land
to the households in long term for the agricultural purpose.
- The Government Decree No 87/ CP of 8/17/1995 on the stipulation of the frame for
the price of land types.
- Circulation No 05-BXD/DT of 2/9/1993 on the classification of the house types.
- Decision of the Provinces for the unit prices of compensation.
- Decision of the Provinces on for the land recover for the purposes of public interests.
- The Circular 145/1998/TT-BTC, November 4th, 1999 of the Ministry of Finance to
guide for compensation
In addition, the decisions issued by the Can Tho PPC have been applied:
- Degree 1279/1998/QD.UBT, dated on 5/6/1998, on the prices of lands
- Degree 1280/1998/QD.UBT, dated on 5/6/1998, on compensation of properties lost;
- Degree 60/1999/QD.UBT, dated on 30/6/1999, on the prices of houses and
infrastructures
2.2 DEFINITION OF ELIGIBILITY AND LIMITATION TO ELIGIBILITY
All individuals, households, firms or institution (hereafter called generically the
project affected households or PAPs) with or without land registration papers who
owned, rented, or used land, properties and businesses affected by the project will be
entitled to full compensation for their respective losses as long as they are included in
the PAPs inventory list or can prove that they used the affected items before the cut-off
date. The same applies to PAPs whose incomes are affected by the project.
The cut-off date has been fixed as the day of inventory completion that is on
January 20, 2002. rThs Jaic waS ofliialir ciccikred to lAPs 1w An Binh commune
a,lihoritics on Jinuary 22. 2002.
6



Encroachers who settled into the proposed affected area after the cut-off date will
have no entitlement to compensation and resettlement. They will be required to demolish
their structures and cut the trees for land clearance to the project. In the case necessary,
they will be forced to be removed out the proposed project area. Nevertheless, they do
not have to pay any fine or sanction.
2.3 RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION POLICY
Policies and objectives of this RAP are defined in accordance with Vietnamese
laws and OP 4.12 of WB on Involuntary Resettlement. Vietnamese legislation and WB
directives have been applied to fit the specific conditions of the project defined as below
1.   Resettlement and compensation programs must be designed so as to allow the
improvement or at least the maintenance of the PAP's pre-project living standards.
2.   Both resettlement and land acquisition must be minimized as much as possible
3.   Resettlement distant must be minimized if the agricultural replacement land needs
to be given, it should be as close as possible to the land that was lost.
4.   Cash compensation for houses/or structures shall be given at the substitution costs
free from depreciation cost of the salvage of the old construction materials, while cash
compensation for land and crops/trees shall be given at the marker-price rates.
5.   Resettlement transition period must be minimized and the compensation should be
provided to PAPs before the beginning the construction activities affecting them, no land
clearance if the full compensation have not been done.
6.   All PAPs residing/or cultivating land within the project area before the cut-off date
are entitled to have compensation for their losses and to income rehabilitation.
7.   Resettlement and land acquisition plans and all the replacement alternatives should
be carried out following consultation with the affected population and it should have
popular acceptant of PAPs. The plans are also required to be approved by local
authorities.
8.   Resettlement and compensation programs must provide adequate institutional
arrangements to warrant effective and timely implementation and proper monitoring.
9.   Financial and technical resources for the resettlement, land compensation and
subsidies should be available when and where required.
10. The previous level of community services and resources should be maintained or
improved in the new sites
7



II. Once approved by the Government of Vietnam what stipulated in this RAP will be
enforceable as an official legal document.
2.4 ENTITLEMENT POLICY
2.4.1 Compensation
Compensation for land losses less than 25% of total area PAPs' holdings will be
provided in cash at the substitution cost.
Compensation for land losses more than 25% of total area PAPs' holdings will be
provided in terms of land for land arrangements (the same areas of land lost and the
same land types).
Compensation for houses, structures will be compensated in cash at the
substitution cost, no deduction of depreciation for salvageable materials.
Perennial trees and other assets will be compensated at the substitution cost and
annual crop at market prices.
2.4.2 Allowances and subsidies:
PAPs will be assisted with the followings, depend on their cases of impacts:
Table 1: Allowances and subsidies
Allowances/subsidies                       Subsidies
- Resettlement Allowance             VND    150,000 per head-month in 6
months for PAHs having houses partially
l_____________________________________ or fully impacted and have to be relocated
- Relocation  allowance (transport of VND 2,000,000/HH for PAPs entitling to
material and furniture)              house relocation
Business allowance                    3 million VND for each PAPs
Households of war veterans or revolution Fixed allowance of 1 million VND
hero allowance (HH have to be relocated)
Movement incentive (on time movement)  VND 5,000,000 per family
2.4.3 Impacted Categories and Entitlement Matrix
Based on the impacts of the subproject, there are 04 impacted categories as the
followings:
Category 1: Permanently Impact on land in the site
8



(a) Compensation for land losses less than 25% of total area PAPs' holdings will
be provided in cash at the substitution cost.
(b) Compensation for land losses more than 25% of total area PAPs' holdings
will be provided in terms of land for land arrangements (the same areas of land lost and
the samne land types) or in cash at substitutioni cost depend on the PAPs' optionls
Category 2: Temporarily Impact land (by construction of the subproject)
Compensation for trees and other assets at the substitution costs, crops at market price for
the number of crops to be affected.
Relevelling land before hand over land to the owners.
Category 3: Impact on house, structures
Compensation in cash at the substitution cost, no deduction of depreciation and
salvageable materials.
Category 4: Impact on trees and crops
Compensation in cash at market price.
The entitlement matrix is as below:
9



Entitlement Matrix
No              Type of loss            Application        Definition of      Compensation         Implementation
entitled            policy               issues
PAPs
Permanently Impact on land   All PAPd     have   PAPs with/without                       -    Land/    cash
in the site                  land    in    the   land    certificate                    compensation to PAP
(a) Compensation  for land   proposed   project  included  in  the                      at least three months
losses less than 25% of total  area              PAPs inventory or  (a) in cash at the  prior    to    land
area PAPs' holdings will be                      able to prove land  substitution cost.  clearance  for  the
provided   in cash at the                        occupancy or item                      subproject.
substitution cost.                               use pnior to  cut-                      - Grant land use right
(b) Compensation for land                        off date                               certificate to PAPs
losses more than 25% of total                                       (b) land for land
area PAPs' holdings will be                                         arrangements (the
provided in terms of land for                                       same areas of land
land arrangements (the same                                         lost and the same
areas of land lost and the                                          land types; or casi
same land types).                                                    wCrttdimlt t) :i>
_ptiOnf
2        Temporarily Impact land      All PAP who are     PAPs with/without  Compensation for    Full compensation
temporarily        land certificate    trees and other     At least one month
impacted on land                       assets at the       prior    to    land
substitution costs,  acquisition  for the
crops at market     construction     of
price for the       subproject.
number of crops to
be affected.
3        Impact on house, structures  All  PAPs   have    PAPs        have   - Compensation in   full   compensation
houses   in   the   houses/structures  cash     at    the  and
atfected area      in the affected area  substitution  cost,  allowance/subsidy
before the cut-off  no  deduction  of   payment   at  least
date               depreciation   and   three months prior to
salvageable         land clearance for the
materials.          subproject.
-Resettlement
allowance.
-Relocation
________   _ _____________________________  _ ___________________        allow ance         _________alow nc
4        Impact on trees and crops    All PAPs have       PAPs have trees,   Compensation in     Full compensation at
trees, crops in the   crops fisted before  cash at market  least on month pior
affected area       the cut-off date   price.              to land   acquisition
for the project
10



Chapter III
SOCIOECONOMIC SURVEY AND BASELINE INFOMATION
3.1 THE SOCIOECONOMIC SURVEY
Preparation work
To get base-line information on the Sub-project status, the mission to visit the
proposed site was carried out from December 26, 2001 to December 28, 2001. The
following activities executed during the mission:
(a) Held the meetings with the involved agencies including:
Directorial Board and staff of Can Tho General Hospital
Provincial People's Committee of Can Tho
Provincial Department of Cadastral and its Survey and Mapping Center
Housing Development and Trade Company
An Binh Communal Authorities where the Blood Transfusion Center will be
located and the PAPs would be relocated
(b) Visit the proposed site for the project and interview some people whose land would
be appropriated for the project.
(c) Review compensation rates and compensation policy of Can Tho Province for
involuntary resettlement.
(d) Visit sites which would be used for land compensation.
(e) Collect data and the documents concerning the Sub-project at DOH Office, the ACB
land market in Can Tho City
In addition, the statistics on the project impacts, socio-economic data on PAPs
were also collected. These data are used not only for RAP but also for the Sub-project
preparation and evaluation of the project socio-economic benefits.
The survey forms were prepared for PAPs having house and land in the affected
area. The forms contains the basic information on socioeconomic status of the PAPs who
will be served by the Sub-project. The form was explained and guided by the
socioeconomic Consultants to An Binh Commune Representatives who will be the
surveyors. There have been 40 forms given to them and the schedule of the survey was
also requested by the Bank Consultant (see the census formns enclosed).
11



Based on the site visit (on December 26, 2001), the Mission recognized that there
have been one PAP living while the other having house foundation constructed in the
proposed subproject area. The rest PAPs are living outside of the area.
Summarize process for consultations on the results of the surveys
The socio-economic survey on PAPs aims at identifying characteristics of
affected households, population, houses, main economic activities etc. The survey data
will be used for making resettlement policy and evaluating restoration of living
standards.
The Director of Can Tho General Hospital, Vice Director of DOH, held the
meeting with PPC and its relevant departments/institutions on January 5th,2002 for
discussing and officially finalizing the site for compensation and compensation rates.
As project procedure, the permission of the land acquisition for the sub-project
was issued by the PPC on January 11, 2002 then the sub-project area boundary was
made by the staff of the Provincial Land Administration Office (PLAO) on January 15,
2001. The announcement of the land acquisition for the Sub-project stated by the public
communication on January 15,2002. The PAPs were invited for a meeting to be held on
January 22, 2002 by the An Binh Authority. The survey forms were delivered to PAPs
with the clear explanation. The questions rise by the PAPs during the meeting and the
answers were also made.
During the consultation meeting, the Representatives of An Binh Commune,
Cadastral Department and DOH have announced the PPC Decision of land acquisition to
the PAPs, the options on compensation for land ("land for land" or cash), proposed unit
price applied for house/structures and lands and introduced a draft compensation policy
to them. In addition, the PAPs have been shown the proposed location to be applied
"land for land" and the prices of plots here. All of' PAP losliig nmore than 25' , o01total
lanicd their holdings al the at1l-eted site opted --land for land". Their options will be
olliciallv tinalize at the very beginning of the subproject implementation.
The results of the socio-economic survey
Household characteristics:
The average number of people per household is 4.7, a bit lower than that of the
whole country (4.97). Large households usually comprise of 3-4 generations. Most
households (83.4%) are headed by men, female heads of households are mostly windows
(58%). The young people (0,17 years) represent 50.4%. The productive age group
(18,54 years) accounts for 40.9%. Old people (over 55 years) take 8.7%. Table 2 shown
the households characteristics.
Table 2: Population distribution by age group
12



Age              Male                   Female                   Total
group     Number     Percentage   Number      Percentage   Number    Percentage
0-17        26        49.5         29           51.3        71         50.4
18-54       35         41.9        739          39.8         58        40.9
> 55        5          8.8          6            8.9         1 1        8.7
Total       66                      74                       140
Livin' standards
About 27 PAPs are farmers and 07 PAPs are loca government officials. Most of them
have TV, running water, motorcycle, and furniture. Monthly income of family varies
from 1,000,000 VND to 3,000,000 VND.
There re not any ethnic minorities to be affected by the subproject.
3.2 THE PROJECT IMPACTS
The subproject impacts are on residential land (10,000m2) and properties
associated with land, trees and crops within the sub-project site. Totally 32 PAPs who
will be entitled to be compensated and assisted.
There would be no temporary acquisition on land for construction because
transportation to the construction site is convenient.
The total permanent acquisition of land is about 10,000 m2 (60 m x 167 m), of
which no agricultural land, 2000 m2 is garden (20%) and 8000 m2 is residential land
(80%).
There would be 32 PAPs (140 persons) would be affected:
- 01 family affected on house and have to be relocated
- 01 family affected on house foundation.
- 32 families affected by permanently acquire residential and garden land for the project
(30 are still vacant plots).
- 32 families affected on trees, annual crops, of these:
+ Mango trees: 65
+ Orange trees: 7
+ Pomelo: 3
13



+ Durian: 3
+ Coconut trees: 20
+ Papaya: 01
+ other trees: 35
+ Access path: 250m
14



Chapter IV
SITES FOR REPLACEMENT LAND
As mentioned, most of PAPs opted for land compensation, therefore, two sites to
be used for compensation were discussed and agreed by Can Tho PPC.
Site 1: Covening 34 ha in total, of which 13 ha will be developed for resident and
remaining area will be used for other purposes, this site locates on the opposite side of
the road 91B in An Binh Commune, Loi Nguyen Ward. This site is about 400 m far
from the affected site.
Site 2: It is about 500 m far from the sub project area. This site currently belong to Can
Tho City authority. The area is more than 10 ha of the homestead land.
Both sites are very closed to the affected site and closed to road 91B, it is very convenient
for living and doing business/services. All PAPs agreed to receive land in these sites.
The sites are developing by local authorities with the standard plot as below:
(i)    4m x 16 m;
(ii)   4.5m x l8mor4,5mx20m, and
(iii) 6 m x 20
Site 2 with access road, electricity, school etc. are ready for using. Site I is under
development.
One family who is living at the proposed subproject site will be relocated to one of these
sites.
PAPs opt 'or site I or site 2 and the criteria for PAP to be compensatedl at site I or site 2
haven't been discussedl. This qtuestion xvill be finialized in the next meetinag with PAPs
(supposed to be around thie end of Jariuarv 2002)
15



Chapter V
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT
5.1      INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The following organizations and institutions will be involved in to the
preparation and implementation of the compensation and resettlement plans for the
Project:
- Ministry of Health (MOH)
- Project Management Board (P.MB)
- Provincial People's Committee of Can Tho (PPC)
- Related Departments of Can Tho
- Provincial Resettlement Board (PRB)
- Commune authorities of An Binh
- Representatives of Project Inpacted People (PAPs)
- External Monitoring Institutions (it might be required).
5.2 FUNCTIONS, TASK FORCE AND RESPONSIBILITY
Ministry of Health (MOH)
MOH is an Employer of the project and is responsible for the management and
organization of investigation, design, RAP preparation and supervision for RAP
implementation.
Can Tho Provincial People's Committee (PPC)
The PPC is responsible for approval of RAP, decide land acquisition for the
subproject and sites for land compensation. The is also responsible for the approval of
the compensation unit costs basing on the unit costs suggested by the Price and
Financing Department.
16



PPC has responsibility to inform to the related institutions for the implementation
of RAP and organization for co-ordination between these institutions.
PPC is also responsible for the declaration of the cut-off date of the Sub-project.
Department of Health (DOH)
DOH is assigned by MOH and responsible for development of the Sub-project.
DOH will have overall responsibility for planning and implementation of all the Sub-
project aspects, including RAP preparation and implementation.
Project Management Board (PMB) and Provincial Sub-Project Management Board
(PSPMB)
The Project Management Board will be "Project Directive Board" and
Provincial Department of Health will establish the Provincial Sub-Project Management
Board (PSPMB). The Head of PSPMB will be appointed by the Director of DOH. The
PSPMB will have members and units, for the supervision and implementation of RAP.
The RAP tasks will be handed by "Specific Unit". This Unit will be responsible for
supervision of RAP implementation including checking all the detailed plans and
schedules for different phases and tasks which will be prepared by Commune
Resettlement Board. For direct tasks on the ground, the PMB and PSPMB will be
assisted by the Provincial and Commune Authorities.
PMB and PSPMB will have responsibilities to implement required aspects of the
RAP. The PMB and PSPMB will supervise all actions entailed by RAP program, and
shall closely observe the decisions of PRB and CRB in order to ensure that the
provisions of the RAP to be respected both in principle and in practice. The PMB will
organize and fund for survey, inventory and RAP preparation. PMB and PSPMB will
also responsible for checking the availability of replacement alternatives for impacted
persons/households which mentioned in RAP. PMB will collaborate with local
authorities and PRB, CRB for obtain land registration papers on the behalf of PAPs and
for implementation of RAP. Although all the implementation periods on the behalf of
MOH, DOH and PSPMB will carry out the intemal monitoring and will maintain
continuous contacts with external monitoring agencies.
Finally, the PMB will maintain the direct contact with community representatives
and the PAPs themselves and will be the first agency to prepare the booklet of RAP to
distribute to PAPs.
For each implementation phase of compensation and resettlement, PSPMB will
report to PMB and PMB will report to MOH and WB on the RAP implementation and
evaluation.
Provincial Resettlement Board (PRB):
17



In order to manage resettlement and compensation tasks the PPC of Can Tho
Province will establish a Provincial Resettlement Board (PRB), which will be headed by
the Vice-Chairman of PPC. The PRB should have at least the Representatives of:
- Provincial Department of Health
- Provincial Land Service
- Provincial Price and Financing Service
- Provincial Construction Service
- Assistants (02) : Computer and English capabilities are required.
The staff of PRB will work as part-time staff for RAP implementation only and
they will receive the higher rate of salary for the working time for RAP, the rate will be
declared by the provincial chairman in the decision of PRB establishment.
The PRB will have direct responsibility for all actions concerning direct
compensation including the definition of replacement measures, approval of
compensation solutions, definition of compensation price, submission all the detail
schedules and amount payment to the Chairman of PPC for the approval. PRB will be
responsible for solution of complaint and grievance, if the negotiation at CRB level is
not successful.
Provincial Price and Financing Department (PPFD):
The PPFD will be responsible for assessment and suggestion the unit prices for
compensation. For this responsibility, PPFD will have to collaborate with the Provincial
Construction Department for getting replacement cost of different types of houses,
collaborate with Provincial Cadastral Department for the decision of land compensation
unit prices. PPFD will be responsible for financing to implement the RAP on the behalf
of the Province.
An Binh Commune People's Committee (CPC):
CPC is responsible for the direction and organization of the co-ordination
between the institutions for the RAP implementation in the Commune. CPC will
establish the compensation team and help them during the period of RAP
implementation. Especially for the resolution of complaint and grievances of the local
people. In co-ordination with relevant institutions for delivering cash compensation and
allowances/subsidies to PAPs
The member of compensation team should be:
Commune Land Administration Office
18



Representative of PAPs.
Representatives of Project impacted households (PAPs):
Together with PAPs check their impacted properties which determine by the
surveyors confirm for that by putting their signatures on the compensation document of
individual.
The recommendations and comments to the RAP on entitlement, the proposed
replacement measures and others shall be submitted to the Sub-Project Management
Board through the consultation.
The number of staff to be involved in RAP implementation at the different levels will be
decided by Can Tho PPC at the beginning of the project implementation.
19



Chapter VI
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
6.1 Public announcement
The PAPs shall be thoroughly informed of their rights and of the specific policies
of the RAP including eligibility, provisions ; entitlement policy; modes and rates of
compensation, schedules and complaint and grievances rights. Such information will be
delivered to the PAPs by the PMB, DRB though meetings, though posters hung in local
administration quarters and in major public places
Public announcement tasks shall be implemented immediately after GOV and
WB approval of project is obtained. The announcements and pamphlets shall clearly
describe RAP policies.
Public announcement shall also detail implementation rights and duties of the
PAPs including compensation and resettlement deadlines.
6.2 Compensation and resettlement deadlines
The impact of the project is in a small scale and have only one PAPs will have
to be relocated, so that the compensation will be paid one time to PAPs for their total
amount of entitlement. The compensation must be paid at least 3 months before land
clearance for the project.
6.3 PAPs' Responsibility
PAPs received full compensation and subsidies and allocated with land are
requested to move out of the affected area for project construction.
20



Chapter VII
COST ESTIMATE AND BUDGET
Based on the affected assets and entitlement policy, the cost estimate is as below:
Table 3: Cost of Compensation and Rap implementation
No.          Item           Unit     Quantityi Unit cost     Total (VND)
1    Garden and             m7         10,000  1,500,000      15,000,000,000
residential land                         ___675004              000
2     House                 m60                  750000           45,000,000
3     House foundation      m              50    500,000          25,000,000
4     Mango trees           tree           65    400,000          26,000,000
5     Orange trees          tree            7     93,000             651,000
6    Pomelo                 tree            3    400,000           1,200,000
7     Durian                tree           20    400,000           8,000,000
8     Coconut tree          tree            1    237,000             237,000
9    Other tree             tree           35     93,000           3,255,000
10   Access path             m           250      18,000           4,500,000
11   Relocation allowance   HH            01   2,000,000           2,000,000
12   Resettlement          Person         03     150,000            450,000
allowance                                         _
13   Movement incentive     HH            01   5,000,000           5,000,000
Sub-total (A)                           l                15,121,293,000
14   RAP implementation                                          453,639,000
cost (about 3% of A)
15   Contingency                                                1,512,129,000
(independent                            l
monitoring is
included): about 10%
of A
16   Grand total                                              17,087,061,000
Equivalent to about
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   l_ _   l__  _1,139,140  $U D
Budget for RAP will be from the counterpart fund.
21



Chapter VIII
PARTICIPATION AND CONSULTATION
8.1 OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION
Information dissemination to, consultation with and participation of the affected
people and involved agencies (i) reduce the potential for conflicts, (ii) minimize the risk
of project delays, and (iii) enable the project to design the resettlement and rehabilitation
program as a comprehensive development program to fit the needs and priorities of the
affected people, thereby maximizing the economic and social benefits of the project
investment.
The objectives of the Public Information Campaign and PAP Consultation
Program are as follows:
- To share fully information about the proposed project, its components and its
activities, with the affected people.
- To obtain information about the needs and priorities of the effected people, as
well as information about their reactions to proposed policies and activities.
- To obtain the cooperation and participation of the affected people and
communities required to be undertaken for resettlement planning and implementation.
- To ensure transparency in all activities related to land acquisition, resettlement
and rehabilitation.
RESETTLEMENT INFORMATION BOOKLET
To ensure that PAPs, their representatives and the local governments of the
affected areas fully understand the details of the resettlement program, and also are
informed about the compensation and rehabilitation packages applicable to the project, a
resettlement information booklet (RIB) will be distributed to all PAPs in the project
area in the initial duration of the implementation stage of the project.
The RIB will give information on the followings of basic features and specific
entitlement of each PAP.
* Project design objectives
* Implementation schedule
22



* Project impacts
* Rights and entitlements of the affected people
* Institutions responsible for resettlement
* Information dissemination to and consultation with the affected people
* Grievances and appeals
* Independent Monitoring function
23



Chapter IX
GRIEVANCE AND APPEALS
Since the entire resettlement and Rehabilitation program is being carried out
with the participation of the PAPs and the impacted scale of this project will be
relatively small, it is expected that no grievance issue will arise. However, to ensure that
the PAPs have avenues for redressing their grievances related to any aspect of
compensation and resettlement, detailed procedures of redresses of grievances have been
established for the project. The objective is to respond to the complaints of the PAPs
speedily and in a transparent manner. The mechanism is designed to be easy, transparent
and fair. The purpose is to grievance issues in an effective manner. By resolving
grievances at the project level, the progress of the project would be more effective
ascertained.
The procedures are as follows
Stage 1:
If any person is aggrieved by any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation
program, he/she can lodge an oral or written grievance TO An Binh Commune authorities
In case an oral compliant is made, it will be written on paper by the ward unit
and processed. Ward administration Committee or the DRB will resolve the issue within
two weeks.
Stage 2:
Unless all grievance issues have been resolved, ground clearance can be started.
If any aggrieved person is not satisfied with the decision in stage 1, he/she can bring the
complaint to the attention of the within one month from the date of the receipt of the
decision in stage 1. The complaint will be sent to Can Tho city authorities and Can Tho
city authorities will reach a decision on the complaint within two weeks.
Stage 3:
If the PAP is still dissatisfied with the decision of Can Tho city, he/she can
appeal to the District People's Court (DPC) in accordance with the "Civil Procedure
Act" within 15 days of receiving the decision of the Can Tho city authorities.
PAPs can make an appeal on any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation program,
including compensation rates being offered.
24



Detailed procedures for redress of grievances and appeal process shown
publicized among the PAPs during participation meetings.
This information is also incorporated into the RIB to be distributed to the PAPs
before the beginning of implementation.
25



Chapter IX
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
9.1 Internal Monitoring
Internal supervision and monitoring will be carried out by the Project
Management Board and include the following activities
a)   Monitoring the population and socio-economic surveys of PAP and the inventory
of PAP assets, status, occupations and living conditions and supervising the
implementation of compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation for the PAP in the
terms agreed by the PAPs.
b)   Monitoring whether the implementation of resettlement and compensation tasks
are cared out as provided in this RAP.
c)   Monitoring the availability and quality of replacement land
d)   Monitoring the timely and sufficient deployment of resettlement and
compensation funds or of replacement land as prescribed by this RAP.
e)   Investigate and fairly assess each case of complaint and grievance.
f)   Internal monitoring agencies will prepare a quarterly report detailing the progress
of RAP implementation. Such a report should be made available to appropriate GOV
authorities, WB and external monitoring agencies.
9.2 External Monitoring
13ecause ot telw PAP'. independent rnonitoring rnay still be ret3ired, but the eXtCIIt
and icnstcsit ot01 nonitorinni- would be iimibed in temm oF visuis and mnonitorine pcriod.
I'his coultd be d(one bv Individual experts..he PM1f3 will prepare TOR for this irak
and subnit to the W orld Bank tor its concurrence and then select qtlalified
illstittLtioiil'iicdividual s tor carraing out this dutv.
26



