Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22128-VN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.8 MILLION
(US$38.20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR A
REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTERS PROJECT
March 18, 2002
Human Development Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2002)
Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)
1.0 VND = US$0.000066
US$1 = 15,133 VND
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS          Acqiyired Irnmune Deficiency Syndrome
CAS           Country Assistarnce Strategy (World Bank)
CDC           Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (USA)
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ            Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOV           Government of Vietnam
HCMC          Ho Chi Minh City
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAPSO         Inter-agency Procurement Services Office (UNDP)
ICB           -iternational Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IEC           Information, Education and Communications
LCS           Least-Cost Selection
MOH           Ministry of Health
N.B.F.        Non-Bank Financed
NBTS          National Blood Transfusion Service
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
NIHBT         National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PlIRD         Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (Japan)
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMU           Project Management Unit
QA            Quality Assurance
QBS           Quality Based Selection
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
RBTC          Regional Blood Transfusion Center
RPMU          Regional Project Management Unit
SA            Special Account
SBD           Standard Bidding Documents
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNICEF        United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UNDB          United Nations Development Business
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
VLSS          Vietnam Living Standards Survey
VND           Vietnamn Dong
WHO           World Health Organization
Vice President:  Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager/Director:  Emnmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    L. Richard Meyers



VIETNAM
REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTERS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        6
3. Benefits and target population                                                       7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         15
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            16
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                           18
4. Institutional                                                                       20
5. Environmental                                                                       21
6. Social                                                                              22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25



2. Critical risks                                                                    25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    26
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           26
2. Other                                                                             26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        45
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                              46
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    73
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           78
Annex 11: Blood Transfusion Centers Waste Management and Disposal                       80
Annex 12: Project Organizational Chart                                                  83
MAP(S)
IBRD 31559



VIETNAM
Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: March 18, 2002                            Team Leader: L. Richard Meyers
Country Director: Andrew D. Steer               Sector Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project ID: P073305                             Sector(s): HO - Hospitals, Secondary & Tertiary
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 38.20 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                           Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     9.30           0.00         9.30
IDA                                                          9.19          29.01        38.20
Total:                                                      18.49          29.01        47.50
Borrower: SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Address: 138A Giang Vo St., Hanoi
Contact Person: Mr. Duong Huy Lieu, Director, Department of Planning
Tel: 84 4 8 464 058         Fax: 84 4 8 463 056          Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002      2103       2004      2005      2(006      2007      2008
Annual    2.00        6.00      8.00       9.00      7.00      4.00      2.20
Cumulative    2.00       8.00      16.00     25.00     32.00     36.00      38.20
Project implementation period: Five Years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2008
DOCS PAD FW- Rev Mi, 2DO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusions for the
population covered by hospitals served by Regional Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTCs).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
By the end of the project, for patients in hospitals in the service area of RBTCs, the:
-- share of required hospital blood stocks met by RBTC products will have increased;
-- availability of appropriate blood products for the care of hemophilia patients will have
increased;
-- incidence of blood transfusion reactions will have decreased; and the
-- incidence of blood transmitted infections will have decreased.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18375-VN Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/25/01
Maintain Vietnam's competitiveness, and improve the welfare of its people, by improving the quality of the
health care system and restoring and maintaining trust and confidence in the system.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Vietnam has achieved levels in basic health indicators that are remarkably better than other developing
countries with similar or even higher per capita incomes. Much of this achievement has been the result of
widespread practices of promoting social solidarity and a relatively egalitarian distribution of wealth and
income. Another factor that has contributed to good levels of health status by such a poor country is a
health system that has wide population coverage with many modem and cost-effective disease control
interventions and primary health care services delivered through an extensive grassroots health services
network.
While official data from 1987 to 1993 indicate that utilization of this grassroots health network had
seriously declined, considerable efforts have been on-going for almost a decade, including efforts with
substantial IDA funding, to improve the quality, coverage and utilization of public primary health care
providers. Govenmment policy is clear on this issue. Public investments and recurrent budget support for the
grassroots health network are being given priority attention. These efforts are expected to yield gains in
terms of further reductions in morbidity and mortality from preventable causes through more effective
disease prevention, health promotion, and appropriate early treatment at the household, village, commune
and district levels.
Even as large health gains are expected from anticipated improvements in community health, large numbers
of sick patients still require higher level clinical care for which public hospitals remain the almost exclusive
provider. The country has a high rate of hospital use, reported by the Ministry of Health (MOH), from
hospital records, at 68 annual admissions per 1,000 population and by the 1998 Vietnam Living Standards
-2 -



Survey, from household interviews, at 50 annual admissions per 1,000 population. The average length of
hospital stay is also long at 14 days, among the highest in Asia. Vietnam maintains a network of
government hospitals so extensive that its hospital bed to population ratio of 1:389 compares favorably
with other developing countries with higher per capita incomes like China (1:465), Thailand (1:665) and
Indonesia (1:1,743).
A health sector review (Growing Healthy: A Review of Vietnam 's Health Sector), carried out under IDA's
direction in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and other donors, provides the most comprehensive
analysis available of trends in health service utilization, health outcomes, public health expenditures and
provision of health services. The Review indicates that Vietnam's mostly public hospitals absorb the bulk
of the health sector's resources, capturing 70% of total spending from all sources, government, households
and others. As much as 85% of the state budget for recurrent expenditures in health goes to public
hospitals. Yet these same public hospitals are deriving an increasing share of their total costs from
payments by users. Data from a 1996 survey of hospitals indicate that revenues from out-of-pocket and
health insurance payments increased more than four times faster than state budget subsidies between 1994
and 1996. Public hospitals that depended completely on the state budget for their operation funds in 1989,
by 1996 derived only 51% of their expenditures from government subsidies. Central and provincial
hospitals, in contrast to district hospitals, depended even less on state budget subsidies, which accounted
for only 43% of their revenues.
The greater portion of hospital revenues that depend on payments from patients follows patterns of actual
hospital use by patients. The portion of hospital financing covered by state subsidies follows
administratively determined norrns based on authorized bed capacity, level of official hospital
classification, and nominal catchment population. Unresolved overlapping and sometimes conflicting
approaches--administrative allocation of funds according to socialist principles of equity and state
responsibility for health care, market driven allocation of patient revenues according to user preferences
and willingness to pay, and technically driven cost estimations according to international standards for
improving health care--have resulted in the lack of a clear strategy for this important part of the health
sector. Meanwhile, variations in clinical effectiveness, operating unit costs, service quality and patient
utilization among different public hospitals have increased. The result is that the government has not been
able to attain its policy objectives, whether to drive cost-effectiveness in publicly managed health service
provision, or to control quality of care obtained by patients, or to allocate public resources for health care
financing equitably, or to contain the financial burdens of catastrophic care or to protect the access of the
poor to adequate medical care.
Major health sector issues include: (a) uncertain clinical effectiveness of public hospital services made
available and utilized; (b) systemic inefficiencies in the allocation and use of limited public funds for
capital investments and recurrent expenditures of hospitals; (c) a heavy financial burden of the private costs
of public hospital care on individual patients, particularly poor patients; (d) lack of capacity among public
hospitals in the management of multiple sources of financing to achieve efficient and equitable hospital
operations; and (e) a weak policy framework and fragmented institutional responsibility over the direction
of public hospital reform and development.
These are difficult issues involving complex interests and sensitive decisions. IDA and the government are
engaged in a policy dialogue on these difficult issues that still has some way to go before a viable
consensus can emerge. Meanwhile, the government raised the possibility of fast-tracking the improvement
of the country's blood transfusion services due to increasing concerns about the safety and reliability of
blood transfusions in the context of a growing HIV/AIDS epidemic. For its part, IDA recognized securing
blood transfusion safety as an important aspect of preventing a potential explosion of HIV/AIDS
- 3 -



infections, and at the same time an opportunity for improving blood services as a microcosm of the larger
and more intractable issues of public hospital reforms.
The need for blood is clearly large. Official MOH statistics report that each year the country's hospital
system handles almost a million surgical procedures per year; manages more than 5,000 admitted obstetric
cases involving hemorrhage; encounters more than 30,000 accident injury victims. Ensuring favorable
clinical outcomes in most of these cases require that reliable and safe blood transfusion services be
available.
The government has identified numerous problems with the current blood supply system. First, it is
estimated that only about 10-14% of blood needs are being met. Second, blood needs are being met by
available supplies of uncertain quality that pose high risks of blood transmissible infections. Some district
hospitals provide emergency transfusions of untested blood. Most blood available for transfusion is drawn
from paid donors. Compliance with existing national standards for testing, screening and storing of blood
by the many small, inadequately equipped, poorly staffed and under-funded hospital blood laboratories is
highly uneven. Third, the government lacks the capacity and resources, in the immediate future, to
undertake the cost and effort necessary to assure the safety and quality of blood provided by so many
independent blood banks. Public confidence in the blood system is low, in turn undermining the credibility
of the whole hospital system. Meanwhile, demand for higher standards of safety in blood services will
increase over time, particularly with the increased availability and use of medical procedures that involve
blood transfusions even as the spread of blood-borne diseases makes each transfusion riskier.
While all of the above considerations provide important reasons for the government to support safe blood, a
further important reason stems from the threat of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. AIDS will not only increase the
demand for hospital care but will also reduce the blood transfusions supply available at a given price.
Most importantly, the AIDS epidemic has greatly increased the risk to patients of existing medical
procedures. Simply maintaining the level of safety that existed before the presence of HIV requires
additional hygiene and blood screening, both of which raise the costs of health care. Unless current
constraints to increasing the supply of safe blood in Vietnam are overcome, its price will rise substantially.
A central rationale for investing in safe blood in very poor countries is to help the government cushion the
effects of the shock of the epidemic and maintain an essential level of care. See Chapter 4 in Confronting
AIDS: Public Priorities in a Global Epidemic, World Bank, 1997.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed: The project will seek to meet the increasing demand for safe blood transfusions
through the establishment and operation of a few RBTCs that will provide efficient and reliable blood
services to hospitals located within their proximate geographic area. Some health sector issues could be
addressed by the project in the context of the narrow and specific area of blood transfusions to patients at
hospitals served by RBTCs. The project will seek to remove, as far as possible, any uncertainties and lack
of confidence in the safety and clinical effectiveness of blood transfusions among patients as well as
providers. By focusing public investments and recurrent budget support on a few regional blood centers
serving as many hospitals as possible, the project will demonstrate an efficient approach for using limited
public funds to maximize benefits in terms of blood safety. By demonstrating a viable alternative for
producing blood services in several regions of the country at the lowest unit costs that meet international
standards of good manufacturing practice, and by developing policies for sustained domestic financing of
the centers providing these services at these costs, the project will have laid the foundations for eventually
cushioning as far as possible the financial burdens of private costs of blood transfusions to individual
patients, including poor patients in need of blood.
- 4 -



Strategic choices: Choice of health sub-sector. Since IDA has two large, on-going projects which address
the primary health care and reproductive health needs of the poorest communities in Vietnam, the option of
another project in the area of community health was not considered. As IDA is still engaged in on-going
policy dialogue with the government on public hospital reform, this option was also temporarily set aside.
Choice of whether to intervene or not. A strategic option considered was for IDA not to intervene as the
government undertakes its own effort to improve blood transfusion services based on the recently approved
10-year national blood services program. Due to limitations in available government funds for investing in
blood safety, however, the said program would primarily focus on gradual implementation of incremental
improvements in the blood testing capabilities of the many small-scale blood banks of central, provincial
and district hospitals in the country. Such an effort would have slowly eliminated the worst risks to
blood-transmittable infections wherever blood transfusions are done. It would, however, not have been able
to raise significantly standards of quality and safety in those facilities with the highest volume of blood
transfusions. The government's risk reduction approach to blood transfusion services improvement may be
its best alternative given limited funds. The use of IDA funding to attain higher standards of blood services
quality in those areas of the country with the highest volume of blood use would, in parallel, enhance and
complement the government's own efforts to reduce the risks of transfusion among other small volume
blood banks.
There are considerable uncertainties to the success of the government's program without the project. As the
country's many small blood banks are gradually improved, the risks of transmitting blood bome-infections
continue to increase at the highest volume blood banks that are unable to fully adopt all the available
measures for blood safety due to funding limitations. If a dramatic loss of public confidence in blood
services were to occur due to significant incidence of unsafe transfusions, including transfusion-acquired
HIV/AIDS infections, gradual and incremental improvements are not likely to suffice in regaining the trust
of practicing clinicians and their patients. In such a scenario, the government's national program would risk
failure. Thus, the project will not just complement the success of the government's program but will also
help reduce its considerable risks of failure.
Choice of the means to improve blood safety. A number of strategic choices for improving blood safety
were rejected for various reasons. Improved regulation of blood banks was rejected because regulations
alone would not have been able to overcome the lack of investment funds required to meet higher standards
of safety. Govermment purchasing of blood services from blood bank operators was rejected because the
appearance of a comnmercial transaction would have increased the difficulties of building community
support for voluntary unpaid donation. Providing greater incentives for clinicians to demand safe blood was
also rejected because it was unclear that an adequate supply response to such clinical demand would
rapidly emerge.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Development of the Hanoi Regional Blood Transfusion Center (RBTC): Supports the following
regional programs:
(a) voluntary donation recruitment; (b) blood bank operations; (c) effective clinical use of blood; (d)
quality management; (e) RBTC staff development; (f) facility and logistics management; and (g) the
- 5 -



costs of resettlement or compensation associated with households' loss of land or other assets due to the
selection of the site.
2. Development of Hue RBTC (supports regional programs as in Component I a-f)
3. Development of Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) RBTC (supports regional programs as in Component
1 a-f)
4. Development of Can Tho RBTC (supports regional programs as in Component 1)
5. National Support and Capacity Building for the RBTCs by the National Institute of Hematology
and Blood Transfusion. Supports:
(a) the four RBTC's regional programs; (b) development of a blood services financing policy; (c)
training for future RBTCs; and (d) project management.
Indicative             Bank-     % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-
_  (US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
1. Development of Hanoi RBTC     Hospitals, Secondary  13.21     27.8      10.62      27.8
& Tertiary
2. Development of Hue RBTC       Hospitals, Secondary   8.33      17.5      6.68      17.5
& Tertiary
3. Development of Ho Chi Minh City  Hospitals, Secondary  9.75    20.5      7.83      20.5
RBTC                             & Tertiary
4. Development of Can Tho RBTC   Hospitals, Secondary   8.29      17.5      6.65      17.4
& Tertiary
5. National Support and Capacity  Hospitals, Secondary  2.73       5.7      2.22       5.8
Building                         & Tertiary
Physical Contingencies                         3.33        7.0      2.71       7.1
Price Contingencies                             1.86       3.9      1.49       3.9
Total Project Costs                  47.50      100.0     38.20     100.0
Total Financing Required                    47.50     100.0      38.20     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will:
create a nationwide network composed of a limited number of regional blood transfusion centers
that would each operate at sufficient scale to build voluntary donation programs and to adopt
-6-



international standards of good manufacturing practice in centralized blood collection, testing,
processing and distribution to support bedside clinical transfusions in all the hospitals within a
geographic area (region)
*      accelerate the shift to regular voluntary unpaid donation as the main and eventually the exclusive
source of blood donation as a prerequisite to further expansion of blood transfusion service
coverage or diversification to blood components production
*      adopt as soon as possible and maintain intemational standards of good manufacturing practice in
the blood services laboratories of the regional blood transfusion centers
*      utilize environmentally sound means of disposal of blood collection disposables and blood-related
wastes
*      implement and strictly enforce a policy of complete confidentiality of all blood donor records,
particularly with respect to their blood test results for HIV/AIDS
*      undertake efforts to promote effective clinical use of blood and eliminate unnecessary blood
transfusions on the principle that an unnecessary blood transfusion is always an unsafe transfusion
*      develop policies to finance sustained operations of the regional blood centers, which can ensure
sufficient funding to maintain their voluntary blood donation programs and the quality standards of
their blood services laboratories without creating financial barriers for poor patients in need of
blood and avoiding wrong incentives for clinicians to misuse, over-use or under-use blood
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: Most blood transfusions are given to:
(a) Women for treatment of bleeding due to complications of childbirth;
(b) Children and young people with severe anemia;
(c) Victims of accidents and injuries involving loss of blood; and
(d) Patients undergoing general surgery, major reconstructive surgery (e.g., coronary bypass
grafting, heart valve replacement, joint replacement, organ transplantation) or treatment for
leukemia and cancer, or the care of the hemophiliac.
These different groups of patients differ greatly in their needs for blood and blood-related products and
services with respect to the: urgency with which blood must be supplied if transfusion is to be of benefit;
specific type of blood product required (such as whole blood or a blood component); and the quantity of
blood product required for the episode of care.
In order for people in need of blood to benefit from blood transfusions, however, they have to gain access to
health facilities where such need can be recognized by a clinician, an order for blood transfusion can be
issued and the required transfusions made correctly, successfully, and on time.
Among people in need of transfusions and able to obtain them, some may not fully benefit because their
transfusions occur under conditions of poor quality clinical care. Furthermore, there may be people in need
of blood who may even be harmed by an unsafe transfusion when, for example, they acquire a
blood-transmissible infection through the transfusion or encounter adverse transfusion reactions to wrongly
- 7 -



matched blood. These adverse consequences might not be quickly recognized or effectively managed and
could lead to premature death.
1. The project will have no expected effect on the population-based needs for blood transfusion. The
project is not likely to affect the numbers or distribution of persons that will need a transfusion as these will
be driven largely by changes in demographic patterns and general improvements in preventive and curative
care capabilities. The project is also not going to affect the access to hospitals of people in need of
transfusion as these matters will be driven largely by general socioeconomic and infrastructure
improvements.
2. The project can reduce the risks of not obtaining a safe transfusion or of getting an unsafe blood
transfusion. The project will increase the quantity of safe blood available in the busiest hospitals at the
country's main urban centers. In addition, the project will extend the coverage of safe blood services to
other smaller hospitals in the region. People in need of transfusion and who are able to access care at these
hospitals would benefit from the project. Increasing the ability of the blood transfusion services to fully
meet the total need for blood with supplies from voluntary donors that are properly tested and stored will
ensure that all those who do obtain access to care in these hospitals will benefit from transfusions only of
safe blood.
By increasing the available quantity of safe blood and expanding reliable coverage of safe blood services to
more hospitals, the project can directly reduce the overall risks of not obtaining a transfusion despite the
need and eliminate the probability of getting an unsafe blood pack in the event of a transfusion.
3. The project can also reduce the risks of not benefiting from transfusion of safe blood or of being
harmed by unsafe blood. The project will also improve the clinical effectiveness of using blood in patient
management thereby avoiding unnecessary transfusions and increasing the frequency of correct essential
transfusion practice. This will reduce the risks of not benefiting from a safe blood transfusions (since only
truly beneficial transfusions will occur) and help eliminate further any remaining risks of being harmed by
unsafe blood (since unnecessary transfusions will be avoided and, when transfusions are indeed necessary,
only safe blood will be used).
The project will also create substantial national capacity for safe blood services including:
(a) regional centers with large scale capacity to produce safe blood services;
(b) central technical capacity to further develop the country's safe blood services network;
(c) a sizeable national cadre of specialists in transfusion medicine and blood laboratory
operations; and
(d) a body of field-tested operating standards, policies, systems and procedures for every aspect of
safe blood services.
Target Populations: The target population consists of those people who live in communities likely to
obtain access to hospitals supported by safe blood services from regional blood centers supported by the
project. For the four centers under the project, this includes the 30 million population in 21 provinces
served by 180 hospitals.
Those groups within this population whose health conditions require blood transfusions and who are able to
access the hospital in time to obtain the transfusions will benefit the most. Even those who do not end up
getting a transfusion will also benefit from the peace of mind and sense of personal security derived from
assurances that, if and when blood transfusions are needed, an adequate, reliable and safe service is readily
- 8 -



available.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A. Existing Institutional Arrangements for Blood Services
The Ministry of Health provides the policy and management direction for the operations of blood services
in Vietnam. The National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion (NIHBT) is the MOH agency
that formulates the technical recommendations for these policies and supports the field implementation of
these policies. The government has approved a 10-year national program for blood services that outlines
certain objectives and commits resources to the improvement of blood services.
The actual collection, testing and issuing of blood in the clinical care setting is undertaken by
hospital-based blood banks or blood transfusion centers. As most hospitals are public hospitals, the MOH
through the NIHBT exercises policy and management direction over blood services using a broad range of
powers and authorities through regulation of technical standards, administrative controls, budgetary
provisions and investment decisions.
The main features of the current institutional arrangements are: (a) official recognition of the national
blood services program as a priority national health program of the MOH and the government; (b) official
mandate for the NIHBT as the chief technical agency of MOH for blood services policy direction and
operations management; (c) routine commingling of the operations of blood transfusion and hematology
wherever the specialized practice of hematology exists; (d) standard practice of regarding blood services as
integral to hospital operations; and (e) highly decentralized operations of many small-to-medium scale
individual blood services units in hospitals.
B. Institutional Arrangements for Blood Services During Project Life
The project will be executed as one of several public investment projects being imnplemented by the MOH.
The national-level and the Hanoi-region activities of the project will be managed by the NIHBT. Two of the
regional blood centers will be established as distinct units of two respective central hospitals; one regional
blood center will be a unit of a provincial government.
The critical features of the institutional arrangements during project life are: (i) close linkage of the
investment project with the govemnment's national program as the MOH provides policy and management
direction to both the project and the program and the NIHBT similarly provides technical and
implementation support to both project and program; (ii) initial functional and organizational separation of
blood transfusion activities from clinical hematology services; (iii) progressive organizational delineation of
the regional blood centers from their host central hospitals or provincial governments even as these centers
remain administratively attached to their host institutions; and (iv) gradual regional centralization of blood
services to replace decentralized hospital-based blood services.
C. Post-Project Institutional Framework
Towards the end of the project life, the post-project institutional framework is expected to emerge with the
following key features: (i) policy direction by MOH will be exercised through regulatory standards,
financing norms and monitoring oversight; (ii) technical support by NIHBT will focus on quality assurance
and technical oversight of blood center operations; and (iii) blood services will be delivered by a national
network of financially self-sufficient and managerially capable autonomous regional blood centers serving
-9-



hospitals within a catchment area.
Such an institutional framework will emerge with the assistance of the project's institution building
strategy, which consists of the following elements:
(i) Establishing fully operational regional blood transfusion centers that are administratively authorized to
operate with some degree of autonomy. Capacity in these regional blood centers would be adequate
through provision of facilities and equipment, training of staff, development of operating systems and
procedures, preparation and implementation of business plans and formulation of appropriate financing
policies.
(ii) Supporting national-level enabling conditions such as: securing legislation eliminating paid blood
donations; strengthening of technical capacity for regulation at MOH and for quality assurance
monitoring at the NIHBT; and creation of vigorous nationwide networks of communications,
professional interactions and information-sharing among MOH, NIHBT and the regional blood
transfusion centers.
D. Executing Agencies
The project will be executed by the Ministry of Health, with the participation of: (i) the National Institute
of Hematology and Blood Transfusion as the implementing agency for the national-level and Hanoi-region
activities; (ii) the RBTC based at Hue Central Hospital as the implementing agency for the Hue-region
activities; (iii) the RBTC based at Cho Ray Hospital as the implementing agency for the HCMC-region
activities; (iv) the RBTC based at the Can Tho Provincial People's Committee as the implementing agency
for the Can Tho-region activities. Early in the project, additional RBTCs will be identified to carry out
future activities for other regions, but will not receive project funding except for the training of prospective
staff. The project management unit (PMU) will be based at the NIHBT and the three Regional Project
Management Units (RPMUs) will be based at Hue Central Hospital, Cho Ray Hospital and Can Tho
Provincial Hospital, respectively.
E. IDA Supervision
Experience with the implementation of the IDA-funded, on-going National Health Support Project indicates
that IDA supervision can either assist in obtaining better project implementation performance or create
additional burdens that unduly distract or divert implementing agency efforts. In order to provide the
executing agency the maximum benefit of IDA supervision in support of project implementation, the
following measures will be adopted:
(i) Scheduling of supervision missions: Due and proper consideration of the government's budget
planning and approval cycle would be given in scheduling the timing of IDA supervision missions. This
will ensure that the executing agency is given ample opportunity to resolve with IDA all major policy
issues affecting the annual program of work under the project.
(ii) Year 1 Procurement Plan: IDA and the government have agreed on a Year I procurement plan under
the project. This will ensure that project procurement can immediately proceed upon project
effectiveness.
(iii) Adoption of appropriate technical standards from the Council of Europe Guidelines on Blood
Transfusion, 7th Edition, as the technical and scientific basis of IDA's "no objection" review of project
- 1 0 -



implementation: In deciding on all matters that require IDA's "no objection", technical and scientific
guidance will be derived from the appropriate standards of this docurnent. This will ensure that the
executing and implementing agencies have full understanding about the specific international standards
that guide IDA's supervision of the project.
(iv) Agreements on the conditions governing the use of project funds for blood component production:
Project investments in blood component production will be the subject of explicit conditions to be
agreed during supervision. Meeting these agreed conditions will be required before IDA can provide
its "no objection" to any procurement for the purpose of supporting blood component production.
F. Financial Management Arrangements
The accounting firm of Grant Thornton Vietnam conducted a financial management assessment of the
project's financial management system with a view to assessing its readiness for implementation.
Significant elements of that system had not been put in place at the time of the assessment. Therefore, the
financial management system will need to be improved before the project becomes effective. The
information presented in Annex 6 describes more fully the procurement, disbursement and financial
management arrangements, and outlines the major actions that need to be taken for the project to meet the
minimum requirements for financial management. The effectiveness conditions anticipated related to
financial management are presented in Section G.
The Ministry of Health through the Project Management Unit will be responsible for the financial
management of the project, including the areas of accounting, audit coordination, internal control, records
management and reporting. The MOH uses the Vietnamese Administrative Accounting System and will
use a chart of accounts that will allow it to also report transactions on the cash basis under Vietnam
accounting standards and keep separate records of transactions financed by IDA funds. Annual project
financial statements will be prepared, audited and presented to IDA within six months of the end of each
full fiscal year. In addition, the auditors will be required to provide an opinion on the operation of the
Special Accounts and on the adequacy of the Statements of Expenditures as a basis for disbursements.
Independent project auditors will be selected under a competitive process from a list of qualified firms
maintained by IDA. The auditors will use intemational auditing standards and will be appointed as soon as
project funds are disbursed. Audit costs will be financed under the incremental operating costs of the
project.
The project will produce "simplified" cash basis Project Management Reports with effect from the end of
the first full calendar quarter after disbursements commence. These fonnats were agreed with the MOEI
and the PMU during the appraisal mission as recorded in Annex 6.
G. Procurement
The bulk of procurement will be undertaken centrally by the PMU. The RPMUs will handle only regional
civil works, local training, hiring of local consultants, purchasing of small quantities of reagents and
consumables, and operating costs. (See details on procurement in Annex 6.)
H. Monitoring and Evaluation
Two sets of project monitoring indicators were agreed upon at appraisal. The project implernentation
indicators track the progress of voluntary blood donors recruitment, degree of compliance by blood
- 11 -



laboratory production with the Council of Europe standards, expansion of coverage to hospitals supplied
with blood products, and level of support extended to clinical transfusions. The project outcome and impact
indicators include the impact of RBTC services on meeting hospital blood needs and on meeting the needs
of hemophiliacs for appropriate blood products, as well as the reduction of the incidence of blood
transfusion reactions and blood-transmitted infections.
Monitoring and evaluation will be coordinated by the PMU, which will assume responsibility for systemic
semi-annual monitoring of inputs, activities and outputs, drawing on information supplied by the financial
management system and the three RPM-Us. The project will use Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) in a
format agreed upon at negotiations. An annual implementation review of project status, in the first quarter
of each year, will include information on: (i) implementation and impact indicators; (ii) evaluation reports
from background studies; and (iii) results of baseline, mid-term and final evaluations as appropriate.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Strategy: The project strategy is based on a body of WHO technical recommendations for meeting
transfusion needs while reducing the risks associated with transfusion. The WHO strategy for safe blood
transfusion involves the development of a nationally coordinated network of transfusion service outlets that
can provide sufficient and timely supplies of safe blood products for the correct clinical use of patients who
require them. The safety of blood transfusion is to be assured by three mutually reinforcing mechanisms,
namely,:
(a) Careful donor selection: Collection of blood only from voluntary unpaid blood donors recruited from
low risk populations using stringent donor selection procedures. Such donor selection helps to assure that
only safe blood is collected.
(b) Rigorous blood screening: Testing of every donation of blood to detect and exclude infections that are
transmissible by transfusion, including hepatitis viruses, HIV, syphilis and other infectious agents, as well
as to ensure that each blood pack is accurately grouped and correctly labeled. Testing of all blood
donations ensures that any infected blood donated is identified and excluded from use.
(c) Effective clinical use of blood: Safe hospital transfusion practice means that blood is correctly stored,
compatible, prescribed and administered according to clinical guidelines for good practice. Transfusing
only essentially required blood only to those patients whose clinical outcome is likely to be improved
ensures that any remaining risks to the patient from receiving blood are always outweighed by that patient's
higher risks from not getting a transfusion.
The full-scale, consistent and routine application of these three inter-locking blood safety mechanisms
requires levels of community effort, organizational resources, technical capabilities and physical facilities
that entail high fixed costs. Such fixed costs are likely to be required whether 1,000 or 100,000 units of
blood are used annually. Cost-effectiveness in the acquisition and development of basic capabilities for
blood safety therefore argue for larger-scale operations towards quantities of blood product output as high
as can be appropriately utilized for clinical transfusions. Cost-effectiveness in the clinical utilization of
such higher output of blood then argues for blood centers that serve as many hospitals within a contiguous
area as travel time and transport conditions allow to be covered. These considerations lead to the project
strategy of developing regional blood transfusion centers, which will collect blood from voluntary donors
drawn from a large population in a multi-province region, test and process blood at a central laboratory and
- 12 -



then distribute safe blood to the many hospitals serving the same population and region.
Alternatives Considered and Rejected: The project decided not to invest in improving the safety of the
existing network of one blood bank per hospital as it was determined that such an approach would not be
the most cost-effective use of limited capital funds and specialized human resources that are necessary for a
blood transfusion service to meet international standards of quality and safety. Investing in a few regional
blood centers was considered a more cost-effective approach to improving the blood transfusion services of
the many hospitals within a given center's service area.
The project also considered the Vietnam Red Cross as an alternative national institution for establishing
and operating the country's network of blood transfusion centers. The Red Cross performs this function
effectively in many other countries. The Vietnam Red Cross has had long and extensive involvement in
blood transfusion activities. The project, however, decided against a major role for the Vietnam Red Cross
in implementing the project because its unique legal and organizational status, specifically its nature as
both a government agency and a non-government organization, would have introduced unnecessary
complications in the financial management of the investment and in the development of future policies on
the financing of blood services. Local Red Cross chapters at the various project sites will, however, be
involved in the voluntary donation program.
The project did not actively explore the possibility of establishing regional blood transfusion centers that
would be run and operated by non-government organizations or contracted private medical service groups.
This approach is not yet widely practiced and accepted in Vietnam's health sector. Attempting to move in
this direction would have brought additional burdens on the implementation of a project, which already
entails major reforms.
The project decided early on against establishing and building up one very large national blood center that
would provide primary blood services to hospitals all over the country. The geographic configuration of the
country and the current limitations in transport across such a long and still rugged country would have
severely limited the ability of such a center to provide truly nationwide services.
A major issue was the choice of project sites. Initially the project explored the option of improving blood
transfusion services in the more remote and poorer provinces with the intention of reducing the risks of
transfusion first among the poorest. It became clear, however, that the immediate benefits from the large
investment costs for acquiring adequate capacities for blood safety in these sites would have been captured
by only a few poor people. The reasons are that fewer people have physical access to hospitals in the
remote provinces; clinical capabilities to effectively use blood in these hospitals are also restricted; and thus
the volumes of blood that could be effectively utilized are quite low. On the other hand, building the
capacity of more centrally located project sites in the country's main urban centers would inunediately
make blood safe to the largest number of people likely to require and obtain transfusions. At the same time,
the urban-based centers to be developed can more quickly acquire the technical capacity necessary to assist
in the later improvement, at much less cost, of blood services in the outlying areas.
Project scope: Four regional blood transfusion centers will be developed in Hanoi, Hue, Ho Chi Minh
City and Can Tho. These centers will provide blood transfusion services to 180 hospitals in 21 provinces
with a total population of about 30 million people (see Table 1 in Annex 2). The project will also support
the training of specialist blood transfusion staff for other future RBTCs that might be developed after the
project.
Within each region of 5-6 provinces, the project assistance to the RBTC will support all the key operational
- 13 -



requirements to achieve blood safety, namely: voluntary donation recruitment programs; blood bank
operations programs; effective clinical use of blood programs; quality management programs; RBTC staff
development programs; and facility and logistics management programs.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Upgrading of primary health services  VN: National Health Support   S             S
plus support for national TB and  Project (Cr. 2808-VN)
malaria program; policy component
focusing on health financing and health
expenditures
Identical focus as above on primary  VN: Population and Family      S             S
health plus upgrading of national  Health Project (Cr. 2807-VN)
Family Planning/Reproductive Health
program
Other development agencies
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
In the eight years since IDA started project work in the social sector in Vietnam, a number of projects have
encountered difficulties. A nutrition project did not materialize due to concems about institutional
readiness to implement. Projects in primary education, population and family planning and primary health
have had long initial implementation difficulties for roughly similar reasons. The project design has learned
from experience in these projects by incorporating the following lessons:
(a) Needfor prior agreement on key policies and institutional changes that are essentialfor the project
to succeed
Early in preparation, IDA agreed with the government on the following key policy and institutional
changes: (i) the urgency of shifting as quickly as possible to voluntary unpaid donation without
prematurely restricting paid donations in order not to disrupt the current supply of blood; (ii) promulgation
of the administrative status, operational authority and specific functions of the regional blood transfusion
centers; and (iii) adoption of intemational standards of blood services quality and safety based on WHO
recommendations. While it was not possible to obtain prior agreement on the crucial issue of future policies
on financing the operations of the regional blood centers, the project includes a sub-component to assist the
government in developing these policies over the project life.
(b) Early availability ofproject management capability and a seamless link between preparation and
implementation
The project management unit will be based at the NIHBT, which has been IDA's primary counterpart in
the extensive preparation work for the project. The NIHBT worked with IDA in conducting the first ever
- 14 -



nation-wide baseline survey of blood services, a household survey in six provinces on popular attitudes
towards blood donation, and an extensive inventory of blood bank staff and facilities in the country. Many
of the technical staff of the NIHBT who would be involved in project implementation have participated in
the field assessments and discussions with the four project sites.
(c) Participation of regional institutions and local governments during preparation and implementation
Two of the regional centers will be implemented by MOH central hospitals at Hue and Ho Chi Minh City.
The respective hospital management of these two central hospitals, in addition to the staff of their hospital
blood services departments, were actively engaged in project preparation. The regional blood center in Can
Tho will be implemented by the Can Tho provincial government. The Can Tho Provincial People's
Committee, its Provincial Health Bureau, in addition to its provincial hospital staff, were similarly engaged
in project preparations. These organizations will also be crucial participants in the implementation of the
project. In addition to the PMU at the national and Hanoi level, regional PMUs will implement the regional
activities of the project. The PMU and RPMUs will manage their own special accounts to encourage
decentralization and regional initiative.
(d) Since the substantive elements of the project cannot be limitedfor design reasons, complexity is
managed by limiting the geographic coverage
In order to attain the project objectives, it will be necessary to carry out a wide range of activities from:
public education to build a sufficiently large voluntary donors base; to performing highly specialized
technical tasks like blood collection, testing, distribution and cross-matching; to monitoring clinical
transfusions and clinicians' transfusion practices; to training staff; to constructing and renovating
buildings; and to procuring equipment, reagents and medical supplies. Implementation at each project site
unavoidably entails a complex set of activities and inputs. Excessive project complexity is being managed
by limiting coverage to four sites.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government has recently prepared, approved and allocated significant amounts of its own funds to its
10-year national blood services program. The governnent also specifically requested IDA to undertake the
preparation of this project. Its support and commitment to the project has been demonstrated through its
generally acceptable and timely execution of the PHRD grant for project preparation. Various agencies of
the government, from the central MOH to the NIHBT to the central hospitals to the provincial
governments, have indicated their strong public support for the project, made their senior officials available
to work in project preparation and signified their readiness to also make available required project sites and
staff necessary for project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA investments could accelerate the improvement of blood services in Vietnam in a way that is both
cost-effective in the use of scarce capital funds as well as technically more effective in its clinical impact.
The dialogue between the government and IDA on the development of a nationwide network of regional
facilities can also be a platform for further extension of this policy dialogue in the context of larger public
hospital reform efforts in Vietnam. IDA's ability to mobilize technical resources through the WHO as well
as through the global network of support institutions such as the CDC and others will be crucial to
Vietnamn's transition to international standards of quality and safety in its blood services. IDA's
involvement with current projects in primary health care and reproductive health all over the country will
provide an important public health perspective to the improvement of such a specialized clinical service as
- 15-



blood transfusions. IDA's prior work on the Vietnam health sector review, with its important findings on
emerging patterns of financing health care, will strengthen the project's future response to financial
sustainability and equity issues as applied to the provision and use of safe blood services.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Safe blood services principally benefit very sick people while the basic raw material is provided only by
healthy people who voluntarily donate their blood. The production and utilization of safe blood services is
thus unavoidably a community risk-pooling and risk-sharing enterprise. The critical choices for the most
economically efficient way to meet safe blood needs revolve around selecting the most cost-effective scale
for a given community to provide and utilize safe blood services. The economic analysis suggests that the
most important economic questions in this regard are: (1) What is the most cost-effective way to increase
the total quantity of safe blood available to hospitals?; (2) given the answer to the first question, what level
of increase in quantity of safe blood is economically justifiable?; and (3) given the answer to the second
question, what level of investment and recurrent cost expenditure is economically justifiable?
Ouestion 1. Maximizing the benefits of large up-front investments to improve blood safety can
be met by expanding only the output in those blood centers with the greatest potential of producing and
utilizing the highest volume of safe blood services. This ensures that the investment expenditures necessary
to meet basic standards of blood safety are spread over a higher quantity of blood units produced and used.
Thus the project design aims to expand the output only in four strategically located blood banks with the
highest current output and the greatest existing technical capacity. In order to fully utilize the increased
output of these selected blood banks, however, it will be necessary to distribute their safe blood output
beyond their respective base hospital; hence the need for them to operate as regional blood transfusion
centers.
Ouestion 2. Use of standard WHO procedures for estimating requirements for blood results in a projected
need of about 600,000 units of blood for the population covered by the project. While the project
investment costs assume an end-of-project capacity for all the four regional centers at around 300,000 units
per year, there are built-in provisions for cutting back on output expansion or increasing output beyond the
base targets in the event that actual demand for blood transfusion grows much slower or much faster than
projected. The important point, however, is that an investment approach that expands the blood centers'
output to about half the estimated potential need is probably consistent with ensuring that the expanded
output of safe blood is fully and appropriately used in patient care.
Ouestion 3. Over the five-year period of the project, the four regional centers would have produced a total
of 900,000 blood units even as their aggregate medium-term production capacity would have increased
from about 60,000 units per year to 300,000 units per year. What is the aggregate level of investment that
makes economic sense in this context? The analysis calculates average unit costs for currerit output and
permanent capacity for additional output, as well as the cost per lives saved by a transfusion. In each case,
when these are translated into aggregate investment levels, the project's proposed investments appear
conservative.
- 16 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
From a financial perspective, the project finances a five-year slice of the total operations of four regional
blood centers. At present, the government operates existing blood banks in the four project sites. The
current technical quality and existing quantity of output of these blood centers, however, are very low
relative to the levels required for meeting the project's objectives. In the five years of the project, all the
sites will have to upgrade their operations to much higher standards of blood safety. Thus, for all practical
purposes the centers can be regarded as starting at zero.
The financial costs to be absorbed by the project cover both the investment costs for upgrading four centers
to increased production capacity at higher standards of safety as well as the total recurrent costs to be
incurred by these centers in operating at the expected levels of output during the five-year period of the
project life. From the perspective of IDA's financing policies, the total recurrent costs for five years are
treated as incremental recurrent costs generated by the project investment.
Including all expenditures to be incurred by the four regional centers to upgrade their operations and to
produce safe blood services for five years as part of the project simplifies the full and proper estimation of
the financial costs of attaining the project's objectives. The approach also facilitates transparent recognition
of the total recurrent costs that are going to be incurred if safe blood services are to be sustained after the
project life. This will then prepare the ground for a clear decision on how the future costs of producing safe
blood services would be financed after the project.
The project is expected to create the following key financial effects, namely,: the shifting of the burden of
financial costs of producing blood services away from individual hospitals towards their concentration in
regional blood centers; an increase in unit costs to produce blood services at higher standards of safety; and
the increase in the total quantity of output produced by the regional centers and used by hospitals, all of
which will rapidly increase the total costs for operating the regional blood centers.
The temptation will be strong to finance the operations of the regional blood centers largely through the sale
of blood to patients. Yielding to this temptation could lead potentially to many difficulties such as
undesirable effects of patient payments on blood usage, financial barriers to effective use of blood, lack of
access to blood by those who cannot pay, and inhibiting blood donations from voluntary unremunerated
donors. It is therefore clear that future policies on the financing of the operations of the regional blood
centers will be a major issue for financial sustainability. For this reason, the project includes a specific
sub-component in the national support and capability component to address this issue.
The financing of blood services in the future will need to confront two critical issues:
(a) How to fully cover the operating costs of the regional blood centers
(b) How to eliminate the explicit payment by patients for blood transfused to them
Potential solutions, which will be explored during the project, could involve the following:
(a) Adopting transparent procedures and standards for planning, projecting, accounting and
reporting the total annual operating costs of the regional blood centers
(b) Negotiating a fair scheme for charging hospitals being served by these regional blood centers
so that the total costs of the centers are fully covered
- 17-



(c) Developing an efficient and equitable mechanism by which hospitals pay their allocated share
of the blood centers' operating costs from their regular budget as well as from their general
revenues from their operations
(d) Evolving a patient charging mechanism that eliminates the direct payment by patients for blood
transfused to them, but which also allows sufficient means for hospitals to generate enough
compensatory patient revenues to cover their share of the blood centers' costs.
(e) Making sure that the implementation of policies and mechanisms for financing do not lead to
incentives for misuse, over-use or under-use of blood by clinicians and also do not reduce
access to blood by any patient in need of transfusion.
Fiscal Impact:
See above
3. Technical:
Overall Technical Design of the Project:
The project's technical design is based on the most current recommendations of the World Health
Organization Blood Safety Unit (WHO/BLS) on an integrated strategy for blood safety. The strategy has
the following key elements:
(a) The collection of blood only from voluntary non-remunerated donors from low-risk
populations.
(b) The screening of all donated blood and blood products for transfusion-transmissible infections,
including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis viruses, syphilis and other infectious
agents, and good laboratory practice in all aspects of blood grouping, compatibility testing,
component preparation and the storage and transportation of blood products.
(c) A reduction in unnecessary transfusion through the effective clinical use of blood and blood
products, and the use of simple alternatives to transfusion, whenever possible:
The project uses: (a) the social marketing model to build an adequate voluntary blood donors population;
(b) the production laboratory model to improve quality of blood bank operations; and (c) the behavioral
change model for clinicians' practice to promote the effective clinical use of blood.
Technical Approaches to Sub-Components: The social marketing model has been widely used to
increase the use of contraceptives for family planning, use of condoms for prevention of HIV and sexually
transmitted infections, breast-feeding, correct child nutrition and weaning practices, among others. Social
marketing practices are being adapted by the project to increase first time voluntary unpaid donors and to
recruit from among them repeat, and eventually, regular donors.
The production scale blood laboratory that meets international standards of good manufacturing practice is
an already established and widely accepted facility among the world's best national blood services. A wide
variety of technically accepted blood testing and screening technologies are available in the market. There
are available options using proprietary technologies for integrated equipment and supplies systems. There
- 18 -



are also other options using generic technologies in equipment models using independent but compatible
lines of supplies. Cost-effectiveness, appropriateness for Vietnam's conditions, and similar considerations
will be used to select the technologies to be installed at each blood center. The project will use at least two
alternative technologies for the major aspects of processing whole blood packs for infection testing and
blood type grouping; one technology will be used as the mainstay process; another different but equivalent
technology will be used as a confirmatory or back-up process. Equipment and supplies standardization
within the national blood services will be adopted as appropriate. Once the rationale for production of
blood components at each project site has been duly established, selection of the appropriate technologies to
undertake this shall proceed using the same principles as for the production of whole blood. The Council of
Europe standards for preparation, use and quality assurance of blood components will be used as the basic
guide for the development, operation and evaluation of the RBTCs.
The project anticipates that many technological issues in blood laboratory operations cannot be settled at
present and will need to be satisfactorily resolved in the course of implementation. These include such
matters as the level of mechanization, automation, computerization and technological integration of blood
laboratory operations. It is also expected that new technological innovations in blood testing are likely
during project life. For these reasons, the project provides support for extemal technical assistance that will
be essential for the sound resolution of these future technical issues.
The behavior change model for clinician practice is the current standard approach for getting practicing
physicians to adopt best clinical practices. Considerable experience exists in many developed and
developing countries in the application of this model to the wider adoption among practicing physicians of
such practices as oral rehydration therapy for infant and child diarrhea, directly-observed treatment for
short-course multi-drug regimens for tuberculosis, correct management of hypertension, among others. The
project uses the same model for the promotion of effective clinical use of blood. An important aspect of the
project's application of this model is the use of distance leaming modules in order to deliver training to
physicians and transfusion staff working in highly dispersed hospitals. There is substantial international
experience in delivering WHO distance leaming programs in blood transfusion, with the exception of the
module on clinical use of blood, which has just been recently published. Vietnam will build on this large
and extensive body of global experience in distance learning.
Reliability of Investment Estimates: The project costs estimates contain a number of sources of
uncertainty:
(a) The investmnent costs for mobilizing and retaining sufficient numbers of voluntary unpaid donors
could be higher or lower depending on the cultural resistance or response of comnmunities in
Vietnam. It is likely that the actual unit costs of recruiting and retaining regular blood donors will
be lower because of high levels of social capital and long traditions of social solidarity.
(b) The investment costs for blood laboratories will be very sensitive to technological innovations in
the market and to decisions concerning the extent that international quality standards should be
implemented. The demand for blood safety is fueling the development of additional and new
techniques with ever more sensitive and specific testing technologies, some of which could make
the costs lower but most of which are going to make costs higher. The technological choices (and
corresponding costs) available in the market now are not likely to remain the same over the project
life.
(c) Certain quantitative targets (such as the number of blood units collected and transfused, number of
hospitals served, number of voluntary blood donors recruited and retained) drive the levels of
- 19 -



investment costs. These targets depend fundamentally on the actual clinical demand for blood that
the project will need to meet. It is assumed that future clinical demand will increase, but there are
considerable uncertainties about the magnitude of the actual increase relative to the underlying
demand consistent with the project's quantitative targets. Implementation of the investments will,
of course, respond to actual patterns of clinical demand for blood that will emerge during the
project life.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MOH has implemented an IDA-financed project for five years (the National Health Support Project
(NHSP). The project also has five years of unqualified opinions from an international accounting firm on
its Entity (MOH), SOE/Project and Special Account financial statements.
4.2 Project management:
The project will be implemented using the structure outlined in section C.4. Project management
arrangements were influenced by IDA's experience with the MOH implementation of the NHSP.
1. Establishment of a PMU and its Institutional Location
A Project Management Unit will be established to plan and carry out project activities, including
procurement and contracting under the project. While several members of the MOH staff have been trained
on management of IDA-supported projects, capacity has not sufficiently diffused throughout the Ministry
to enable regular units to carry out project implementation. MOH has appointed staff experienced in
IDA-financed projects as resource persons for the new PMU for the project.
The PMU for NHSP operates from the Projects Coordination Department of the MOH. This PMU is
separated from the implementing agencies of NHSP components such as MOH staff departments (like
Planning or Treatment or Science and Training), national institutes (like TB and malaria) and provincial
health departments. This institutional arrangement was adopted because the PMU coordinates
implementation of a broad array of investments that will be absorbed and subsequently sustained by a wide
range of other agencies. Locating the PMU in any one of the MOH agencies would have limited its ability
to support other agencies implementing other project components. It was also the intention of the MOH
that, after the NHSP, the PMU could move on to coordinate other investments in other areas.
The PMU for the project will be located at the National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion
because the project investments involve implementation of capacities and activities that will be absorbed
and subsequently sustained by the Institute. This arrangement: (a) streamlines decision-making on
technical issues that delayed implementation of NHSP activities due to disagreements between the PMU
and the Institutes; (b) facilitates close integration of the project with the national program; and (c) allows
for a smooth transition to the post-project institutional framework.
2. Establishment of Regional PMUs (RPMUs) with Separate Special Accounts
The field implementation of the NHSP involved the creation of Provincial Project Implementation Units
(PPIUs) that depended on the guidance and intensive support by the national-level PMU. The PPIUs
focused on a few activities of the project (mostly civil works and training) in many sites all over the
country. This arrangement was appropriate for the purposes of the NHSP.
-20 -



The project involves the creation of RPMUs with their own corresponding special accounts for each of the
four regional blood transfusion centers. This arrangement is necessary for the much wider array of
activities that need to be carried out in each region. Regional activities include civil works, training,
voluntary blood donation camnpaigns, blood collection, blood testing, monitoring of clinical practices, and
others. This arrangement is also consistent with strengthening capacity for self-sufficient management of
the regional blood centers. The RPMUs will be transitioned to form the core staff of the regional blood
centers in the post-project institutional framework.
3. Creating Internal Demand for Implementation Performance
IDA's experience with the NHSP points to two important lessons. Adequate management and technical
capacity for implementation is necessary, but not sufficient, for sustained high levels of implementation
performance. It is also important to create intemal demand for decisions and actions that comprise
successful implementation. Sufficient capacity for project implementation is being secured by re-deploying
some of MOH staff with experience and training as well as by providing more intensive training of other
staff in project implementation skills.
Internal demand for implementation performance would be created as follows: (a) demand for prompt
decisions by MOH's Project Steering Committee, chaired by an assigned Vice Minister, is generated from
the NIHBT, which has responsibility for national-level activities; (b) demand for prompt action by the
NIHBT is generated by the various regional blood centers, which depend on national-level actions for their
own activities; (c) demand for implementation by the regional blood transfusion centers is generated by the
individual hospitals that the blood centers are supposed to serve; (d) demand for blood services in hospitals
is generated by the clinicians, their patients and the general community. The project implementation
arrangements reflect these streams of stakeholder demands.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project is rated average on procurement risk. As most procurement will be handled centrally, this
reduces the procurement burden on the RPMUs where capacity is weaker. Procurement responsibilities
will be clearly defined and technical assistance provided as needed. (See Annex 6 for details.)
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was conducted by the accounting firm of Grant Thorton Vietnam. The
assessment concluded that the institutions that will host the PMU and RPMUs have the basic framework to
handle the accounting and disbursement aspects of the project. However, the managers and staff of these
institutions have limited experience in meeting IDA-financed project management information needs.
Weaknesses that need to be addressed are: l) satisfactory staffing of accounting and disbursement units;
2) development of project financial management system and policies and disbursement procedures; 3)
enhanced transparency of project progress through improved reporting of financial information; and 4)
satisfactory auditing arrangements.The action plan that will be implemented (see Annex 6) will serve to
address these weaknesses and ensure that capacity is adequate to address current financial management
deficiencies. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will be selected to audit project accounts.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project will involve the production of the following categories of hospital waste: general infectious
waste, pathologic waste and chemical waste and sharps. The current management and disposal of these
- 21 -



categories of hospital wastes at the project sites were assessed by an international consulting firm with
specific expertise in environmental waste management. It was determined that management of these wastes
was not up to international standards and as a result the following actions are proposed (see Annex 11).
The project costs include investments for hospital waste management measures to eliminate the worst
environmental risks associated with project activities and the incremental recurrent costs required for
continued implementation of these waste management measures.
The investments will include training of waste management staff, waste collection buckets, labels and
information materials, trolleys and buckets for internal transport of hospital waste, and new or improved
waste treatment facilities in two project sites (Hue and Can Tho).
The incremental recurrent costs include improved quality waste collection bags, puncture-proof containers
for sharps, replacements for buckets and trolleys, and supplies for running waste treatment facilities.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Project activities in Hue and Ho Chi Minh City will occur in new buildings constructed on the grounds of
existing hospitals. In Hanoi, a building will be constructed at a new site to be located some distance from
the Bach Mai Hospital (where the NIHBT is currently housed). The regional blood transfusion center in
Can Tho will be located immediately adjacent to the new regional hospital that is being constructed.
Construction of new buildings under the project and implementation of other project activities in Hue and
Ho Chi Minh City therefore will not involve displacement or relocation of any households or businesses. In
Hanoi, the Hanoi People's Committee will allocate a site for the RBTC in an area appropriately zoned for
such use. As this site is still to be identified through negotiations between the MOH and the People's
Committee, the Government has agreed to use of a Resettlement Policy Framework for addressing any
safeguard requirements that the site might entail once identified. IDA disbursement for civil works and
goods contracts for the new site will be authorized only when all safeguard requirements have been met. A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared for Can Tho. One family is currently living on the site and
will be relocated in accordance with IDA's resettlement policy. Some 32 households utilize the existing site
for agricultural purposes. The provincial governmnent will provide these households with alternative land
and/or compensation in cash for any loss of assets in full compliance with IDA's resettlement policy.
- 22 -



Drafts of the Resettlement Policy Framework for the Hanoi RBTC and of the RAP for the Can Tho RBTC
have been disclosed locally and provided to IDA's InfoShop.
The main social issue to be addressed by the project is the potential conflict between the existing
stakeholders' interests in the current system of blood service provision and financing versus the new set of
stakeholder interests that need to emerge around the regional blood transfusion centers.
A social analysis of the current system of blood services was undertaken to understand how the present
situation might affect the attainment of project objectives. Individual hospitals depend on their respective
blood banks to screen and draw blood from paid donors with the collected blood packs transfused to
patients for a fee. The current system is sustained by the convergence of interests among the following: the
donors who receive payment for their donations, the clinicians whose orders for blood transfusions are
satisfactorily met, the patients who receive and pay for these transfusions and the hospital that operates the
blood bank as a revenue generating part of its services. The social analysis, however, indicated that the
commitment of the different stakeholder groups to the current system is relatively weak. Paid blood donors
do not depend on blood donation as their primary source of income. Clinicians are becoming more
concemed about the continued availability of safe blood in the immediate and medium term. Patients bear
heavy financial burdens due to hospitalization and consider payments for blood as a part of that burden.
Hospitals face many competing demands for investments in facilities and may regard the investment needs
of blood services as yet another contender for limited resources.
The social analysis revealed that new stakeholders could be mobilized to support the restructuring of the
current blood services. Hospital management and clinicians increasingly recognize the need for increased
levels of blood safety, including the urgency of shifting to voluntary unpaid donations as the main source of
blood. Availability of extemal assistance to meet the investment needs for attaining higher levels of blood
safety can generate support from these providers. In addition, a growing community of healthy voluntary
donors could be mobilized by the new blood services as the primary stakeholders of the new system. By
shifting the source of stakeholder support for blood services from mostly participants in a commercial
system (i.e., paid donors, clinicians ordering blood that is sold, hospitals deriving revenues from patient
payments for blood) to people involved in acts of sustained social solidarity (i.e., unpaid voluntary donors,
clinicians ordering blood according to clinical need, blood services staff whose operations are financed by
means other than through the sale of blood packs to patients), the conditions are better for attaining the
project objective of securing the clinical benefits from safe blood services for the population covered by
hospitals served by the RBTCs.
Two other key social issues were identified. The first issue involves the differential access to the project
benefits between the project sites and the non-project sites. Concurrent improvements in hospital blood
banks under the government's national program as well as future development of additional regional blood
centers should sufficiently address this matter. The second issue involves the confidentiality of results from
screening tests of blood donors, particularly with respect to screening for HIV. This matter will be
explicitly addressed in the operating procedures of the regional blood centers, in the training of blood
donation and laboratory staff, and in the commitments of blood center management.
The social development outcomes from the project include greater public satisfaction and confidence with
the availability of sufficient quantities of safe blood for clinical needs, greater social cohesion through
blood services sustained by voluntary unpaid donation, and greater equity in access to safe blood services.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project preparation involved a series of participatory processes which included the following: (a)
- 23 -



extensive consultations with hospital management, clinical staff and blood services staff in the four project
sites of the country; (b) similar consultations at the project sites with local political leaders, representatives
of the local Red Cross, Women's Union and Youth Union, particularly on mobilizing community
participation in voluntary unpaid blood donation; (c) a wider stakeholder assessment exercise in six
provinces representing the various regions of the country, which involved focus group discussions with
local stakeholders and a survey of 3,000 households (500 for each of the six provinces) conceming
attitudes towards existing blood services and towards expansion of voluntary blood donation. In addition,
participatory approaches in project implementation include decentralized implementation of activities to
develop the regional blood transfusion centers at each of the four project sites.
In the preparation of the RAP for the Can Tho RBTC, the Borrower has met and had consultations with the
individuals and households affected by selection of the site.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As noted above, local political leaders, representatives of the local Red Cross, Women's Union and Youth
Union, will be actively involved in implementation, particularly in mobilizing community participation in
voluntary unpaid blood donation
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See above
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Monitoring the attainment of the social development outcomes is imbedded in the monitoring of the
component outputs and project objectives. Hospital management and clinical staff are the primary
stakeholders that need to be satisfied with the performance of regional blood transfusion centers in terms of
efficient and responsive provision of safe blood services. Community stakeholders, as voluntary donors as
well as patients receiving blood transfusions, would also be among the primary stakeholders that need to be
satisfied with the performance of the regional blood centers. Thus, monitoring the indicators of project
objectives and component output would simultaneously involve monitoring the social development
outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    App__cab_ _    _ty
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  C ) Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         *        No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       O Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 24-



A set of activities has been agreed upon with the government to address the environmental risks associated
with the project, notably conceming health waste management. Project funding includes provision for the
incremental recurrent costs of continued implementation of health waste management measures.
Resettlement issues have been addressed through the implementation of a Resettlement Action Plan or
Resettlement Policy Framework for those project sites where applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Two interlinked factors will influence the sustainability of project benefits. First, unless the project
succeeds in significantly increasing the extent of voluntary blood donations, it will not be possible to
achieve, and sustain, the levels of blood safety that are critical to project objectives. Similarly, if the
project is unable to realize intemational standards of good manufacturing practice in blood safety
operations, it will not be possible for the RBTCs to provide the service they are intended to provide or to
attract the funding and other resources that will make their operations sustainable over the long term.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Blood centers prematurely produce and       S        As such actions would increase rather than
distribute blood components before their             lower the risks of unsafe blood, milestones will
sources of donation have shifted to                  be met with respect to voluntary donations and
voluntary donors and quality assurance               quality assurance before funding is made
standards of their blood laboratories have           available for blood components
become reliable
From Components to Outputs
Build-up of regular voluntary blood         S        Significant project resources and TA are
donors does not proceed well ahead of the            dedicated to supporting the growth of voluntary
expansion of regional blood bank                     blood donations
operations
Measures to finance sustained operations    S        A project sub-component will examine
of upgraded and expanded regional blood              specifically how to generate adequate financial
centers do not assure sufficient funding to          resources to cover costs as well as how to
maintain voluntary donation programs and             eliminate the current direct payments by patients
quality of blood bank operations, thus               for blood transfusions
creating financial barriers for poor
patients in need of blood and providing
incentives for clinicians to misuse,
over-use or under-use blood
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 25 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Increased testing of blood will mean increased testing for HIV/AIDS. There is a slight danger that
discriminatory actions could be taken against those testing positive (particularly sex workers and drug
users). This matter will be explicitly addressed in the operating procedures of the regional blood transfusion
centers, in the training of blood donation and laboratory staff, and in the commitments of blood center
management.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Key staff for the PMU have been selected and appointed for the following positions, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association: PMU director, deputy PMU director, procurement officer, finance
officer, monitoring and coordination officer. Similarly, the following staff have been appointed for the
RBTCs at Hue, Cho Ray and Can Tho under terms of reference acceptable to the Association: RPMU
director, Procurement officer and Finance officer. In addition, a deputy RPMU director has been appointed
for Can Tho.
The Borrower has adopted a project implementation plan, including a financial management systems
manual, satisfactory to the Association.
The Borrower has: (i) established a computerized financial management system, including installation of a
specialized financial management software; and (ii) completed financial management training for the staff
of the PMU and RPMUs; all in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Account/audits
Project accounts (including the Special Accounts and the Statements of Expenditures) will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and audit reports will be forwarded to IDA within six
months after the end of the year.
Management aspects of the project or executing agency
The Borrower will maintain throughout the implementation of the project the Project Steering Committee,
under the direction of a vice minister of the Ministry of Health, responsible for providing guidance and
direction to the PMU and ensuring collaboration with other relevant agencies to facilitate implementation.
The Borrower will maintain throughout the implementation of the project adequate management and staff
for the PMU including: PMU director, deputy PMU director, procurement officer, finance officer,
monitoring and coordination officer; for each of the three RBTCs at Hue, Cho Ray and Can Tho: RPMU
director, procurement officer and finance officer. In addition, for Can Tho only, a deputy RPMU director.
Prior to initiating the procedures for the procurement of the first contract under international competitive
bidding procedures, the Borrower, through the PMU, shall engage the services of a procurement advisor
- 26 -



under terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Project implementation will follow the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) acceptable to IDA; revisions to
the PIP will require a no objection from IDA.
Monitoring, review and reporting. The Borrower agrees that it will:
Monitor the agreed key performance and impact indicators that relate to project objectives and document
these in the semi-annual reports.
By November 30 of each year, prepare and provide to the Association for its review and comment an
annual work program, including projected budget, and an annual procurement plan, for the following
calendar year.
Conduct a mid-term review no later than March 31, 2005.
Ensure that the PMU will submit the following reports to IDA: (i) semi-annual reports on March 31 and
September 30 of each year, commencing on March 31, 2003; (ii) a report for the project's mid-term review
by June 30, 2005; and (iii) within 6 months after project completion, the Government contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report evaluating the project's performance.
Hold jointly with the Association, reviews of implementation and the annual work plan each year by
January 30.
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
The Borrower shall cause each RBTC to implement waste management measures satisfactory to the
Association, adequate to enable the disposal of unsafe and unusable blood and blood components and used
equipment and instruments in an environmentally safe manner.
MOH shall coordinate with the Can Tho People's Committee to carry out the resettlement and
rehabilitation of affected persons in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan for the Can Tho RBTC .
MOH will also coordinate with the Hanoi People's Committee to ensure full implementation of the
Resettlement Policy Framework for the Hanoi RBTC, in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Disbursement for
goods and civil works for the Hanoi RBTC will be conditional upon preparation of a Resettlement Action
Plan satisfactory to IDA in accordance with the policies and procedures of the Resettlement Policy
Framework.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
- 27 -



0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The draft Project Implementation Plan was discussed during appraisal and negotiations and is being revised
to incorporate comments made by IDA during negotiations. Adoption of the Plan is a condition of
effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
L. Richard Meyerse                                                Andrew D. Steer
Team Leader                      Sector Director                  Country Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                                  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:      Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Maintain Vietnam's      Improved cost effectiveness Health sector reviews  Continued macro-economic
competitiveness, and    in health sector                                  stability
improve the welfare of its                        Demographic and health
people, by improving the  Increased equity in access to survey            Sustained economic growth
quality of the health care  and utilization of health
system and restoring and  services                Vietnam National Health  Increased allocation of
maintaining trust and                             Survey                  resources to health sector
confidence in the health  Continued reduction in
system                   mortality and morbidity  CAS reports             Improved management of
the health sector
- 29 -



| Key Perfor'rnance                      Wo'*'| aab 4 *n 
| H ieh!W-w "Ob|:bcAPrm                    e                                Critical Assumptions
Project Development      Outcome I Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
To secure health benefits of For population and   Monthly reports of RBTCs  General socio-economic and
safe blood transfusions for  hospitals in service area of                  infrastructure conditions
the population covered   the RBTCs:               Quarterly reports of     continue to improve thereby
hospitals served by                               hospital blood transfusion  facilitating the access of the
Regional Blood Transfusion --% of required hospital  committees            population in greatest need
Centers (RBTCs)          blood stock met by RBTC                           to preventive and curative
increased                Annual reports on regional  health services involving the
blood transfusion services  use of blood
--% of quantity of blood
products required for care                        Health services are able to
of hemophiliac increased                          provide other essential
health services required by
--% of blood transfusions                         patients in addition to blood
with adverse clinical                             transfusions
consequences decreased
--% of blood-transmissable
infections transmitted
through transfusions
decreased
- 30 -



Key Performance     ] Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators                               i Critical Assumptions
Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:        (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. To establish by 2006 a  --% share of total blood  Seports             Low-risk groups in the
regional blood transfusion  collection of RBTC drawn  p                  population respond
center in Hanoi that:   from voluntary donors and  Supervision mission reports positively to rapidly
(a) collects about 100,000  from repeat voluntary                        increased numbers of
units of blood per year,  donors                 Project Mid-term Review  regular, voluntary, unpaid
70% of which come from                                                   blood donors from among
voluntary, unpaid blood  --rating by external audit  External Technical Quality their ranks
donors; (b) tests, processes, team to a given RBTC on  Audit Reports
stores and distributes whole compliance with Council of                  Blood transfusion staff
blood and some blood     Europe standards        Project Implementation  apply their newly acquired
components according to                          Completion Report       technical capacities and
international standards of  --% of hospitals in the                      facilities to adopt and
good manufacturing      service area supplied with                       consistently maintain the
practice; (c) meets the  blood products by RBTC                          highest quality standards
clinical needs for blood of                                              essential for the
70 hospitals in a 5-province --% of clinicians in the                     significantly higher scale of
region with a population of service area oriented on the                 blood centers' operations
8 million.              WHO guidelines for clinical
use of blood                                     Hospitals increasingly rely
on the output of the blood
--% of hospitals in the                          centers for blood supply in
service area with active                         the wards and effectiveness
hospittrasfof hospital clinicians'
committees                                       practice significantly
improves with greater and
more reliable availability of
sufficient quantities of safe
blood for patients
Blood centers do not
prematurely produce and
distribute blood components
until their sources of
donation have shifted to
voluntary donors and
quality assurance standards
of their blood laboratories
have become reliable
2. To establish by 2006 a  Same as above         Same as above            Same as above
regional blood transfusion
- 31 -



center in Hue that: (a)
collects about 60,000 units
of blood per year, 70% of
which come from voluntary,
unpaid blood donors; (b)
tests, processes, stores and
distributes whole blood and
some blood components
according to intemational
standards of good
manufacturing process; (c)
meets the clinical needs for
blood of 40 hospitals in a
5-province region with a
population of 5 million.
3. To establish by 2006 a  Same as above        Same as above            Same as above
regional blood transfusion
center in Ho Chi Minh
City that: (a) collects about
100,000 units of blood per
year, 70% of which come
from voluntary, unpaid
blood donors; (b) tests,
processes, stores and
distributes whole blood and
some blood components
according to international
standards of good
manufacturing practice; (c)
meets the clinical needs for
blood of 35 hospitals in a
6-province region with a
population of 10 million.
4. To establish by 2006 a  Same as above        Same as above            Same as above
regional blood transfusion
center in Can Tho that: (a)
collects about 60,000 units
of blood per year, 70% of
which come from voluntary
unpaid blood donors; (b)
tests, processes, stores and
distributes whole blood
according to international
standards of good
manufacturing practice; (c)
meets the clinical needs for
blood of 35 hospitals in a
- 32 -



5-province region with a
population of 7 million.
5. To establish by 2006  Adoption of national blood  Same as above         Same as above
essential national standards financing policies to sustain
for blood transfusion    operations of regional blood
services (including policies  transfusion centers
on financing the operations
of regional blood        Completion of training of
transfusion centers) and the target number of blood
core technical capabilities at transfusion specialists for
other future additional  future RBTCs
RBTCs
- 33 -



KeyPerformance     | Data Colection Strategy
|Hierarchy o,f 0 i_ves         Indicators                                 Critical Assumptions
Project Components     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
1. Hanoi RBTC           (US$14.78)              Progress reports        Rapid build-up of regular
voluntary blood donors
Supervision mission reports proceeds well ahead of the
expansion of regional blood
Annual audit report    bank operations
(a) regional voluntary                         Same as above           Output of regional blood
donation recruitment                                                    centers increases faster than
program                                                                 demand for blood in the
base hospital in order to
accommodate expansion of
blood service to other
hospitals in the region
(b) regional blood bank                        Same as above           Increased availability of
operations program                                                      blood and interventions to
improve effectiveness of
clinical use of blood
increase demand for blood
only to the extent beneficial
to patients
(c) regional effective                         Same as above           Unit costs of blood units
clinical use of blood                                                   made available for
program                                                                 transfusion increase only to
the point required for
shifting donor sources to
regular voluntary, unpaid
donors and for applying
best international practice in
quality assurance standards
(d) regional quality                           Same as above           Measures to finance
management program                                                     sustained operations of
upgraded and expanded
regional blood centers
assure sufficient funding to
maintain voluntary donation
program and quality of
blood bank operations
without creating financial
barriers for poor patients in
need of blood nor providing
wrong incentives for
clinicians to misuse,
- 34 -



over-use or under-use blood
(e) regional RBTC staff                           Same as above
development program
(f) regional facility and                         Same as above
logistics management
program
(g) resettlement                                  Same as above
2. Hue RBTC              (US$9.33)                 Same as above
(same subcomponents
as above except g)
3. Ho Chi Minh City RBTC (US$11.10)                Same as above
(same subcomponents
as above except g)
4. Can Tho RBTC          (US$9.33)                 Same as above
(same subcomponents
as Component 1)
5. National Support and  (US$2.96)                 Same as above
Capacity Building for
RBTCs
(a) technical support to four
regional blood centers
(b) development of blood
services financing policy
(c) training for future
RBTCS
(d) project management
- 35 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Note: Project Component amounts shown below include contingencies
By Component:
Project Component I - US$14.78 million
Development of the Hanoi Regional Blood Transfusion Center (RBTC) (at the National Institute of
Hematology and Blood Transfusion)
Component Objectives
The component will support the development and initial operation of the RBTC at the National
Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion (NIHBT) in Hanoi, which, by the end of the project in
2006, will be:
1.    Collecting up to 100,000 units of blood each year, 70% of which will come from voluntary unpaid
donors with half of these voluntary donors making repeat donations
2.     Testing, screening and labeling all blood collected for five blood transmissible infections, for ABO
grouping, and for antibodies in accordance with intemationally accepted quality assurance
standards
3.     Processing, storing, producing, distributing and tracking the use of whole blood and seven other
blood products according to international standards of safety to meet the clinical transfusion needs
of Bach Mai Hospital, 16 other central hospitals and 12 district hospitals (all in Hanoi), 6
provincial hospitals and 35 district hospitals in the four provinces of Ha Nam, Bac Ninh, Ha Tay
and Vinh Phuc, for a total of 70 hospitals (see Table 1)
4.     Providing regular informational and educational updates on the effective clinical use of blood and
blood products to hospital blood transfusion committees, clinical practitioners and blood
transfusion staff in Bach Mai Hospital and 69 central, provincial and district hospitals in five
provinces
5.     Producing comprehensive annual assessments of the current adequacy and quality of blood
transfusion services with corresponding annual plans and projections for improving such services
at Bach Mai Hospital and the 69 hospitals in the five provinces
Sub-components to Achieve the Objectives
In order to attain the above objectives, the following six sub-components would be implemented by
the project in the RBTC at the National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion.
Sub-component 1: Voluntary Donation Recruitment Program:
This would include the following main activities:
1.1   Public education campaigns on voluntary blood donation among the population of 8
- 36 -



million in the region comprising Hanoi and the four provinces to be served by the RBTC
1.2   Organizing blood collection sessions involving first time voluntary unpaid donors at fixed
and mobile sites all over the five province region
1.3    Focused campaigns to recruit and retain repeat donors from among those donors that meet
the screening standards for low-risk donors
1.4    Counseling services for blood donors
1.5   Management and administration of the voluntary unpaid donation program, including the
building up and maintenance of registries of individual donor's records
Sub-component 2: Blood Bank Operations Program
This would include the following main activities:
2.1    Collection of blood from voluntary and paid donors, at fixed and mobile sites, during mass
blood collection drives and scheduled blood collection sessions
2.2    Labeling, transporting and handling of collected blood
2.3    Testing of collected blood and disposal of infected blood
2.4    Processing, storage, and distribution of whole blood from the RBTC
2.5    Production, storage and distribution of blood components from the RBTC
2.6    Storage, cross-matching, disposal or use of RBTC-released blood at hospitals
2.7    Management of the blood service records and information system
2.8    Quality-assurance management
Sub-component 3: Effective Clinical Use of Blood Program
This would include the following main activities:
3.1    Organization, orientation and assistance to the regular operation of hospital blood
transfusion committees
3.2    Collection of data on blood transfusion practices of individual practitioners in Bach Mai
Hospital and 69 hospitals, and feedback of comparative data to practitioners
3.3    Training on clinical use of blood for blood transfusion staff of hospitals
3.4    Training on clinical use of blood for clinical staff in hospitals
3.5    Production of annual reports on pattems and trends of blood transfusion practices in Bach
- 37 -



Mai Hospital and 69 hospitals
Sub-component 4: Quality Management Program
This would include the following main activities:
4.1    Preparation of five-year plans (2002-2006) for developing blood transfusion services in
Bach Mai Hospital and the 69 hospitals in the region
4.2    Monitoring of hospital-based blood transfusion operations at Bach Mai Hospital and the
69 hospitals
4.3    Conduct of epidemiological, operational and clinical studies related to blood transfusion
medicine and blood center operations
4.4    Production of annual assessments of blood transfusion services and projections of blood
needs, collection and use in Bach Mai Hospital and the 69 hospitals included in the region
Sub-component 5: RBTC Staff Development Program
This would include recruitment, training and retention of the following core staff of the RBTC:
5.1    Regional voluntary donation program manager
5.2    Regional blood laboratory manager and supervisors
5.3    Regional blood center production manager
5.4    Regional blood collection, transport and distribution manager
5.5    Regional blood center quality assurance manager
5.6    Regional blood center infornation systems manager
5.7    Regional blood center facility management and maintenance manager
5.8    Regional clinical education manager and trainers
5.9    Regional blood center personnel and administration manager
5.10 Regional blood center budget and finance manager
Sub-component 6: Facility and Logistics Management Program
This would include the following main activities:
6.1    Conversion of existing facilities for the immediate use of the project, including
accommodation of voluntary blood donation program staff and activities
6.2    Planning, contracting and implementation of construction and equipment of a new facility
6.3    Planning, preparation or acquisition of facilities for collection, handling, transport and
storage of blood within and outside the RBTC site
6.4    Assessment and improvement of hospital-based blood storage, cross-matching and
transfusion facilities in 69 hospitals (except Bach Mai Hospital, which will be directly
served by the RBTC)
- 38 -



6.5    Maintenance of the RBTC physical facilities
Sub-component 7: Resettlement
This would the include the costs of any resettlement or compensation for households who have lost
land or other assets due to the selection of the site.
Project Component 2 - US$9.33 million
Development of the Hue RBTC (at Hue Central Hospital)
This component would support the development of a RBTC at Hue Central Hospital. It would
serve five provincial hospitals and 34 district hospitals in five provinces (see Table 1). It would involve the
same sub-components and support the support the same activities as in Component I except
Sub-component 7.
Project Component 3 - US$ 11.10 million
Development of the Ho Chi Minh City RBTC (at C'ho Ray Central Hospital)
This component would support the development of a RBTC at Cho Ray Central Hospital in Ho
Chi Minh City. It would serve five provincial hospitals and 29 district hospitals in five provinces (see
Table 1). It would involve the same sub-components and support the support the same activities as in
Component 1 except Sub-component 7.
Project Component 4 - US$9.33 million
Development of the Can Tho RBTC (in Can Tho Province)
This component would support the development of a RBTC in Can Tho Province. It would serve
five provincial hospitals and 30 district hospitals in five provinces (see Table 1). It would involve the same
sub-components and support the support the same activities as in Component 1 with one exception. It
would not produce, store and distribute blood components (sub-component 2.5 of Component 1). In
addition, the Component would include the costs of any resettlement or compensation for households who
have lost land or other assets due to the selection of the site.
Project Component 5 - US$2.96 million
National Support and Capacity Building for the RBTCs by the National Institute of Hematology and
Blood Transfusion
Component Objectives
This component would assist the National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion in
providing national-level technical, operational, and policy support as well as other capacity building inputs
critical to the success of the regional blood transfusion centers. This would be provided so that by the end
of the project in 2006:
1.     The four RBTCs assisted by the project (Hanoi, Hue, HCMC, and C'an Tho) will have attained
- 39 -



their respective component objectives in terms of collecting blood mainly from regular voluntary
unpaid donors, operating blood processing and production centers in conformance with
international standards of good manufacturing practice, providing adequate supplies of blood and
blood products to hospitals in their regions, promoting effective clinical use of blood, ensuring staff
development, and undertaking proper facility and logistics management.
2.     A set of research-based and widely discussed policy proposals for the sustainable financing of the
RBTC operations will be ready for adoption and implementation by the government.
3.     The core technical staff of other RBTCs to be established elsewhere in the country will have
obtained adequate technical training necessary to their leading the development and management of
regional blood transfusion center operations according to appropriate performance standards, as
demonstrated by the first four RBTCs.
4.     Project management will have been executed effectively in all RBTCs.
In order to attain the above objectives, the following four sub-components would be implemented.
The activities to be carried out under each sub-component are set forth below.
Sub-component 1. Support to Four RBTC's Regional Programs
Support for Regional Voluntary Donation Recruitment Programs
1.1    Contracting of qualified national organizations and agencies to plan, organize and execute
five nationwide mass media campaigns on safe blood and voluntary blood donation. These
would be thematic campaigns to raise public awareness and support for the safe blood
services program, including the development of the four regional blood transfusion centers.
The campaigns would create a favorable general climate for each RBTC to recruit regular
donors in their respective regions. These promotional campaigns would be coordinated
closely with the region-specific activities of voluntary blood donation programs of each
RBTC.
1.2   Conduct of seven national workshops (two workshops per year for Year 1 and 2; one
workshop per year for Years 3 to 5) for the regional voluntary blood donation program
staff to review progress, share experiences and obtain continuing education on donor
education, counseling, recruitment and retention.
1.3    Contracting four person months of international consultants on voluntary blood donation to
provide the four RBTCs with the benefits of relevant international experience on specific
problems and potential solutions for voluntary donation programs. Consultants may be
used, for example, to assist in planning the nationwide mass media campaigns, planning
and executing the first two national workshops to review experiences of regional voluntary
blood donation programs, or developing prototype donor recruitment and retention
methods and procedures.
Support for Regional Blood Bank Operations Programs
1.4    Contracting of a qualified international reference laboratory to perform external quality
assurance testing of the regional blood transfusion centers over a five-year period. This
-40 -



would be a competitively procured contract for an international institution to conduct a
series of external quality assurance reviews of the regional blood transfusion centers,
provide these centers with feedback on the comparative results of extemal reviews and
conduct selective training and focused technical assistance on specific weaknesses found
by the extemal reviews.
1.5    Contracting of 12 person months of intematiopal consultants to provide technical
assistance on specific technical issues in blood bank operations. Among the possible areas
of priority for technical assistance are: blood services information systems management,
commissioning of blood services systems and equipment usinig technologies unfamiliar to
the RBTC staff; setting up quality assurance systems and procedures; planning and
organizing blood transport and distribution procedures and facilities. The RBTCs may
need specialized intemational expertise specifically for scaling up their blood banking
operations to the level and scope expected to be attained by the end of the project.
Support for Regional Clinical Use of Blood Programs
1.6    Contracting of qualified national organizations or agencies to set up and maintain an
electronic communications system (including intemet service providers, e-group
moderator, webpage, and necessary communications and information technology services)
to link the NIHBT, the other RBTCs and the hospitals they serve with each other as well
as with other intemational sites (such as the intemational contractor for extemal quality
assurance; international institutions where Vietnamese blood service program staff are
being trained; other intemational organizations such as WH[O and transfusion medicine
professional associations).
1.7    Conduct of five national workshops of regional staff working on the effective clinical use
of blood to review progress, share experiences and obtain continuing education on
assessing clinician blood use practices and improving the clinical effectiveness of these
practices.
1.8    Contracting of 24 person months of national consultants to develop and introduce clinical
practice guidelines on the effective use of blood and to organize and operationalize
methods and procedures for a model hospital blood transfusion committee.
1.9    Contracting of four person months of intemational consultants on technical matters
conceming the effective clinical use of blood.
Support for Regional Quality Management Programs
1.10   Contracting of 12 person months of national consultants to develop standard procedures
for the assessment of hospital blood transfusion services, for the preparation of five-year
regional blood services development plans and for the production of annual assessments
and projections for blood services.
Support for Staff Development of Four RBTCs
1.11   Provision of individualized intemational training courses appropriate for each of the four
RBTC directors. Each of the four RBTC directors will need specialized training that meets
- 41 -



each one's unique individual needs.
Support for Facility and Logistics Management of the Four RBTCs
1.12   Contracting of two person months of international consultants to undertake the functional
planning, technical design specifications and preparation of the architectural briefs for the
three new buildings for NIHBT, Hue and Can Tho.
Sub-component 2. Support for Development of a Blood Services Financing Policy
2.1    Contracting of six person months of national consultants to develop a prototype
cost-accounting system and cost-allocation system for the RBTCs, and to implement this
prototype model in the first four RBTCs.
2.2    Support for four international study tours focused on altemative national systems of
financing blood services.
2.3    Support for three national conferences in Year 3, 4 and 5 of the project on proposed
policies for sustained financing the RBTCs after the end of the project.
Sub-component 3. Training for Future RBTCs
3.1    Starting in Year 1 of the project, key staff from other future regional blood transfusion
centers designated by the MOH would be provided training. Four staff members from each
of the four additional centers would be trained. A total of 16 person-years of international
training and another 16 person-years of national training would be provided. This would
be composed of 2 persons x 4 centers x 2 years of international fellowship training and
another 2 persons x 4 centers x 2 years of national training. This will assure that after
Year 3, the four other centers will each have at least four 4 staff members with adequate
training in blood transfusion medicine and blood laboratory operations who can lead in the
development and management of regional blood services.
Sub-component 4. Project Management
4.1.   The project will be under the Ministry of Health. A Project Steering Conmmittee, under the
direction of a vice minister of the Ministry of Health, will be responsible for providing
guidance and direction to the project. A central-level Project Management Unit (PMU) will
be established at the National Institute for Hematology and Blood Transfusion with the
necessary authority and capability to carry out the overall project implementation
responsibilities as well as the Hanoi RBTC activities. The PMU will report to the Director
of the Project Steering Committee. Three Regional Project Management Units (RPMUs)
will carry out their regional activities (as outlined in E.4.2.2) and will report
administratively to the PMU.
(a)    MOH has authorized the creation of a Project Management Unit at the NIIHBT
with specific functions and sufficient powers to manage implementation, as well as
the Regional PMUs (RPMUs) at Hue Central Hospital, Cho Ray Hospital and
Can Tho Provincial Health Bureau.
- 42 -



(b)    Specific staff have been identified to perform the functions of the following five
PMU core staff members, namely, a:
(i)    PMU director
(ii)   Deputy PMU director
(iii)  Procurement officer
(iv)   Finance officer,
(v)    Monitoring and coordination officer, and
A RPMU director, procurement officer, finance officer and monitoring and coordination
officer have been appointed in each of the three RPMUs. In addition, Can Tho has a
deputy RPMU director.
4.2.   IDA has also reviewed the available official legal authority for each of the Regional Blood
Transfusion Centers and finds that the existing legal decisions are sufficient to authorize
receipt by these four institutions of the project investments and the implementation of their
assigned activities and functions.
-43 -



Table 1
REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTER              HOSPITALS        PROVINCES       POPULATION
(RBTC)
Capacity      SERVED                             (1999)
RBTC at NIHBT/Hanoi                            70 hospitals         Hanoi         2,672,125
Projected 2006 Capacity- 100,000 units       Bach Mai Hospital     Ha Tay         2,386,772
Present 2000 Capacity-  20,500 units         16 central hospitals  Ha Nam          791,619
6 provincial hospitals  Bac Ninh       941,393
57 district hospitals  Vinh Phuc      1,091,981
(Total Pop.)     7,883,890
RBTC at Hue                                    40 hospitals         Hue           1,045,130
Projected 2006 Capacity-  60,000 units      Hue central hospital  Quang Binh       793,864
Present 2000 Capacity-   5000 units         5 provincial hospitals  Quang Nam     1,372,425
34 district hospitals  Quang Tri      573,332
Da Nang         684,131
(Total Pop.)     4,468,882
RBTC at Cho Ray/HCMC                            35 hospitals       HCMC           5,037,151
Projected 2006 Capacity- 100,000 units       Cho Ray Hospital     Dong Nai        1,989,540
Present 2000 Capacity-  30,000 units        5 provincial hospitals  Binh Duong     716,424
29 district hospitals  Binh Phuoc     653,640
Tay Ninh         965,236
Vung Tau         800,572
(Total Pop.)     10,162,563
RBTC at Can Tho                                 35 hospitals       Can Tho         1,811,139
Projected 2006 Capacity-  60,000units       5 provincial hospitals  Soc Trang     1,173,821
Present 2000 Capacity-   5000units           30 district hospitals  Vinh Long      1,010,493
An Giang        2,049,024
Bac Lieu         736,327
(Total Pop.)     6,780,804
-44 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Development of Hanoi Regional Blood Transfusion Center  5.25        7.96        13.21
(RBTC)
2. Development of Hue RBTC                                3.46         4.87         8.33
3. Development of Ho Chi Minh City RBTC                   3.38         6.37         9.75
4. Development of Can Tho RBTC                            3.32         4.97         8.29
5. National Support and Capacity Building                 1.53         1.20         2.73
Total Baseline Cost                                      16.94        25.37        42.31
Physical Contingencies                                   1.16         2.17         3.33
Price Contingencies                                      0.39         1.47         1.86
Total Project Costs1             18.49        29.01        47.50
Total Financing Required              18.49        29.01        47.50
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million  US $million
Works                                                      3.85          4.39          8.24
Goods                                                      4.00          11.00        15.00
Consumables                                                1.97          7.67          9.64
Services                                                   0.80          0.66          1.46
Training                                                    1.97          1.65         3.62
Incremental Operating Costs                                3.27          0.00          3.27
Resettlement Costs                                         0.60          0.00          0.60
Recurrent Costs                                            0.48          0.00          0.48
Physical Contingencies                                  1.16          2.17         3.33
Price Contingencies                                     0.39          1.47         1.86
Total Project Costs     18.49         29.01        47.50
Total Financing Required     18.49         29.01        47.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 5.1 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 42.4 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 90.09% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 45 -



Annex 4: Economic Analysis
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
ECONOMIC RATIONALE
A. Background on mechanisms, benefits and costs of meeting the need for safe blood transfusions
Safe blood is needed by people who require a blood transfusion in order to survive or remain healthy. The
likelihood that a person will benefit from a safe blood transfusion is determined by a clinician, usually in
the course of managing the patient at a hospital. When so indicated, the clinician orders a blood transfusion
which then has to be correctly met by the blood service. As a result of the safe transfusion, the patient's
clinical condition and health prospects should improve, or at least should not worsen.
In order to benefit from a safe blood transfusion, therefore, an individual should:
(a) have a condition that will benefit from a safe transfusion;
(b) get to a hospital where the condition can be clinically managed;
(c) have a safe transfusion ordered as part of such clinical management;
(d) receive the safe transfusion as ordered; and
(e) have the health condition improve or at least not worsen after the transfusion.
From a population standpoint, the benefits of safe blood transfusions include:
(a) reduced mortality among people who would have died without safe transfusions;
(b) reduced morbidity and disability among people whose condition would have worsened without
safe transfusions;
(c) avoiding added morbidity, disability and mortality among people who would have received
unsafe transfusions, including unnecessary transfusions;
(d) reduced hospital stays among people who would have lingered without correct and timely
transfusions or received transfusions that should have been correctly avoided;
(e) increased patient satisfaction from assurance of safe transfusion services; and
(f) increased public confidence in health services due to reliable blood services.
The costs of safe blood transfusions include:
(a) Physical and human assets acquired, developed and deployed exclusively for the production of
safe blood transfusion services;
(b) Recurrent expenses for consumables utilized to collect, test, process, store, distribute and
transfuse blood;
(c) Effort, time and inconvenience borne by voluntary blood donors; and
(d) Effort and time of clinicians to use blood transfusions in managing patients
Blood transfusions are usually associated with serious and often fatal illnesses that occur unpredictably in
the population. In most cases, the one who needs blood is also the least able to provide that blood for
himself. Safe blood services principally benefit very sick people while the basic raw material is provided
only by healthy people who voluntarily donate their blood. The production and utilization of safe blood
services is thus unavoidably a risk-pooling and risk-sharing enterprise for the community. The sources of
blood are those members of the community without a blood-transmissible infection and with particular
- 46 -



types of blood who are willing to donate blood. The beneficiaries of safe blood are people in the
community who happen to need a transfusion. The critical choices for the most economically efficient way
to meet safe blood needs revolve around selecting the most cost-efficient scale for a community to produce
and utilize safe blood services.
B. Description of the baseline situation of project sites
The project sites comprise four separate regions of contiguous areas that include 21 provinces with an
aggregate population of 30 million. These regions have 180 blood banks serving the same number of
hospitals that altogether collect and transfuse about 60,000 blood units per year.
The two largest blood banks in the project sites use between 20,000-30,000 units per year. There are also
some medium-sized blood banks handling between 5,000 to 10,000 units per year and many more small
blood banks with less than 5,000 units per year. All blood banks, regardless of size, perform all the
activities of a blood service, such as recruiting donors (mostly paid donors), collecting blood, testing blood
packs, preparing blood for storage, and cross-matching and transfusing blood to patients. Each blood bank
operates on its own. There is limited sharing of blood output among them and practically no arrangements
exist for some blood banks to undertake common functions for others.
WHO estimates that average annual blood use for a population amounts to the equivalent number in 250
ml blood units of 2% of total population. For the 30 million population of the project sites, this estimate
points to a potential annual blood need of about 600,000 units. Current blood bank output corresponds to
only about 10% of the calculated potential need.
Available government data also indicate that only about 70% of clinicians' orders for blood are presently
met by blood banks. And when the need for blood transfusions is met, about 0.4% of these transfusions
cause some complications.
In order for the population in the project sites to increase their benefits from safe blood transfusions, it will
be necessary to increase the supply of safe blood transfusion services in the hospitals of the four regions.
The three most important economic issues in pursuing this objective are:
(a) What is the most cost-effective way to increase the total quantity of safe blood available to hospitals?
(b) Given the answer to the first question, what level of increase in quantity of safe blood is economically
justifiable?
(c) Given the answer to the second question, what level of investment and recurrent cost expenditure is
economically justifiable?
C. Selecting the most cost-effective investment approach to increasing the supply of safe blood in the
project sites
One obvious scenario for increasing the supply of safe blood at the project sites is to expand the output of
the 180 blood banks depending on the actual demand of the corresponding hospitals. This scenario involves
the decentralized expansion of output. This has the advantage of expanding the blood services output at the
points closest to where such output would be utilized.
The major disadvantage of this scenario is that the aggregate investment costs necessary to assure the
- 47 -



safety of the expanded output of many blood banks would be too high relative to the increase in output.
This is due to certain lumpy fixed costs associated with building a voluntary donation program and
adopting blood laboratory controls. For example, a voluntary donation program would entail similar
investment costs to recruit as few as 1,000 regular donors or as many as 100,000 donors. Or, blood
laboratory quality assurance requirements would require similar investment costs for processing as few as
1,000 blood units per year or as many as 100,000 units a year. To assure the safety of blood services each
blood bank will need to have at least a voluntary blood donation program as well as a laboratory quality
assurance program. A decentralized expansion of output could thus entail investment costs that on
aggregate will cost much more than one where output is expanded only in selected blood banks.
Maximizing the benefits of large up-front investments to improve blood safety can be met by expanding
only the output in those blood centers with the greatest potential of producing and utilizing the highest
volume of safe blood services. This ensures that the investment expenditures necessary to meet basic
standards of blood safety are spread over a higher quantity of blood units produced and used. Thus the
project design aims to expand the output only in four strategically located blood banks with the highest
current output and the greatest existing technical capacity. In order to fully utilize the increased output of
these selected blood banks, however, it will be necessary to distribute their safe blood output beyond their
respective base hospital; hence the need for them to operate as regional blood transfusion centers. Once
these centers begin to fully perform their function of serving all hospitals in their regions, further
investments in expanding blood banks in these hospitals can be cut back and saved.
D. Determining the target levels of increased output
By the end of the project, the four regional blood transfusion centers will undertake the blood collection,
testing and processing being done at 180 hospital blood banks in the 21 provinces and turn the former
hospital blood banks into blood storage and cross-matching facilities for clinical transfusion. The total
output of the four centers would be about 300,000 units per year. This level is half of the total potential
need for blood calculated according to WHO indicators.
It is assumed that over time patients in need of blood will increasingly be able to get to hospitals and, in
tum, patient management capabilities in hospitals will improve, including the optimum use of safe blood
transfusions. This assumption requires a general improvement in patients' access to hospitals and
hospitals' capacities to diagnose and treat, which is arguably consistent with current trends in Vietnam.
However, conditions might not improve enough over the five-year period of the project for hospitals to
effectively use the full estimated need for blood of the population. This would mean that the
hospital-generated need for blood might be much less than the 600,000 units a year that was calculated for
the population.
While the project investment costs assume an end-of-project capacity for all the four regional centers at
around 300,000 units per year, there are built-in provisions for cutting back on output expansion or
increasing output beyond the base targets in the event that actual demand for blood transfusion grows much
slower or much faster than projected. The important point, however, is that an investment approach that
expands the blood centers' output to about half the estimated potential need is probably consistent with
ensuring that the expanded output of safe blood is fully and appropriately used in patient care.
E. Determining economically justifiable levels of investments for the increased output
Over the five year period of the project, the four regional centers would have produced a total of 900,000
blood units even as their aggregate medium-term production capacity would have increased from about
-48 -



60,000 units per year to 300,000 units per year. What is the aggregate level of investments that makes
economic sense in this context?
The investments will essentially yield two outputs, namely,: (a) a quantity of safe blood packs effectively
used to save lives and enhance public confidence; (b) a permanent capacity to continue producing safe
blood packs to save lives and enhance public confidence well into the future. Different levels of investments
may be calculated for producing the same scale of output at different degrees of safety. It is assumed that
the investment costs to attain different desired levels of blood safety would vary. What level of investment
costs can be justified for attaining capacity to produce the projected levels of output for safe blood?
The project cost estimates indicate that the investment expenditures are divided almost equally between
items with longer term productive value (e.g., civil works, equipment, vehicles, training, technical
assistance, public education) versus items with only current productive value (e.g., reagents and medical
supplies, contracted services, consumables). Assuming this pattern of costs, one can assign half of each
level of aggregate investments to the production of current output and the other half to the production of
permanent capacity. This can be illustrated as follows:
Aggregate Level of Investment in 4 Centers
$30 M               $50 M              $70 M               $100 M
Investment in      15 M                25 M               35 M                50 M
current output
(900,000 units for 5
years)
Investment in future  15 M             25 M               35 M                50 M
capacity (300,000
units per year by
fifth yr)
Ave. cost per unit of  $16.67          $27.78             $38.89              $55.56
current output
Ave. cost per unit of  $50.00          $83.33             $116.70             $166.67
continued output
Based on an estimate of US$ 10 per unit of blood for direct consumables, it is projected that the total
production unit cost of such a technically specified output as a unit of blood would reach up to 3-6 times
direct costs, or between $30 to $60. Compared to these estimates, a unit cost of $16.67 may be inadequate
for the current output as total production costs for a highly technical output like safe blood generally range
between 3-6 times direct costs. This would argue for an aggregate investment level of above $30 million
(between $70 to 100 million).
An average unit cost of US$50 per unit of additional output seems extremely low, just within the range of
the projected $30-60 total unit costs of current output, considering the level of additional inputs to bring up
current operations to the standards required for blood safety. This would argue for an aggregate investment
level of at least between $30-50 million.
- 49 -



If the total investment costs were simply loaded on the 900,000 units of blood that the project will produce
over 5 years, the different levels of investments imply the following unit costs: $33.33 (for $30 million);
$55.56 (for $50 million); $77.78 (for $70 million); $111.12 (for $100 million). The table below shows the
cost per life saved if each transfusion saved one life every two transfusion; one life every three transfusion;
one life every five transfusions; one life every ten transfusions; and one life every twenty transfusions.
1 in 2       1 in 3        1 in 5       1 in 10      1 in 20
$33.33/unit         66.66        99.99         166.65       333.30       666.00
$55.56/unit         111.12        166.68       277.80       555.60       1,111.20
$77.78/unit         155.56       233.34        388.90       777.80       1,555.60
$111.12/unit        222.24       333.36        555.60       1,111.20     2,222.40
Even on the conservative assumption that all the project costs would be expended only on the current
output of safe blood units (which means that any remaining future capacity for producing safe blood is
fully discounted), the average cost of a life saved under the assumption of a $100 million investment cost
and twenty transfusions can save only one life, comes up to only slightly more than $2,200.
The above analysis indicates that a $30 million investment level may not be sufficient to attain the levels of
desired output and capacity with adequate safety. An investment level of $100 million may be on the high
end but would still be justified in terms of average cost per life saved.
-50 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Years Ending
. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   r .
Year T     Year 2         1.Year 3  Year 4 0  Year 5  Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.55       7.42       9.92      11.37       8.42      4.90       2.84
Recurrent Costs            0.05        0.08      0.08       0.08       0.08       0.08      0.08
Total Project Costs          2.60       7.50       10.0       11.0        8.5      4.98       2.92
Total Financing              2.60       7.50       10.0       11.0        8.5       4.98      2.92
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   2.0         6.0        8.0       9.0        7.0      4.00       2.20
Government                0.60        1.50        2.0       2.0        1.5      0.98       0.72
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.00        0.00       00.0      00.0        0.0      0.00       0.00
Total Project Financing     2.60       7.50       10.0       11.0        8.5      4.98       2.92
A. Current System of Financing Blood Services
Wherever blood transfusion services are available in any hospital in Vietnam, it is usually provided by the
hospital's own blood bank. These hospital-based blood banks collect, test, process, store and transfuse
blood. They usually maintain stocks of pre-tested and properly stored blood packs and issue the available
supply whenever clinicians order a transfusion for a patient. Most of the blood still comes from donors who
are recruited and repeatedly donate blood for a fee. Most blood units issued are properly tested and
matched.
Most hospitals in Vietnam are public hospitals. The costs of operating hospital-based blood banks are
financed by two main sources. The fixed costs of blood services (i.e., staff, utilities, equipment, building)
are covered by allocations from the hospital's government expenditure budget. Most of the variable
operating costs of blood services (i.e., payments for blood donors, blood bags, test kits, reagents, and blood
transfusion consumables) are covered by payments of patients. Revenues from the sale of blood to patients
is an important source of funding for blood services. Most patients pay for blood transfused to them,
although some of the poorest patients may be given blood without being charged (with hospitals absorbing
the corresponding costs in their government budgets).
- 51 -



Public hospitals in Vietnam at present derive about half of the funds for their total operations from
budgetary funding of government revenues. The other half comes from revenues from patient or insurance
payments.
According to the National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion at Bach Mai Hospital in Hanoi,
the current average direct cost per unit of blood is about VND 325,000 broken down into VND 150,000 as
a fee to paid donors and VND 175,000 as variable costs (reagents, blood bags, testing kits). This estimated
direct cost does not include any of the costs that are supposed to be covered by the state budget.
The officially set ceiling charge per unit of blood is VND 225,000. This rate is the highest that can be
charged to any patient and this is also the amount reimbursed by the Vietnam Health Insurance program for
blood given to its covered beneficiaries. Even for the patient paying the highest official rate, the hospital
does not recover VND 100,000 of the direct costs per unit of blood transfused (325,000 direct cost minus
225,000 highest charge). This portion of direct costs that is not recovered is covered by the same
government budget that funds the fixed costs of the blood transfusion service.
B. The Financial Costs of Producing Safe Blood Services in the Project
From a financial perspective, the project finances a five-year slice of the total operations of four regional
blood centers. At present, the government operates existing blood centers in the four project sites. The
current technical quality and existing quantities of output of these blood centers, however, are very low
relative to the levels required for meeting the project objectives. In the five years of the project, all the sites
have to upgrade their operations to much higher standards of blood safety. Two sites (Hanoi and Ho Chi
Minh City) also need to raise their output volumes five times greater than the present and the other two
sites (Hue and Can Tho) need to increase almost ten times compared to their present levels.
The financial costs to be absorbed by the project cover both the investment costs for upgrading these four
centers in terms of increased production capacity at higher standards of safety as well as the total recurrent
costs to be incurred by these centers in operating at the expected levels of output during the five-year period
of the project life. From the perspective of the Bank's financing policies, the total recurrent costs for five
years are treated as incremental recurrent costs generated by the project investment.
Including all expenditures to be incurred by the four regional centers to upgrade their operations and to
produce safe blood services for five years as part of the project simplifies the full and proper estimation of
the financial costs to attain the project objectives. The approach also facilitates transparent recognition of
the total recurrent costs that are going to be incurred if safe blood services are to be sustained after the
project life. This will then prepare the ground for a clear decision on how the future costs of producing safe
blood services would be financed after the project.
To enable the project to determine the specific boundaries covered by the project costs, each of the four
centers was clearly defined and delineated by the government as distinct separate legal, organizational and
financial entities. For each regional blood transfusion center, the project costs were estimated to include all
financial costs necessary to increase capacity to produce safe blood at the regional blood transfusion center,
as well as the costs of producing safe blood services at the target quantities for the entire life of the project.
The financial cost estimates for each regional blood center were based on identification of specific items of
expenditures required for each activity, estimated quantities of each item needed during each project year,
and reasonable unit costs for these items of expenditures. The costs for each regional center consists of:
- 52 -



(a) Investment costs: civil works, equipment, vehicles, consultant services, training, public
education, and other inputs, which are expected to yield services and benefits for a number of
years after the expenses have been incurred.
(b) Incremental recurrent costs for the first five years: staff salaries, consumables, reagents,
supplies, utilities, fuel, and other inputs which are expected to be consumed within one year
and for which future expense would be required to continue delivering or using the services.
The total operating costs for running each center were included in the estimates. The only
exclusion was the costs for paying paid donors, which was not included in the project.
Following the Bank's financing policies, government counterpart financing for the project costs is being
provided to cover:
(a) the portion of investment costs representing estimated taxes and duties
(b) the portion of recurrent costs that the Bank does not finance (specifically salaries of regular
staff)
(c) an increasing share of the incremental recurrent costs so that by the fifth year of the project
total operating costs of the centers are substantially financed by the government.
While the sources of funding for its counterpart is a matter that is properly the exclusive concern of the
government, the project sought to understand how counterpart shares will actually be financed in order to:
(a) assess the risks to the future availability of counterpart funding during project life and (b) determine
how counterpart financing during project life might shift to regular financing of future operations beyond
the project life.
Based on current practices in Vietnam, the total government counterpart share of project costs might be
financed by a combination of the following:
(a) the portion of the investment costs representing taxes and duties and some share of incremental
recurrent costs might be included in the investment budget under the management of Ministry
of Planning and Investment
(b) the recurrent costs not financed by the Bank such as salaries of regular staff could be included
in the recurrent expenditure budget of the government under the management of Ministry of
Finance
(c) the portion of the incremental recurrent costs representing items like contracted staff, operating
costs like utilities, consumables, supplies and materials could be paid for by financial
contributions of hospitals whose blood needs are going to be served by the center. The
hospitais, in turn, might pay for their financial contributions to the blood center through
allocations from their budget or from general patient revenues.
The actual mix in sources of financing for the government counterpart can be flexible during the project
life. In order to prepare for the eventual shift of financing burden from the project to regular sources at the
end of the project, however, it will be important to understand how the government intends to cover the
eventual costs of operating these centers.
- 53 -



C. Prospective Financing Effects of the Project
The project is expected to create the following key financial effects:
I .    The financial costs for producing safe blood services will be increasingly concentrated in a few
regional blood transfusion centers that will serve many hospitals in the region. Meanwhile, the operating
costs of hospital-based blood facilities will contract as these become storage and cross-matching facilities
for safe blood packs supplied from the regional blood centers. As the regional centers' blood service
operations will have been previously delineated from the general operations of hospitals that they serve,
these regional blood centers' operating costs will also be more easily accounted separately from other costs
of hospital activities. It will thus be easier for the regional blood centers to develop an "arm's length"
financial accounting relationship with the hospitals that they serve as the full costs of blood transfusion
center operations emerge separately from the costs of the rest of other hospital operations.
2.     The unit costs for the safe blood services produced by the regional blood transfusion centers will be
higher than the current costs of hospital-based blood banks. This is because the overall technical quality of
safe blood services from the regional blood transfusion centers will be significantly upgraded. Their source
of blood supply will move as rapidly as possible towards exclusive reliance on regular voluntary unpaid
donation. It is not yet clear if this development will reduce the cost of donation compared to the $10 per
blood unit currently given to paid donors. Voluntary unpaid blood donation will also entail other costs such
as education, counseling, recruitment, communications, motivation, and others which may be higher or
lower than the per blood unit payment to paid donors. More important to increasing the future costs of safe
blood is the routine application by the regional blood transfusion centers of international standards of
quality assurance in the blood laboratory services.
3.     The total quantity of safe blood supply from these regional blood transfusion centers is also
expected to increase significantly in response to current unmet need and to increased clinical demand for
transfusions. The need for more safe blood is clear. The clinical demand for safe blood is also going to
increase. The capacity of the regional blood centers to produce safe blood service will also increase.
Hospitals are likely to increase their clinical use of the increased supply of safe blood services made
available by the regional blood transfusion centers.
These three changes, namely, the shifting of the burden of financial costs of producing blood services away
from hospitals towards their concentration on regional blood transfusion centers; the increase in unit costs
to produce blood services at higher standards of safety; and the increase in total quantity of output
produced by the regional centers and used by hospitals, will rapidly increase the total costs for operating
the regional blood centers.
The temptation will be strong to finance the operations of the regional blood transfusion centers largely
through the sale of blood to patients. It might be more difficult for the blood services to explicitly link
patient payments for sale of blood if the prevailing understanding is that blood is donated voluntarily by
unpaid donors. Donors might resist voluntarily donating without being paid if they observe blood being
directly sold. Patients might resist payment if they understand that the blood they obtain was voluntarily
given by donors who were not paid.
D. Sub-Component on Developing Future Policies on Financing of Blood Services
It is therefore clear that future policies on the financing of the operations of regional blood transfusion
centers will be a major issue concerning financial sustainability. For this reason, the project includes a
- 54 -



specific sub-component in the national support and capability component to address this issue.
The financing of blood services in the future will need to confront two critical issues:
(a) how to fully cover the operating costs of the regional blood transfusion centers
(b) how to eliminate the explicit payment by patients for blood transfused to them.
Potential solutions could involve the following:
(a) Adopting transparent procedures and standards for planning, projecting, accounting and
reporting the total annual operating costs of the regional blood centers
(b) Negotiating a fair scheme for charging hospitals being served by these regional blood
transfusion centers so that the total costs of the centers are fully covered
(c) Developing an efficient and equitable mechanism by which hospitals pay their allocated share
of the blood centers' operating costs from their regular budget as well as from their general
revenues from their operations
(d) Evolving a mechanism for eliminating the direct payment by patients for blood transfused to
them, which also allows sufficient means for hospitals to generate enough compensatory
patient revenues to cover their share of the blood centers' costs
(e) Making sure that the implementation of policies and mechanisms for financing do not lead to
incentives for misuse, over-use or under-use of blood by clinicians and also do not reduce
access to blood by any patient in need of transfusion
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Procurement
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and Le2al Framework
A draft CPAR was conducted in late 1998 by IDA in association with the Government but has not been
finalized. An action plan has still to be agreed upon with the Government of Vietnam. The conclusions of
the draft CPAR are generally positive. In the past ten years, the government has made great progress in the
development of a comprehensive Vietnamese legal system, both in substantive and procedural laws.
However, there is as yet no law on public procurement in the country. The government is still in the process
of establishing a comprehensive legal framework to govern public procurement.
The main weaknesses highlighted in the draft CPAR are: (i) inadequate capacity and capability in the
country, for which the main constraint is recruitment of qualified staff and training; (ii) lack of delegation
of authority for approval of procurement actions and decisions; (iii) general perceptions of corruption; and
(iv) an urgent need to deepen public sector reforms. The draft CPAR recommends a series of actions to
overcome these institutional and system weaknesses, which will further improve the procurement
environment and enhance the transparency and accountability of procurement actions and decisions.
Procurement Responsibilitv
The project will be implemented and managed using the structure outlined in Sections C.4 and E.4 of the
main text of the PAD. MOH will be the executive agency with a Vice-Minister as the Project Steering
Committee Director (see Project Organizational Chart in Annex 12). He will be assisted in day-to-day
project administration by a national-level PMU based at the National Institute of Hematology and Blood
Transfusion (NIHBT), with three regional-level PMUs (RPMUs) based at two central hospitals and a
provincial health bureau. Most procurement (i.e., all ICBs for goods and international shopping and hiring
of international consultants) will be handled by the PMU thereby reducing the procurement burden on the
weaker capacity RPMUs. The RPMUs will procure works for their regional civil works and small
quantities of goods like reagents, kits and consumables using NCB and national shopping procedures. They
will also hire local consultants, organize local training and handle operational activities of their respective
Regional Safe Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTCs).
The PMU will consist of a director, a deputy director, a procurement officer, a finance officer, and a
monitoring and coordination officer. The three RPMUs at the Hue, HCMC and Can Tho RBTCs will have
the same number of staff except that Hue and HCMC would not have the deputy director. The PMU will
plan and coordinate the overall annual procurement plan after consolidating the respective annual
procurement plans of the three RPMUs. An annual procurement plan acceptable to IDA will be submitted
at the same time as the project annual work program.
Capacity Assessment of Imiplementation Agencies
An assessment of the procurement capacity of the implementation team under the MOH was conducted by
a procurement-accredited task team member, who has extensive experience in procurement for human
development projects. The overall risk associated with this project is rated as average. Procurement
capacity is available at the MOH and a generally satisfactory record in implementing procurement has been
- 56 -



demonstrated. While weaknesses such as those identified in the CPAR remain, the Government has agreed
to adopt specific pre-emptive and capacity building measures before and soon after credit effectiveness.
The prior review threshold has been set based on a risk assessment rating of average and is in line with
present practices for IDA-financed projects in Vietnam. Moreover, the MOH has appointed some of its
procurement staff trained and experienced in IDA-financed projects to serve as resource persons in the
training and mentoring of procurement officers of the PMU and RPMUs before and during project
implementation. To further ensure that essential procurement capacity is present at the PMU and RPMUs
at project inception, the hiring of a procurement consultant for an appropriate duration during the first two
years of project implementation has also been agreed upon with the Government.
The MOH's overall procurement performance is satisfactory although it has exhibited some of the problems
which echo the findings of the draft CPAR. These problems were discussed with the Government and
appropriate measures to reduce or prevent these weaknesses were agreed upon at appraisal, among which
the most important are:
(a) The insufficient number of qualified staff familiar with the proper and routine application of IDA
Procurement Guidelines was acknowledged by the Government. A project staffing and procurement
training plan, including the requisite number of procurement officers in the PMU and RPMUs, will be
agreed upon and included in the final Project Implementation Plan.
(b) The matter of eligibility of state-owned enterprises to participate in IDA-financed procurement was
discussed with the Government according to the findings and agreed actions of the November 5-8, 2000
IDA mission on state-owned enterprises in Vietnam. IThe applicability of paragraph 1.8 (c) of the IDA
Procurement Guidelines for Goods and Works and paragraph 1.10 (c) of the Guidelines for Selection of
Consultants was emphasized. State owned enterprises under the direct supervisory authority of the MOH
shall be excluded from any bids for civil works, goods or services under the project. Dependent SOEs of
the MOH are allowed to be sub-consultants for contracts under the project provided that no more than 20%
of the contracted value is subcontracted to those SOEs for proposals invited before January 1, 2003.
Non-dependent SOEs will be allowed to participate in IDA-financed projects only if they are legally and
financially autonomous and operating under commercial law as stated in the Gufdelines and Consultant
Guidelines.
(c) IDA had already raised with the Government certain NCB procurement regulations in Vietnam that are
inconsistent with IDA's procurement policy and procedures. The Government has agreed that the
procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in its Decree No.88/CP
dated September 4, 1999, as amended and supplemented by Decree No. 14/CP dated May 5, 2000 with the
necessary detailed clarifications required to comply with the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits.
Procurement Action Plan including Capacitv Building
An action plan was discussed and agreed with the government during appraisal and negotiations as
outlined below:
57 -



Action:                             Time-Frame:           Carried Out By:
By Appraisal
Conduct basic procurement workshops  At pre-appraisal and  Procurement Accredited
appraisal (completed)  Operations Officer of the
IDA Task Team
After Appraisal
Attend ILO Procurement Training or  Before December 2002  2 PMU staff including
similar procurement training in the                       the national procurement
region                                                    officer
Conduct NCB goods and civil works   Before the first NCB  IDA Field Procurement
procurement procedures workshops for  (model SBD for NCB  Officers
PMU and RPMUs                       prepared by Resident
Mission Hanoi will be
used)
By Neeotiations
Appoint procurement staff of        Appointed by          MOH
PMU/RPMUs                           Negotiations
Appoint experienced MOH             Same as above         MOH
procurement staff as resource
person(s) to PMU/RPMU
Agree on TOR for procurement        3/31/02               MOH and PMU
advisor consultant
Issue intemal administrative        3/31/02               MOH, PMU and RPMUs
procedures for PMU and RPMUs
including procurement process
Agree on local procurement training  3/31/02              MOH
plan of PMU and RPMU staff
Finalize detailed first year        3/31/02                MOH, PMU and RPMUs
procurement plan including draft BDs
After Effectiveness
Sign contract with Procurement      After effectiveness but  Project Director or PMU
Advisor Consultant with agreed TOR  before the first ICB   Manager
- 58 -



Conduct Project Launch Workshops    In parallel with      IDA Task Team and
with orientation on procurement and  effectiveness, but   Field Procurement and
disbursement procedures in the DCA  before the first QCBS  FMS Officers
and disbursement letter, including the  or LCS hiring
hiring of consultants
Review procurement decisions and    At least every 6 months  II)A Task Team and/or
procedures during Supervision                             Field Procurement
Missions                                                  Officers
Conduct consultations including post  As frequently as needed  IDA Field Procurement
reviews for NCBs                                          Officers
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing will be made available for payment for eligible expenditures made after January 1,
2002 up to a maximum of US$248,000.
Procurement
All procurement financed by IDA will follow the IDA's guidelines as stipulated below:
Procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the IDA 's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). IDA's standard bidding documents (SBD) and
preference for domestic manufactured goods and domestic civil works contractors will apply in accordance
with the IDA Guidelines for international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement. Standard Bidding
Documents (SBDs) in the local language for national competitive bidding (NCB) procurement of civil
works and goods, acceptable to IDA, will be adopted.
Procurement of consultant services will follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by IDA Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). Procurement of consultant services will use the IDA Standard
Request for Proposal Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised April 1998 and July 1999 and
all consultant contracts will use IDA's standard Form of Contract for Consultant Services. Large-value
consultant contracts costing more than US$200,000 per contract will be advertised in both international
and national newspapers and in Development Business (UNDB). A general procurement notice was
published in UNDB at the end of August 2001.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works (US$8.73 million equivalent)
Civil works will be required for four new regional blood transfusion centers in the cities of Hanoi, Hue, Ho
Chi Minh and Can Tho. Two of the four RBTCs will build new facilities on land owned by existing
hospitals (Hue Central Hospital and Cho Ray Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City) and one on land owned by a
provincial government (Can Tho Province). Hanoi will build on a new site to be allocated to the MOTI by
- 59 -



the Hanoi Peoples' Committee. Due to the wide geographic spread of the different locations, the civil
works will be divided into at least four contracts ranging from US$50,000 to US$3,000,000. It is also
important that there be proper phasing and careful, coherent coordination between the renovation of
existing buildings and the construction of a new building. Unless this is done properly, there could be
disruptions in services.
Experience with IDA-financed projects in Vietnam indicates that contracts costing less than $1,400,000 are
unlikely to attract international contractors. This amount exceeds the current US$1 million per contract
threshold for NCB. On an exceptional basis, for contracts costing less than US$1,400,000 per contract for
this project, national competitive bidding will be allowed using SBDs, up to an aggregate amount of
US$4,360,000, acceptable to IDA, in the local language. For contracts costing greater than and equal to
US$1,400,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$4,370,000, ICB procedures will be
followed. IDA's SBD and domestic preference will apply in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for all ICB
procedures.
Goods (US$28.64 million equivalent {including medical consumables of US$11.52 million})
Goods procured for the project will include highly specialized blood processing and testing medical
equipment, proprietary reagents, kits and spare parts, bar code readers and specialized printers, furniture,
vehicles, computers and printers, photocopiers, facsimiles, projectors, telephones, microphone systems,
video players, cameras, televisions, printing materials, and medical consumables, e.g., forms, latex gloves,
bandages, blood bags, regular testing kits and reagents, etc. Packages will be grouped as much as possible
to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent and more each in order to promote competition, taking into consideration
the timing of the needed items, shelf life duration and the appropriateness of packaging items together.
Direct contracting procedures will be permnitted for procurement of proprietary blood testing and processing
reagents, kits and spare parts, which are linked to a particular brand of blood testing equipment, regardless
of the contract value, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,500,000.
Due to the wide geographic spread of the different locations of the four RBTCs and as each center facility
is on a different time schedule, it is not efficient for some of the off-the-shelf items such as television sets
and video players, office equipment as well as medical and office consumables to be packaged and bought
at the same time. Therefore, shopping will be allowed for these items. Due to the nature of the blood
transfusion centers, consumables will be bought by each center with different timing. Consumables consist
mainly of reagents and testing kits, medical consumables such as rubbing alcohol, bandages, beverages and
small souvenirs for blood donors, and office equipment including donor program promotion pamphlets.
For the goods other than the proprietary items mentioned above, when packaging is not appropriate and the
full requirement is valued at less than US$50,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate amount of
US$2,000,000, international shopping procedures will be used with comparison of three price quotations
from at least two countries, or national shopping procedures where the desired goods are ordinarily
available from more than one source in the country at competitive prices. Requests for price quotations
will indicate the description and quantity of the goods as well as the desired delivery time and place. Some
of the off-the-shelf standard items, such as office equipment, vehicles, information, education and
communication (IEC) equipment, which are permitted under the shopping procedures mentioned above,
may also be purchased directly through UN agencies, for example, IAPSO, UNICEF or WHO, as
appropriate.
Goods contracts valued less than US$100,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
- 60 -



US$3,200,000 will follow NCB procedures using agreed model SBD in the local language as mentioned
above. For goods contracts valued at greater than and equal to US$100,000 per contract and up to an
aggregate amount of US$17,580,000, ICB procedures will be followed. IDA's SBD and domestic
preference will apply in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for all ICB procedures.
Consultant Services (US$1.51 million equivalent)
Most of the consultants needed for the project will be individual consultants including part-time contracted
field workers for mass media voluntary donors campaigns, the PMU and three RPMU staff, technical
advice on voluntary donations programs, blood bank operations, clinical use of blood, and regional
planning and project implementation. Audit services, which will be disbursed under the incremental
operating costs, will use the least cost selection (LCS) method up to an aggregate amount of US$110,000.
A consultant firm for the international reference laboratory contract will be selected using the quality- and
cost-based selection (QCBS) method up to an aggregate amount of US$220,000. Both intemational and
national individual consultants as well as part-time contracted field workers will be needed for project
management, staff development programs and regional planning, monitoring and research programs, and
mass media voluntary donor campaigns up to an aggregate amount of US$1,180,000. Individual
consultants will be selected on the basis of consultant qualifications consistent with Section V of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Training (US$3.92 mitlion equivalent)
Implementation of annual training programs including TORs, selection of trainees, venues and participants
of overseas study tours and fellowships will be subject to IDA's prior approval. Four international study
tours to four different countries will be carried out during the first few years of the project implementation
period. Training funds will cover the above mentioned study tours, fellowships, local training, seminars
and workshops using government's administrative procedures acceptable to the IDA. Fellowships will be
selected based on the appropriateness of academic programs and universities both locally and overseas.
Fellows will be selected based on their qualifications and their job responsibilities. Annual training work
programs will be submitted for IDA's approval.
Incremental Operating Costs (US$3.51 million equivalent {excluding medical consumables of
US$11.52 million})
Incremental operating costs include travel and subsistence allowances for project management, supervision,
monitoring and evaluation, operations and maintenance, communication and utilities costs, costs for
campaigns to recruit voluntary blood donors such as refreshments and campaign souvenirs, office
consumables, project audit services and Special Account bank charges. All will be availed of in
accordance with government administrative procedures acceptable to the IDA. Contracts for consumables
and maintenance services are expected to be small in value (less than US$ 10,000). Incremental operating
costs will be handled by the national PMU as well as the three RPMUs located in each of the regional
blood transfusion centers.
For the purpose of project sustainability and to cushion the effects on the national budget of introducing
new and significantly increased blood bank operations, IDA will finance the incremental consumables
(listed under the goods paragraph) and operating costs on a declining basis over the 5 years, e.g., 95%, 90,
80%, 70%, 50%. The government will finance these costs of 5%, 10%, 20%, 30% and 50% accordingly.
- 61 -



Resettlement Costs (US$0.66 million equivalent)
Resettlement costs for Hanoi and Can Tho RBTCs consisting of compensation for land, loss of use of land,
access roads/paths, crops, fruit trees and incentives for relocation will be financed 100% by the
Govemment.
Incremental Staff Salaries (US$0.53 million equivalent)
All the staff for the project supporting voluntary donor programs and blood bank operations will be either
new recruits or retrained medical, technical and administrative staff. They will be hired and trained over
the course of 5 years duration. They will be permanent government staff and therefore will be financed
100% by the Govemment. A staff recruitment plan for the first year as well as the rest of the project
years will be agreed upon and included in the final PIP.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            4.37            4.36          0.00          0.00        8.73
(3.93)          (3.93)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (7.86)
2. Goods                            17.58           7.56          3.50          0.00       28.64
(12.87)          (6.72)       (2.66)        (0.00)     (22.25)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           1.51         0.00        1.51
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.51)       (0.00)      (1.51)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00          3.92          0.00        3.92
(0.00)          (0.00)        (3.92)       (0.00)      (3.92)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00          3.51          0.00        3.51
Costs                               (0.00)          (0.00)        (2.66)       (0.00)      (2.66)
6. Resettlement Costs and           0.00            0.00          0.00          1.19        1.19
Incremental Staff Salaries          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            21.95           11.92         12.44         1.19       47.50
(16.80)         (10.65)       (10.75)       (0.00)      (38.20)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, UN agencies' purchases,
direct contracting for proprietary items, training, consulting services, and incremental operating costs.
- 62 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS  QBS     SFB     LCS      co     Other  N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.22    0.00    0.00   0.11     0.00   0.00    0.00     0.33
(0.22)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.1 1)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.33)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00     1.18   0.00     1.18
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.18)  (0.00)  (1.18)
Total  0.22    0.00    0.00   0.11     0.00    1.18    0.00    1.51
(0.22)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0. 1 1)  (0.00)  (1.18)  (0.00)  (1.51)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 63 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil Works and Goods. Contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 per contract will be
subject to prior review. All other contracts below the prior review threshold will be subject to random post
review.
Consultant Services. Firm contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 per contract and
individual contracts valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 will be subject to prior review. All other
consultant contracts below the prior review threshold will be subject to random post review. In addition, all
single-source (SS) contracts, if any, and TORs will be subject to prior review regardless of value.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                  Less than $100,000            NCB
Greater than $100,000 and
Less than $1,400,000           NCB                     3.36
Greater than and equal to        ICB                     4.37
$1,400,000
2. Goods                   Less than $50,000    Intemational or national
shopping, UN agencies'
purchases, direct contracting
for proprietary items
NCB, Direct contracting for
Less than $100,000       proprietary items
ICB, Direct contracting for
Greater than and equal to  proprietary items            22.45
$100,000
3. Services
Firm                      Less than $100,000            LCS
Greater than and equal to       QCBS                     .22
$100,000
Individual              Greater than and equal to     Individual                 0.10
$50,000
All TORs and SS, if any,                                 1.18
regardless of value
4. Training             Annual training program         Other                    3.92
regardless of value
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  35.60
-64 -



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
One in six contracts will be reviewed by the post review procurement supervision missions.
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 65 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Credit of US$38.20 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of five years. The
project closing date is March 31, 2008. The allocation of Credit proceeds according to each expenditure
category is shown in Table C, and by each Special Account in Table C. 1. The estimated taxes and duties
are US$5.1 million, which will be financed by the Government.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million       Finanding t4reenta
Civil Works                                7.49                        90%
Goods                                     12.87          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
90% of other local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consumables                                7.36             through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Consultant Services                        1.52                        100%
Training                                   3.73                       100%
Incremental Operating Costs                2.52             through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Unallocated                                2.71
Total Project Costs                       38.20
Total                                     38.20
Table C.1: Allocation of Credit Proceeds by PMU and RPMUs
E'404d40ire Category   7             Amount in USSM0iIon       Financing PerReetage
PMU
Civil Works                                  3.03                     90%
Goods                                       11.34           100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of other
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consumables                                  5.65           through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
- 66 -



thereafter 50%
Consultant Services                            1.1                      100%
Training                                      1.71                      100%
Incremental Operating Costs                   0.80            through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Unallocated                                   .96
Total PMU                                    24.59
HUE RPMU
Civil Works                                   1.54                       90%
Goods                                         0.53            100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of other
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consumables                                   0.23            through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Consultant Services                           0.13                       100%
Training                                      0.73                       100%
Incremental Operating Costs                   0.66            through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Unallocated                                   0.54
Total HUE RPMU                                4.36
HCMC RPMU
Civil Works                                    1.3                       90%
Goods                                          0.5            100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of other
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consumables                                   0.95            through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Consultant Services                           0.16                       100%
Training                                      0.72                       100%
Incremental Operating Costs                   0.65             through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
- 67 -



through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Unallocated                                  0.67
Total HCMC RPMU                              4.95
CAN THO RPMU
Civil Works                                  1.62                      90%
Goods                                        0.5             100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 90% of other
local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consumables                                  0.51            through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Consultant Services                          0.13                      100%
Training                                     0.57                      100%
Incremental Operating Costs                  0.43            through December 2003 95%
through December 2004 90%
through December 2005 80%
through December 2006 70%
thereafter 50%
Unallocated                                  0.54
Total CAN THO RPMU                           4.30
Total Project Costs                         38.20
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement from the Credit will be supported by full documentation and signed contracts for: (i)
contracts valued greater than and equal to $ 100,000 per contract for both works and goods; (ii) firm
consultant contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 per contract; and (iii) individual
consultant contracts valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 per contract. Disbursernent for all other
expenditures including training and incremental operating costs will be disbursed against SOEs with
supporting documentation retained in the national PMU and the responsible four RPMUs, and will be made
available for IDA review upon request.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement of the Credit, the national PMU will open a Special Account (SA), and each of
the three RPMUs will open their own separate Special Accounts for the IDA Credit in commercial banks
specifically designed for the purpose of this project by the Borrower's Central Bank and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The SAs should include appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and
attachment. IDA's SAs, which would cover its share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement
categories, would have an authorized maximum allocation of US$1,000,000 for the PMU's SA and
US$250,000 for each of the RPMUs' SAs. The initial amount of US$500,000 will be withdrawn from the
Credit account and deposited into the PMU SA. The full US$ 1,000,000 allocation shall be withdrawn
- 68 -



when the amounts disbursed total US$8,000,000. The initial amount of US$125,000 will be withdrawn
from the Credit account and deposited into each of the RPMvUs' SAs. The full US$250,000 allocation
shall be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed for each of the RPMUs' SAs total US$900,000.
Applications to replenish the SAs, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted regularly
(preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when the amounts of withdrawals are equal to 50% of
each of the initial deposits. The SAs shall be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable by IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Financial Management
Assessment of the Country's Financial Management Environment
IDA recently conducted a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of Vietnam, which
provides a diagnosis of the country's financial management environment. The CFAA helps the
Government and IDA to, among others, assess and manage the risk that public funds may be used
for non-intended purposes and identify the key risks, capacity gaps and constraints to progress in
this area. An action plan to address the key findings of the CFAA has been agreed to by the
Government.
Among the key findings of the CFAA that are relevant to the financial management aspects of the
project are the following: (a) Reports from the public expenditure accounting system attempt to
capture too much detailed data and management reports for effective decision-making are not
widely used; b) As the requirements of public expenditure accounting are very comprehensive and
detailed, compliance with the requirements is challenging for all units particularly at lower levels;
and (c) As accounting staff focus on more easily accomplished requirements like mechanical
verification of payments and receipts, the regular and efficient monitoring of State budget
information for effective use of public funds at times is not carried out in a timely manner.
The CFAA also reports that "the current budget arrangement in Vietnam suffers from a lack of
transparency for achievement of objectives." The conclusion of the assessment is that there is a
certain degree of fiduciary risk in the use of public resources, although overall, the fiduciary risk for
this project is manageable for on-budget items considering the steps that are envisioned to be taken
under the financial management plan.
Financial Management Assessment of Implementing Agencies
A financial management assessment (FMA) of the implementing agencies was conducted by the
accounting firm of Grant Thornton Vietnam (report dated April 16, 2001). In order to assess the
adequacy of the project financial management system, the consultant report covered the following
areas: understanding the project and the country environment; examining prior experience; records
management; internal control; accounting; staffing; software; audit arrangements; and reporting.
The assessment was based on discussions with relevant PMU/RPMU personnel, review of relevant
documentation and review of the working and control environments.
The assessment found that the institutions that will host the PMU and RPMUs have the basic
framework to handle the accounting and disbursement aspects of the project. However, the
managers and staff of these institutions have limited experience in meeting IDA-financed project
management information needs. Weaknesses that need to be addressed are: 1) satisfactory staffing
- 69 -



of accounting and disbursement units; 2) development of project financial management system,
policies and disbursement procedures; 3) enhanced transparency of project progress through
improved reporting of financial information; and 4) satisfactory auditing arrangements.
The results of this assessment were discussed with the Government during appraisal. An action
plan, which is summarized below, was agreed upon. The plan addresses the institutional, skills,
financial management reporting, and audit requirements for the project.
In Section G above, one condition for credit effectiveness concems a demonstration of actions that,
if successfully undertaken, will meet the minimum requirements for financial management as set
forth in OP/BP 10/02.
Project Financial Management System
Project Organization and Staffing. The overall project management arrangements are described in
sections C.4 and E.4 of the PAD. The respective Financial Officers in the PMU/RPMU have
overall responsibility for managing the staff of the financial management system. The PMU
Finance Officer will prepare project financial accounts on a quarterly basis, including consolidation
of financial accounts from the RPMUs and integrating these reports into the quarterly progress
reports of the project.
FMS Manual. The project financial management system will be documented in the Financial
Management Systems (FMS) Manual to be developed and adopted by the Borrower prior to
effectiveness. The manual will be part of the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, which upon
IDA concurrence, will serve as the operational guide for the preparatory training and routine
practice of financial management and accounting staff of the PMU and RPMUs.
The FMS Manual will cover the following areas: (1) relevant law, regulations and agreements
affecting project financial management; (2) banking and receipt procedures; (3) accounting system;
(4) internal control; (5) budgeting; (6) disbursement; (7) procurement; (8) staff and training; (9)
project reporting; (10) evaluation and monitoring; and (I1) auditing. The accounting system shall
enable project financial accounts to be prepared and presented in accordance with Vietnam
Accounting Standards. Separate books and records of transactions shall be maintained for the
project based on a Chart of Accounts to be adopted that captures expenditure data by project
components and expenditure categories. Measures for adequate internal control shall be provided
including procedures for cash control, segregation of duties among qualified staff, security of
documents and fixed assets, and periodic independent evaluation of internal controls.
Financial Reporting. An appropriate financial management system will be developed prior to
effectiveness to be able to produce, at the minimum, the following quarterly Project Monitoring
Reports: (i) Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii) Use of Funds by Project Activities; (iii) Procurement
Report on Selection of Goods, Works and Consultants; an (iv) Contract Management Report for
Goods, Works and Consultants. An appropriate financial management software capable of
producing these reports in accordance with IDA requirements will be operational by the date of
effectiveness. Financial statements will be submitted to the IDA on a quarterly basis.
Audit Arrangements
An independent accounting firm will be selected using a competitive process under the least-cost
- 70 -



selection method from a list of qualified firms maintained by the IDA. The independent auditors
will be appointed as soon as project funds are disbursed. A standard terms-of-reference will be
used to require the auditor to opine under international auditing standards on the project financial
statements (including an SOE statement) and a Statement of the Special Accounts. Audit costs will
be financed under the project. The financial statements will be audited and presented to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Action Plan on Financial Management Systems
At appraisal, the Government agreed on the following specific actions necessary to meet project
requirements for financial management systems at project inception:
Actions                     Responsibility                 Agreed Date
PMU Organization and Staffing
1. Appoint all qualified financial         MOH                         Negotiations
management staff at the national
level PMU and similarly qualified
staff for each of the three RPMU,
including the respective Finance
Officer, with qualifications
acceptable to IDA.
2. Submit staffing plan to hire and         MOH                        Negotiations
train additional financial
management support staff required
by the project.
3. Official assignment of at least         MOH                         Negotiations
one trained financial management
staff from the MOH with
experience in IDA-financed project
to provide advice and act as a
resource person to newly appointed
FMS staff at PMU and RPMU for
a period of at least one year from
July 2001.
4. Complete financial management        PMU; RPMU                      Effectiveness
training in accordance with staffing
plan agreed at negotiations.
Financial Management Manual
1. Appoint a team to prepare the      MON/Consultants                  Negotiations
FMS Manual, with assistance of
consultant to be contracted
according to TOR acceptable to
IDA.
2. Submit workplan of team                 MOH                         Negotiations
responsible for preparing FMS
Manual and for putting an FMS
Manual, acceptable to IDA, in
- 71 -



place by Credit effectiveness.
3. Complete and adopt FMS                  PMU                        Effectiveness
Manual acceptable to IDA (draft to
be submitted to IDA by November
30, 2001).
Project Financial Management
and Reporting System
1. Procure safe physical facilities        PMU                          09/30/02
for records, documents and high
value assets.
2. Complete establishment of a        PMU/Consultants                 Effectiveness
computerized financial management
system, including relevant training,
to enable generation of PMRs
acceptable to IDA.
3. Submit quarterly Project                PMU                          02/15/03
Management Reports acceptable to
IDA.
Audit Arrangements
1. Appoint project auditor with            PMU                          12/15/02
TOR acceptable to IDA.
2. Conduct first evaluation of FMS         PMU                          03/15/03
staffing, organization and intemal
controls.
3. Submit audit of project accounts   Project Auditors            After each project year
by no later than six months after the
close of the financial year.
- 72 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  ___
First Bank mission (identification)             01/06/1998                  01/06/1998
Appraisal mission departure                     05/27/2001                  05/27/2001
Negotiations                                    07/16/2001                  02/26/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/07/2002                  09/30/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health. Note: Initial preparation of the project began in early 1998. However, the project was
put on hold for several years as it was agreed with the Government that it would be folded in as a
component of a larger (APL) hospital sector project (Health Care for the Poor) that the Government and
the Bank were preparing. In early 2001, the Government urged that the project be separated out once again
as a stand-alone project and be finalized quickly in light of the Government's growing concern about the
health system's capacity to ensure adequate and safe blood supplies.
Preparation assistance:
Government-executed PHRD Grant of US$ 224,130
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
L. Richard Meyers                 Senior Operations Officer (Task Team Leader)
Carol H. L. Chen Ball             Procurement Accredited Operations Officer
Nguyen Thi Mai                    Operations Officer
Behdad M.H. Nowroozi              Sr. Financial Management
Specialist
Omowunmi Ladipo                   Sr. Financial Management
Specialist
Hung Kim Phung                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Le Viet Hung                      Finance Management Officer
Nguyen Hoi-Chan                   Senior Counsel
Rosario Aristorenas               Program Assistant
Nguyen Hoai Linh                  Team Assistant
Nguyen Quynh Nga                  Team Assistant
Mariam Claeson                    Lead Public Health Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Salim J. Habayeb                  Lead Public Health Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
International Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                 Specialty
Mario Taguiwalo               Health Economist/Management Specialist
Brian McClelland               Blood Transfusion Specialist
- 73 -



Jean Emmanuel (WHO)             Head, WHO Blood Safety Unit
Erica Wood (WHO)                Blood Transfusion Specialist
David Deleacy (WHO)             Blood Transfusion Specialist
Eve Lackritz (CDC)              Blood Safety Specialist
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Ministry of Health (2001). Project Implementation Plan. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project.
Hanoi.
Ministry of Health (2001). Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. Project Cost Tables (Costabs).
Hanoi.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Growing Healthy: A Review of Vietnam's Health Sector (2001). Produced by the World Bank, Sida,
AusAid, and the Royal Netherlands Embassy, Hanoi, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. Hanoi.
World Bank (May 2001). Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project: Procurement Assessment
Documents.
World Bank (2000). Vietnam: A Progress Report on the Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank
Group--1999-2002. Hanoi.
C. Other
C. Gerard, et. al, (eds.) (1995). Safe blood in developing countries: Principles and organization.
Luxembourg: European Commission.
Grant Thorton International--Vietnam (2001). Safe Blood Project: Financial Management Review.
Hanoi.
Ministry of Health (1999). Baseline Survey on Blood Transfusion. Health Strategy and Policy Institute.
Hanoi.
Ministry of Health (2000). Health Statistics Yearbook 1999. Health Statistics and Informatics Division.
Hanoi.
Ministry of Health (2000). Plan ofAction for People's Health Care and Protection in 2001-2005. Hanoi.
Ministry of Health (2001). Blood Transfusion Safety Program. Hanoi.
Ministry of Health (2001). StrategyforPeople's Health Care During 2001-2010. Hanoi.
WHO (1998). Developing a National Policy and Guidelines on the Clinical Use of Blood:
Recommendations. Blood Safety Unit. Geneva.
WHO (2001). The Clinical Use of Blood: Handbook. Geneva.
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
01-Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                          Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P051838        2002 VN-PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT                     0.00     19.84                            0.00      19.79      0.00      0.00
P059936        2002 Northen Mountains Poverty Reduction               0.00     110.00                            0.00     111.43      0.00      000
P004850        2001 VIETNAM - POVERTY REDUC.SUPPORT CREDIT            0.00     250.00                            0.00    149.66      -0.64      0 00
P042927        2001 VN-MekongTransport/Flood Protection               0.00     110.00                            0.00    10341       19.72      000
P062148        2001 COMMUNITY BASED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE              0.00     102.78                            0.00    103.82       0.00      0 00
P052037        2001 VN-HCMC ENVMTL SANIT.                             0.00     166.34                            0.00    161.30       2.00      0.00
P059864        2000 VN-RuralTransport l                               0.00     103.90                            0.00     81.35      24.12      0.00
P042568        2000 COASTAL Web/Prot Dev                              0.00      31.80                            0.00     27.73      11.12      0.00
P056452        2000 RURAL ENERGY                                      0.00     150.00                            0.00     130.19     80.55      0.00
P004845        1999 MEKONG DELTA WATER                                 0.00    101.80                            0.00      87.41     49.12       000
P051553        1999 VN-3 CITIES SANITATION PROJECT                    0.00      80.50                            0.00     70.84      13.37      000
P004B28        1999 VN-HIGHER EDUC.                                    0.00     83.30                            0.00      67.63     29.80       0 00
P004833        1999 VN-Urban Transport Improvement                    0.00      42.70                            0.00     33.76      32.16      000
P004839        1998 FOREST PROT.& RULDE                                0.00     21.50                            0.00      17.54     10.87       0.37
P045628        1998 TRANSMISSION & DISTR                               0.00    199.00                            0.00     156.04    162.94      91.88
P004843        1998 VN-Inland Waterways                               0.00      73.00                            0.00     56.62      44.22      -1 74
P004844        1998 AGRI DIVERSIFICATION                               0.00     66.90                            0.00      41.35      8.92      -5.44
P004830        1997 VN-WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                           0.00      98.61                           26.85      32.05     61.12       3.23
P004842        1997 VN-Hwy Rehab II                                   0.00     195.60                            0.00      56.88     74.97       0.00
P004838        1996 VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT                        0.00     101.20                            0.00      49.07     53.90       0.00
P036042        1996 BANKING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION                      0.00      49.00                            0.00     29.21      36.77      33.12
P004841        1996 VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH                     0.00      50.00                            0.00      15.00     14.21      0.00
P004834        1995 IRRIGATION REHABILIT                              0.00     100.00                            0.00     22.32      29.86      -4.90
P004835        1994 VN-PRIMARY EDUCATION                               0.00     70.00                            0.00      5.20       7.96       6.81
Total:        0.00    2377.77                           26.85    1629.56     767.07    123.34
- 76 -



VIETNAM
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
2002               F-V Hospital                  8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Kyoei Steel                   8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               MFL Vinh Phat                 0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               Mom.Star Cement              22.60    0.00    0.00   44.94   22.60    0.00    0.00   44.94
1997               NATL                         20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1995/97            Nghi Son Cement              20.18    0.00    0.00   16.42   20.18    0.00    0.00   16.42
1996               SMH Glass Co.                 7.78    0.00    0.00    2.25    7.78    0.00    0.00    2.25
1996               VILC                          0.00    0.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.75    0.00    0.00
1996               Vimaflour                     3.08    0.00    0.00    0.54    3.08    0.00    0.00    0.54
Total Portfolio:       90.51     0.75    0.00   84.15    82.36   0.75     0.00   84.15
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
1998              BA RIA                          24.20      0.00     4.00     49.00
2002              Dragon Capital                   0.00      2.00      0.00     0.00
2002              F-V Hospital                     1.50      0.50      0.00     0.00
2000              Interflour                        8.00     0.00      0.00     5.00
2001              RMIT Vietnam                     7.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
2002              VEIL                             0.00     12.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       41.20     14.50     4.00     54.00
- 77 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &      Low-
Vietnam     Pacific  Income      Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      77.5     1,837     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    370     1,000       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     27.4     1,833       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population tX)                                        1.6       1.2       1.9     GNP
Labor force f%)                                       1.6       1.3       2.3      GNP e                          Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             capita                        primary
Poverty (% of population below nationat poverty line)  37
Urban population (% of total population)               23        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       68        69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               37        35        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             39        22        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (I% of population)     36        84        64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    7        15        39
Gross Primarv enrollment (%of school-age population)  114       119        96            -V   ietnam
Male                                                116       121       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              110       121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic rattos'
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..      6.3      25.9      27.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..    14.6      21.6      20.1                     Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP             ..     23.8       45.9     55.1                     rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..     4.4
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..     5.1       16.2     23.5
Current account balance/GDP                           -9.3      -4.9      3.0     Domestic      A
Interest payments/GDP                         ..      0.9       2.1       2.3                                 Investment
Total debtGDP /a                              ..       ..       41.5     40.6      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                    ..       ..       13.4     13.7
Present value of debtGDP /a                   ..       ..      38.1      37.3
Present value of debt/exports /a              ..       ..       82.7     72.3
Indebtedness
I1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.3      7.8      4.0       4.0       5.8                   Vietnam
GNP per capita                      1.7      6.0      2.3       2.3                             Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services        ..     24.1      3.3      21.5       9.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        40
Aqriculture                                   ..     40.8       27.0     27.1
Industry                                      ..     22.9      34.0      36.7     20
Manufacturing                                ..     19.1        ..      18.7      o'                _
Services                                      ..     36.2      39.0      36.3      0      94   95   96    97        9
Private consumption                            ..    87.7       78.1     75.3    -40 -
General government consumption                ..      7.8       7.6       6.8                     GDIl         GDP
Imports of qoods and services                 ..     34.1      53.2      57.3
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average snnual growth)
Agriculture                                  3.9      4.6        3.5      4.5     60
Industry                                      ..     11.8       7.0       6.5     40
Manufacturing                                ..       ..                        20
Services                                      ..      7.9       2.1       1.6      o      , 
Private consumption                            ..     5.9       -8.7      5.2            94    95    9
General government consumption                 ..     9.4        3.2     -5.0    4-
Gross domestic investment                      ..    18.4      -21.8     -2.8     4
Imports of goods and services                  ..    24.3     -27.1      18.9            -     Exports    11Imwports
Gross national product                       4.4      7.7        4.0      4.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 78 -



Vietnam
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998     1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                      95.8       7.8       4.3    1
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..     82.6       5.8       4.8    10
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)
Current revenue (exc.interest)                ..     13.9      19.0      18.6            94    95    96    97    98    99
Current budget balance                        ..      0.0       5.0      6.1                    GDP deflator  0 CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -1.1      -1.5
TRADE
(UJS$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..    1,320     9,365    11,520    1sooo
Rice                                         ..     319      1,024    1,025     200D
Fuel                                         ..     200      1,232    2,091     12,000
Manufactures                                 ..      ..         ..       ..     9,000
Total imports (cifl)                                1,790    11,386    11,643     i,000
Food                                         .
Fuel and energy                              ..      ..      1,136    1,166     3,000
Capital goods                                ..      ..                            0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        85       87            93   94  95    96  97   98   9
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..       ..        91       84                  U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     .,       ..        94      104
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                11,974    14,172
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..    13,507    13,834
Resource balance                              ..       ..    -1,533      338
Net income                                     ..      ..      -689     -557     -3
Net current transfers                         ..        6       951     1,051     r        **
Current account balance                       ..     -586     -1,271     833
Financing items (net)                         ..       ..     1,286      479      9
Changes in net reserves                                         -15    -1,311    -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..     2,028     3,424
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              ..  4,464.0   13,297.0  13,700.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed la       ..       ..    10,762    11,142
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0                      B: 851
IDA                                          1      59        851      989                              C: 407
Total debt service                             0     235      1,606     1,943                                 D: 712
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0      F: 3,450
IDA                                          0        1         5        9
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            192      44        198      133
Official creditors                           2      -50        70     -347
Private creditors lb                         0       3       -190     -500
Foreign direct investment /b                ..       ..       800      700
Portfolio equity                             0       0          ..      ..                            E: 5,340
World Bank program                                                                A: IBRD     D: Other mutilateral
Commitments                                  0       0        588      468      B: IDA      E: Bilateral
Disbursements                                1       0        254      158     C: IMF       F: Others (including SOEs debts,
Principal repayments                         0        1         1        2                  export credits, financial institutons,
Net flows                                    1       -1       254      156
Interest payments                            0       0          4        7
Net transfers                                1       -1       250      149
EASPR
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 11
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTER WASTE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
BACKGROUND
Vietnam has recently devoted increased attention to the matter of appropriate disposal of health care waste.
The Ministry of Health promulgated regulations in the year 2000 on Health Care Waste Management. At
the same time it issued training materials that are being used for the training of health care facility staff in
the proper handing and disposal of health care wastes. Many hospitals have begun to implement these
regulations but different hospitals throughout the country are at different stages of implementation.
The project will support the operations of Regional Blood Transfusions Centers (RBTCs) associated with
four large hospitals. As such, the RBTCs constitute relatively small portions of the overall operations of
these hospitals (for example, the National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion currently located
within Bach Mai Hospital in Hanoi employs 105 of the hospital's 1650 staff and has 35 of its 1350 beds).
It will be essential nonetheless that the project's activities strengthen overall hospital waste management to
the extent possible, particularly in those areas that are controlled or significantly influenced by the RBTC
programs.
Generally, there are four steps in health care waste management: 1) segregation into various components,
including reusable and safe storage in appropriate containers; 2) transportation to waste treatment and
disposal sites; 3) treatment; and 4) final disposition. The three broad categories of hospital waste of
concern to the project are the following (Taken from Safe Management of Wastes in Health-Care
Activities, WHO, 1999, and Health Care Waste Management Guidance Note. Lars Mikkel Johannsen, et
al., World Bank, May 2000):
Infectious: Discarded materials from health-care activities on humans or animals which have the potential
of transmitting infectious agents to human. These include discarded materials or equipment from
diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease, assessment of health status or identification purposes, that
have been in contact with blood and its derivatives, tissues, tissue fluids or excreta, or wastes from
infection isolation wards. Such wastes shall include, but not be limited to, cultures and stocks, tissues;
dressings, swabs or other items soaked with blood; syringe needles; scalpels; diapers; blood bags... .Sharps,
whether contaminated or not, should be considered as a subgroup of infectious health care wastes.
Includes: Syringe needles, scalpels, infusion sets, knives, blades, broken glass.
Pathological: Body tissues, organs, body parts, human fetuses, animal carcasses, liquid waste blood,
plasma, coagulated factors, body fluids.
Chemical: Consisting of, or containing chemical substances, including: laboratory chemicals; film
developer; disinfectants expired or no longer needed; solvents, cleaning agents and others.
The current management and disposal of these categories of hospital waste at the project sites were
assessed in the course of project preparation by an international consulting firm with specific expertise in
- 80 -



environmental waste management. It was determined that management of these wastes is not in all cases
up to international standards. For example, the quality of waste collection containers varies and none of
the hospitals has introduced a uniform system for waste segregation so that it is easy to identify the
containers for different wastes. Also, not all hospitals utilize waste collection bags of adequate quality.
The project costs include therefore investments for hospital/RBTC waste management measures to
eliminate the worst environmental risks associated with project activities and the incremental recurrent
costs required for continued implementation of these waste management measures. These are detailed
below.
PROJECT ACTIONS TO PREVENT/MITIGATE UNDESIRABLE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTS
Three overall criteria will guide project support for environmentally sustainable waste management at
project RBTCs:
Improved health and safety for staff, patients, visitors and persons who handle the waste (e.g.,
waste collection workers).
Improved health and safety and reduced nuisance for neighbors of the hospitals/RBTCs.
*      Reduced impact on the environment in general.
In addition, the activities should be economically sustainable by keeping operational costs as low as
possible. Based on the above assessment and criteria, the following activities will be supported through the
project:
Waste segregation and collection:
a      In order to ensure a better segregation of the waste in at least three fractions (infectious waste,
sharps and municipal waste) additional training will be provided to all groups of RBTC staff.
*      New staff members will receive appropriate training, and this will be repeated as needed.
a      The training will be supplemented with written instructions and other information materials that are
available for everyone at all times.
*      Those RBTCs that have not introduced heavy duty bags for infectious waste will do so.
*      More appropriate waste collection buckets will be introduced. These should be equipped with lids
and possibly also a foot pedal. Waste types will be easily identifiable through the color of the
container.
Internal transportation:
All hospitals/RBTCs will be supplied with wheeled trolleys to avoid transportation of waste bags
by hand over long distances and to ensure that those transporting the waste will not come into
direct contact with the waste bags.
For those hospitals/RBTCs where trolleys cannot pass from an upper to a lower floor level, the
trolleys will be equipped with buckets to avoid direct contact between the waste bags and those
carrying the bags.
*      Intermediate waste storage rooms will be established at hospitals/RBTCs as necessary.
- 81 -



Treatment of waste:
*      All the RBTCs will have access to appropriate treatment facilities that ensure safe, efficient
treatment of the health care risk waste and that do not cause a nuisance to staff, patients, visitors or
neighbors. This will involve the following interventions:
*      Hue: The height of the stack of the recently constructed, dual chamber incinerator will be
increased to avoid exposing the neighbors to smoke from the plant.
*      Can Tho: Government will construct a new modem hospital (1000 bed) at a new site complete
with the most up-to-date technology for comprehensive hospital waste treatment. Future RBTC
waste will be sent to the waste treatment facility of this hospital, which will employ the latest
technology. In the meantime, sharps will be sent to the municipal waste treatment facility which is
expected to be in operation within a few months.
*      If it is found that the new Can Tho municipal facility cannot treat other waste, this waste will, as is
currently the case, be disposed of in the municipal landfill. This will be done in a segregated area
and will be covered by soil each day per WHO guidelines on such operations. This approach will
serve solely for the interim 2-3 year period until the hospital's new treatment facility is operational.
*      Ho Chi Minh City: Cho Ray Hospital will continue its present practice of sending waste to the
modem municipal treatment facility, recently constructed with Belgian support, to which Ho Chi
Minh City hospitals and health care facilities can send their infectious and pathological wastes.
*      Hanoi: The RBTC will send its infectious waste to a hospital in Hanoi that has a modem, dual
chamber incinerator. This is an interim step until the planned Hanoi municipality health waste
treatment plant has been completed.
Organization of waste management:
*      The hospitals/RBTCs will establish clearer organizational structures for waste management and
will further delineate the division of responsibilities.
Information materials that are easier to read will be made available and more training of the staff
will be provided.
SUPERVISION OF THE ABOVE ACTIVITIES
*      Compliance with the above actions and steps being taken to improve waste management and
disposal will be monitored as part of supervision missions. Checks will be made on the types of
containers being utilized as well more generally how waste management and disposal is being
handled. This will include visits to actual disposal sites.
*      Brief narratives on compliance with proper waste disposal practice will be included in supervision
reports.
- 82 -



Additional
Annex 12
VIETNAM: Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project
Project Organizational Chart
Future Regular Organization              Project Implementation Organization
||Steering Committee
||Director-Vice Minister 
HANOI - RB3TC 
Deputy Director        ---Special account
co      _- PMU
m                                      ~~~~~~~~~~Procurement  Ra  U   Un |
HUE-RBTC
Director                                RPMU Dingctor  |--- --~------  Special account
I                                                                                          - RPMU
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rne
o                                      Proc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urmnt  Mnitrn
Uni
HCMC - RBTC
Diretor                              |RPMU Director  ---------- --Special account
0                                                                                           RPMU
o                                                   Procurement  FinacetUnng 
o                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Unit  Ui
CAN THO - RBTC
RPMU Dke4nr
co                     Director                       *-_-_   _-Spedal account
:S                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Deputy Director
- RPMU
L-unit                       Un i
-83 -






MAP SECTION






I      ~~~~~~~~~~I oI1
02'  104'     100'      108~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
T.~~~~~
~~,7'\  K'~~~~'0H" NN
Ha 
3   Gi~~~~~~~~
Ft ~~       0      A2       CIN
~~~~~~'  \   <'YJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'
-22\\                       l                2
T. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Ton       N >
-d ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 7  
T.        26       'L '* :
22'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
T H A I L A N D       Gul
LAO  P OPLE'S  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~3
DEOCA0 RPBLC2, t I)o
VIETNA
REGIONAL BLOOD~~~~~~~~Ta A
TRANSFUSION CNTERS%PROJEC
-7  7  "7-'0 ~ ~ S'.,,.g  Xn
-      31   7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 3  3  
/ZPOT TRALLROADS 
757~~~~~x          4 
PROVVITNMINCES:-'           "i>     7
102,                       46
C_ B_       _ _ _              '5
~~~~~n L. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,~  X
6Y. U, ~~~
REGONLYLOD 0) -g4
TRASFUIONCETER PRJET  I736               :
A6 AJPRS0  41041RASC  M B 0 D IA \0  A
~~~6 B- NmI, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I ~   ''-- '-  7
9107H 6  .'.',,l,1  -5   \ i.  5
2QbH.  "".l     z'-         " 
125T N.~." D . ''n
26 Th-h H-~~~55 
16 H.,1, T" ' h5
29 HO0n  A   o1      'kr *"'k'
30 Kn:0~ T ' " "I    61H 



