                                                                                42933

                            DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR

                                    PROJECT PAPER



Country: Vietnam                               Sector Director: EmmanuelY. Jimenez




-Borrower:  Socialist Republic o f Vietnam
Responsible agency: Ministryo f Health
   -                                                                          -
Revisedestimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)                                        I




FY              03-08          2008          1 2009           2010
Annual           10.61         3.00            24.00          11.08
Cumulative     1h-
                 10.61                         37.61          48.69               -
-
Current closing date: March 31,2008
Revisedclosing date: September30,2009
Indicateifthe restructuringis:

Board approved         X
RVP approved           -

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bankpolicies?     -Yes x No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                               xYes -No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              -Yes x No

Revised project development objective/outcomes
Not applicable



Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? Ifso, click here to
indicate which one(s). No

                              RevisedFinancingPlan(US$)


IBRD/IDA
Others


                                SocialistRepublicofVietnam
              RestructuringofRegionalBloodTransfusionCentersProject

Introduction

1.   Through this Project Paper, the Task Team seeks the approval o f the Executive
Directors for a restructuring o f the Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project (Project ID
P073305) funded by a credit extended by the Association to the Socialist Republic o f
Vietnam (Credit No. 3631-VN). The restructuring consists o f the following:
         Cancellation o f the construction o f a new Regional Blood Transfbsion Center
         (Rl3TC) inH o Chi MinhCity (HCMC) and some related equipment.
         Reallocation o f funds to increase the credit amounts allocated to the sub-
         components related to the establishment and operation o f the 3 remainingRBTCs in
         Hanoi, Hue and Can Tho, the costs o f which have escalated since projections were
         made at appraisal.
         Extension o f the project closing date by 18 months to enable the construction of the
         three RBTCs to be completed effectively, the equipment procured, installed and
         tested.
         Formally recording revisions of the performance monitoring indicators and output
         targets introduced at the MidtermReview.

2.   The Development Credit Agreement will be amendedto reflect the restructuring.

3,   The proposed modifications are consistent with the Project Development Objective
(PDO) to secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusion for the population served by
hospitals covered by the RBTCs; and the proposed closing date extension will provide the
needed conditions to meet the PDO.

Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

4.   The Credit o f SDR 38.20 (US$38.20 million equivalent) was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on April 16, 2002 and became effective on September 20, 2002. The
PDO is to secure the health benefits o f safe blood transfbsions for the population served by
hospitals covered by regional bloodtransfusion centers.

5.   Project Original Description       - The project has five components - four o f the
components focus on the development o f regional centers and a fifth focuses on national
support and capacity building efforts.        More specifically, the components are: (i)
development o f the Hanoi Regional Blood Transfusion Center (RBTC); (ii)     development of
the Hue RBTC; (iii)    development o f the H o Chi MinhCity RBTC; (iv) development of the
Can Tho RBTC; and (v) National Support and Capacity Building for the RBTCs by the
National Institute o f Hematology and Blood Transfbsion. Each o f the first four components
include sub-components covering: (i)voluntary donations recruitment program; (ii) blood
bank operations program; (iii)effective clinical use o f blood program; (iv) quality
management program; (v) RBTC staff development program; and (vi) facility and logistics
management program.

6.    Government Strategy The Project is an integral part o f the Government's Ten Year
                               -
National Program to support safe blood in Vietnam.         The National Program aims at: (i)
developing the legislation to regulate blood transfusions in the country; (ii)establishing
national standards for all blood centers to comply with international standards; and (iii)
establishing a national blood transfusion committee to regulate the sub-sector. The Project i s
also closely associated with a Technical Assistance Program for safe blood that is funded by
the Government o f Luxembourg and i s executed by WHO. The IDA-financedProject and the
Luxembourg-supported project collaborate closely in the areas o f staff training, capacity
building, and development o f an IT systemfor blood stock management.

7.    Past Performance and Implementation Issues The Project has experienced many
                                                          -
difficulties with finalizing the sites, obtaining land permits, resettlement, unclear regulations
for blood bank technical specifications and cost estimates, procurement o f civil works
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).        At the time o f the Mid Term Review
(MTR) in October 2005, bidding document for construction o f the centers and provision of
equipment which represent 75% o f the Credit amount, were still under preparation, and only
9% o f the IDA proceeds had been disbursed. The Task team discussed with the counterpart
on more than one occasions the option o f cancelling the operation if implementation would
not improve and downgraded the Project performance to Unsatisfactory. However, the issues
were technically complex and GOV requested one last chance in 2006 to turn this operation
around. An Action Plan to improve its performance was agreed upon and implementation o f
the Action Plan was monitored closely through intensive supervision and monthly video
conferences. As a result, Project implementation began to improve and the rating was
upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory in 2007. However, there was a growing concern that
with the increasing costs o f civil works and price of medical equipment which were found to
be underestimated it would be difficult to complete the construction and equipping all four
RBTC sites as planned with the existingproject allocation.

8.    Current Implementation Status          - Three o f the four regional centers are under
construction. The Bank team andthe M O Hmanagement made frequent visits to selected sites
over the last year since the construction o f the RBTC foundations started. The missions have
reported on the adequate progress on completion o f works as well as the good quality o f
construction. The Hanoi RBTC main building including 50% o f the engineering works are
completed. The supplementary works will start inMarch. The Can Tho RBTC main building
i s 60% completed and the engineering works i s 30% completed. The Hue RBTC main
building is 60% completed and the engineering works is 20% completed. One third o f the
payments to contractors have been made according to the works completed. The rest o f $11
million i s expected to be disbursed by September 2008. There are four packages o f blood
bank equipment through ICB procedures. The first package bid evaluation was completed in
December 2007, and contract awards are expected inMarch 2008. The biddingdocuments for
the rest o f the packages are under review by the government and the Bank. Bidding i s
expected inMay and August 2008. Delivery and installation o f the equipment are scheduled
immediately after the RBTC buildings are constructed and inspected in August 2008. Draft
bidding documents for blood bank furniture and office equipment are prepared, and
procurement will be coincided with the construction completion schedules. Training for the



                                                 2

new RBTC managers, physicians, technicians, quality control staff, laboratory supervisor,
blood collection, transport, and distribution managers will start in April 2008.         More
importantly, the Project has progressed very well in terms o f voluntary donations and blood
collection which are the KeyPerformance Indicatorsunder the Project (Table 1).

               Table 1. PercentageofBloodCollectedfromVoluntaryDonors
                                (End of ProjectTarget: 70%)
                              And Quantity ofBloodCollection




9.    DisbursementIssue, RevisedProjectionand ProcurementPlan - There is, however,
a lag indisbursement, mainly due to the earlier delays inconstruction design, and civilworks
and equipment procurement, the costs o f which account for 75% o f total Credit. As o f
December 17, 2007, US$11.31 million or 23% o f the original US$ equivalent amount had
been disbursed. Because o f the devaluation o fthe U S dollar vis-a-vis other hard currencies in
the SDR basket, the Credit amount in U S Dollar is currently about 22% higher than the
amount at approval. A new Disbursement Projection (Annex 1I) i s made in light of the
revisedprogram and a Procurement Plan (Annex 111) covering the 18 months extension is
agreed with the Project Management Unit. Based on the findings of the last supervision
mission in November 2007, the Disbursement Projection i s achievable. The Credit would be
hlly committed by September 30, 2009, and disbursed within the grace period, if the 18
month extension requested by the Borrower i s approved. The parallel Technical Assistance
Project funded by the Government o f Luxembourg has been extended to December 2009 and
will continue to support the program financed by the Credit.

10. The Issue with HCMC RegionalBlood Center - Despite significant improvements in
the implementation o f the three other regional centers, difficulties with the one in Cho Ray
Hospital in HCMC remain. Three years after the project became effective, MOH still could
not identify and finalize decision on the site for the proposed new RBTC buildingat Cho Ray
Hospital. The site location changed four times over three years, in part because the soaring
land prices in HCMC had made it difficult for MOH to meet the resettlement costs. Inmid
2006, MOH proposed to renovate an existing hospital building and convert it to a blood
center. However, by then there were only 23 months until the Project closing date, and thus
insufficient time to start a complex ICB procurement and implementation o f the civil works.
The Association proposed to cancel the Project sub-component related to the construction o f
the HCMC RBTC if bidding for the civil works could not start by October 2006. In fact,


                                                3

bidding for the civil works never took place, because the government agencies could not
reach an agreement on the cost estimates. While M O H was dealing with these issues, the
HCMC Hematology Hospital under the city government built a new blood transfusion center
with a capacity o f 200,000 units o f blood per year -which is 50,000 units above the current
demand inHCMC. Hence the Project and MOH had to deal with this reality o f a new blood
center functioning inclose proximity to the one proposed under the Project.

11.     Cancellation of the HCMC RBTC Construction - In consultation with MOH, the
internationalblood bank experts, and the WHO Technical Advisor inHanoi, the Association
proposed, in March 2007, a restructuring o f the sub-component involving the HCMC RBTC
by canceling its construction on the grounds o f duplication, MOH agreedto this proposal and
the Government has delegated the approval authority to MOH. The cancellation i s not
expected to affect the provision o f safe blood for the population covered by this RBTC,
because the existing blood bank in Cho Ray Hospital inHCMC will continue to collect and
provide blood to the hospitals in the five provinces it serves. However, Cho Ray will not
function as a hub for sophisticated blood testing as originally envisioned. This function will,
instead, be taken over by the new blood transfusion center at the HCMC Hematology
Hospital which has been built in the interim with funding from the HCMC People's
Committee. The HematologyHospital Blood Center or City Blood Center i s designed to meet
international standards and i s expected to be completed inearly 2008. It has a larger capacity
than that plannedunder the Project and will be very well equipped, thus serving as a hub for
more sophisticated bloodtesting.

12.     Proposed Changes The PDO will remain unchanged under the restructuring - to
                              -
secure the health benefits o f safe blood transfusions for the population served by hospitals
covered by the RBTCs. Specifically, the Project will continue to aim at meeting the
increasing demand for safe blood transfusions through funding the construction and
equipment o f RBTCs, to provide reliable blood services for the Project- covered areas and
serve as models for future blood centers across the country. However, instead o f financing
construction o f four RBTCs as envisaged at appraisal, it would finance the construction and
equipment of three RBTCs. As stated above the recently built Blood Transfusion Center at
the HCMC Hematology Hospital, together with the Cho Ray Hospital Blood Bank will
provide blood services for HCMC as well as the neighboring provinces. Therefore the
cancellation o f the construction o f HCMC RBTC will not adversely affect the supply o f the
blood transfusion services and blood products to the intended beneficiary population. This
will also prevent possible duplication with the efforts that the local government is putting in
place.

13.     There was a growing concern during project implementation that due to the
appreciation o f the cost o f civil works and especially the price o f medical equipment (which
was underestimated at project appraisal) the project would face difficulty in ensuring the
completion o f all RBTCs sites as planned. Therefore, most o f the savings from the proposed
cancellation will bereallocated to the remainingthree RBTCs.

14.     The proposed restructuring would also (i)     increase the financing for the voluntary
blood donations recruitment program to ensure that the Project can meet its development



                                                4

objectives, and (ii)  provide additional training to include blood bank staff and doctors from
blood centers and hospitals which were not originally included inthe Project. The proposed
restructuringwould also help to facilitate early integration o f blood centers into the national
blood transfusion network to meet the goals o f the Ten-Year National Program. Finally, as
part o f the restructuring, the changes to the Key PerformanceIndicatorsandthe changes on
the blood collection (output targets) o f each RBTC, which were revised at M T R (see Annex
I), beformallyrecorded. Theseoutputtargetsweredecidedpriortonegotiations,butnot
   will
reflected accordingly in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). In sum, while the scope o f
the Project would be somewhat reduced in the area o f construction, its objectives will
continue to be met.

15.   InstitutionalArrangements - The Project will continue to be executed by MOH, with
participation o f the National Institute o f Hematology and Blood Transfusion (NMBT) as the
implementing agency for the national-level and Hanoi-region activities; the RBTC based at
Hue centralHospital as the implementing agency for the Hue-region activities; and the RBTC
based at CanTho as the implementing agency for the Can Tho-region activities. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) in the NIHBT will continue to be responsible for overall project
implementation, financial management, procurement o f equipment through ICBs, and
coordination o f monitoring and evaluation activities. The Regional Project Management
Units (RPMUs) will continue to be responsible for management of construction, local
training, hiringo f local consultants, procurement throughNCBs, financial management under
their respective RBTC component.

16. Extensionof the ClosingDate and Reallocationof the Credit - As noted earlier, it i s
proposed that the restructuring be accompanied by an extension o f the closing date and
reallocations o f funds. An 18 months extension i s proposed to allow the effective completion
o f RBTC construction, and procurement, installation and testing o f equipment by September
2009. The reallocation (Table 2) i s mainly to cover the increased cost o f equipment (the
estimates at appraisal were too low), and decrease operating cost which were meant to
finance recurrent costs o f the RBTCs (blood bags, reagents). The recurrent costs o f the blood
centers have been financed through the Government budget starting from the second year of
implementation. There is also a decrease for consulting services and training because the
Government received a grant o f $4 million from Luxembourg Government to supplement the
Bank financing. The unallocated amount i s meant to cover the potential price increases for
procurement o f blood bank and lab equipment, as well as the cost of additional training for
bloodbank staff inprovinces which may decide to use the service o f the new RBTCs starting
from 2009. The following table presents a summary o f current and proposed allocations.




                                                 5

                          Table 2. Summary ProposedReallocation
                                         (SDRmillion)

       Category           Consolidated      Proposedallocation       YOof expendituresto be
                          Allocation as                                        financed
                          per DCA                                       -
(1) Civil Works                 6.04                  6.363                       90%
(2) Goods                     10.37                  16.607          100%o f foreign expenditures,
                                                                     100%of local expenditures
                                                                     (ex-factory cost), 90% of
                                                                     local expenditure for other
                                                                     items procuredlocally
(3) Consultants' Services      1.22                   0.702                      100%
(4) Training                    3.01                  2.336                      100%
(5) Incremental Operating      7.97                   1.712          50% through December 2007
costs                                                                and 80%thereafter
(6) Unallocated                2.19                    3.08
   TOT&                       30.80                  30.80



Analysis

17. At appraisal it was determined that benefits o f large up-front investments to improve
blood safety would be maximized by expanding output in only those blood centers with the
greatest potential o f producing and utilizing the highestvolume o f safe blood services. Thus,
the Project was designed to expand output in four strategically located blood banks with the
highest current output and the greatest existing technical capacity. To fully utilize the
increased output o f these selected blood banks, however, it was necessary to distribute their
safe blood output beyond their respective base hospitals, hence the need for them to operate
as regionalblood transfusion centers. These assumptions are maintained.

18.    Financial - From a financial perspective, the Project was designed to finance a five-
year slice o f the total operations of four regional blood centers. Prior to the Project, the
Government operated blood banks in the four Project sites. However, the technical quality
and quantity o f outputs o f these blood centers were low relative to the levels required for
meetingthe Project's objectives. Through Project implementation, all blood centers are to be
upgraded to reach much higher standards o f blood safety, The financial costs at the time o f
appraisal were to cover both the investment and recurrent costs of the RBTCs operating at
their expected levels o f output for the duration o f the Project. However, after the MTR, the
Government decided not to use the Credit for financing recurrent costs o f the RBTCs (blood
bags, reagents, etc), because o f the concerns on the shortage o f funds for construction and
equipment. Instead, the recurrent costs o f the blood centers have been financed through the
government budget. The Credit funds still cover part o f the incremental operating cost o f the
PMUandRPMUs, as well as the costs for voluntary donationrecruitmentprogram.




                                                6

19. Social - A social analysis o f the system o f blood services prior to the Project was
undertaken to understand how the prevailing situation might affect attainment o f the Project
objectives. Individual hospitals depended on their respective bloodbanks to screen and draw
blood from paid donors with the collected blood packs transfused to patients for a fee. The
system was sustainable by the convergence o f interests among various stakeholders: (i)    blood
donors who received payment for their donations, (ii)       the clinicians whose orders for blood
transfusions were satisfactorily met, (iii)the patients who received and paid for these
transfusions, and (iv) the hospital that operated the bloodbank as a revenuegenerating part of
its services.    The social analysis indicated that: (i)the commitment o f the different
stakeholder groups to the prevailing system was relatively weak as paid blood donors did not
depend on blood donations as their primary source o f income, (ii)      clinicians were becoming
more concerned about the continued availability o f safe blood inthe immediate and medium-
term, (iii)patients incurred heavy financial burdens due to hospitalization and considered
payments for blood as part o f that burden, (iv) hospitals faced many competing demands for
investments in facilities and regarded the investment needs o f blood services as yet another
contender for limited resources. Although it took a long time for the Government to accept
the benefits o f changing its policy from paying blood donors to promoting a volunteer system
o f donations, the findings o f the social analysis in fact proved to be right. New stakeholders
were able to be mobilized to support the restructuring o f the blood services and hospital
management and clinicians increasingly recognized the need for increased levels of blood
safety, including the urgency of shifting to voluntary unpaid donations as the main source o f
blood. Availability o f external assistance to meet the investment needs for attaining higher
levels o f blood safety certainly generated support from health service providers. Through
systematic efforts by the Project, a growing community o f healthy voluntary donors has been
mobilized by the new blood services as the primary stakeholders of the new system. The
source of stakeholder support for blood services has shifted from mostly participants in a
commercialsystem to people involved inacts of sustained social solidarity.

20. Environmental The environmentalcategory at appraisal is C andwill not change with
                        -
the restructuring. However, the Project includes financing for hospital waste management
measures to eliminate the worst environmental risks associated with Project activities and the
incremental recurrent costs required for continued implementation o f these waste
management measures. Project supervision has included an Environmental Specialist, who
has methodically reviewed progress in dealing with environmental issues and has provided
detailed recommendations on ways to improve the environmental aspects. The Project does
not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

ExpectedOutcomes

21.     As discussed inthis Project Paper, the proposed changes will not affect the PDO. Key
Performance Indicators under the Project are taken seriously by M O H and NIHBT, and are
regularly monitored, evaluated, and reported as part o f the regular Project reporting. A t Mid
Term Review (MTR), some outcomes indicators were deemed inadequate for measuring
specific contribution o f the project activities in changing blood transfusion services in the
country. The indicators were more `institution-specific' and related to the quality o f care as
opposed to the effectiveness o f the project supported operations. Therefore most o f the



                                                  7

outcome indicators were dropped and replaced with new, more valid and project-specific
outcome indicators, without jeopardizing the ability o f the project management team to
monitor the attainment of the project development objectives. The outcome indicators didnot
have quantitative targets initially; therefore no changes inthe targets were proposedby MTR.
The changes are mostly interms redefiningthe content ofthe indicator (see Annex 1).

22.     Output indicators measuring the performance of specific components definitions were
kept as initially proposed, but the target values relatedto the quantity of blood collected were
revised. During the MTR, the initial blood collection targets were deemed overly ambitious
and were changed. The revised performance indicators reflect the recommendations of
experts andthe MoH's approvedtargets (see Annex 1).

23.     Since the MTR, the revisedindicators, as summarized inAnnex 1,have been used for
monitoring the project performance and achievement o f the development objectives. This
ProjectPaper formally puts on recordthe changes introducedduringthe MTR.


Benefits andRisks

24. The Project is aiming at meeting the increasing demand for safe blood transfhions to
provide efficient and'reliable blood services to hospitals located within the geographic area.
It is seeking to remove, as far as possible, uncertainties and lack o f confidence inthe safety
and clinical effectiveness o f blood transfusions among patients as well as health service
providers. By focusing public investments and recurrent support on a few regional blood
centers serving as many hospitals as possible, the Project will demonstrate an efficient
approach for using limited public funds to maximize benefits in terms o f blood safety. In
addition, the Project will have laid the foundations for cushioning the financial burdens of
private costs o f blood transfusions to individual patients by: (i)demonstrating a viable
alternative for producing blood services in several regions of the country at the lowest unit
costs while meeting international standards o f good manufacturing practice, and (ii)
developingpolicies for sustained domestic financing o fthe centers providing these services at
these costs.

25. Fulfillingthe Project's Development Objective i s particularly important because it aims
to secure the health benefits o f safe blood transfusion for the Vietnamese people. The new
RBTCs are designed to serve as models for future blood centers in the country. Fourteen
regional centers across the country are planned to be completed as part o f the Government's
10-year Program.

26.     The risks identified at appraisal have been examined as part o f the restructuring.
While the measures to mitigate risks agreed at the time of appraisal have worked well during
Project implementation, the PAD was short in identifying additional risks which have
plagued Project implementation; these are: (i)complexities with land acquisition and
resettlement, (ii)  weak institutional capacity at central and provincial levels, (iii)  national
construction standards well below international standards required for blood banks, (iv)
importance o f adhering to environmental considerations,             including hospital waste



                                                 8

management, and (v) discrepancy between the national procurement law and Bank
procurement guidelines. To mitigate these risks, Project supervision has been intense to help
resolve bottlenecks. The skill mix for Project supervision has ensured that the Association
was able to provide guidance in all aspects of Project implementation in a timely manner.
Under the restructured project, the Task Team also plans to hire a blood bank equipment
expert, in addition to the WHO technical advisor, in reviewing blood bank equipment
technical specifications, and bidevaluation reports.

March 6,2008




                                               9


                                           Annex I:ProjectIndicators
                          VIETNAM: RegionalBloodTransfusionCentersProject

                        Table 1: De dopment objec ves and outcomein1 cators
                   Outcome/Impact Status             Revised              Comments           Date
 Development       Indicators          D =dropped    >utcome/impact                          Collection
 Objective         (Original)          R =revised    [ndicators                              Strategy
                                       NC= no change
                                       N =new indic.
 T o secure health % o frequired       D &R           Quantity o fblood   [ndicator was      Quarterly
 benefits or safe  hospitalblood                      :ollection from     revised inorder    reports from
 blood             stock metby                        voluntary donors    to capture the     each RPMUto
 transhsions for   RBTC increased                     increased           :xtent to which    P M U
 the population                                      mdpaiddonors         the project
 covered hospitals                                    decreased           :ontributes to the Six month
 served by                                                                increased supply   reports from
 Regional Blood                                                           o f safe blood as  P M U t o W B
 Transfusion                                                              opposed to just    based on
 Centers (RBTCs)                                                          increasedblood     report from
                                                                          mpply.             each hospital
                                                                          According to
                                                                          international
                                                                          expert consensus
                                                                          voluntary unpaid
                                                                          donations are key

I                                                                         precondition for
                                                                          blood safety.

                    % o f quantity o f D & R           % Blood and blood  The initial        Quarterly
                   bloodproducts                      components used in  indicator was too  reports from
                   required for care                  eachhospitals       narrowly focused   each RPMUto
                   o fhemophiliac                     covered byRBTC,     on a single        PMU
                   increase                           which was supplied  disease.
                                                      by RBTC             Therefore it was   Six month,
                                                                          dropped and        reports from
                                                                          replacedby more    PMUto wJ3
                                                                          general and        based on
                                                                          inclusive          report from
                                                                          indicator that     each hospital
                                                                          measures the
                                                                          balance between
                                                                          the demand and
                                                                          supplyo fblood
                                                                          products inthe
                                                                          hospitals covered
                                                                          by the project.




                                                          10

3% o fblood                                  Droppedbecause       Quarterly
transfusions with                            this indicator i s a reports from
adverse clinical                             measureof            each RPMUto
consequences                                 quality o f care in PMU
decreased                                    the hospital and
                                             doesn't              Six month
                                             adequately           reports from
                                             capture the          PMUtoWB
                                             effectiveness of     basedon
                                             Blood Bank           report from
                                             operations.          eachhospital

 % ofblood-                                                       Quarterly
transmissable                                                     reports from
infections                                                        each RPMUto
transmitted                                                       PMU
through
transfusions                                                      Six month
decreased                                                         reports from
                                                                  PMUtoWB
                                                                  basedon
                                                                  report from
                                                                  eachhospital
                 N    Training for doctors   An additional        Six month
                      and nurses in          output indicator     reports from
                      hospitals and staffs in was addedto         PMUto WB
                      RBTCs increased        measurethe           basedon
                                              capacity building   report from
                                             efforts.             each hospital




                        11

                                           Annex I:ProjectIndicators
                            VIETNAM: RegionalBloodTransfusionCenters Project


Output fromeach component         Status        RevisedTargets output          Comments
                                  R =revised    targets
                                  NC= no change




(a) Collects 100.000 units o f                                                 Targets decided at the appraisal
blood per year, 70% of which                    per year, 70% o f which come   were unrealistic and were
come from voluntary donors                      from voluntary donors          adjusted at the MTRto align
                                                                               them with the government
                                                                               decision on the targets relatedto
                                                                               the same outputs (Decision
                                                                               number 57/QD-TTg)
(b)Tests, processes, stores and
distributes whole blood and some
blood components according to
international standard of good
manufacturing practice
(c) Meets the clinical needs for
blood of 70 hospitals ina 5
province region with a
population o f 8 million




(a) collects 60,000 units ofblood               Collects 50.000 units o fblood
per year, 70% of which come                     per year, 70% of which come
from voluntary donors                           from voluntary donors

(b)Tests, processes, stores and   NC
distributes whole bloodand some
blood components according to
international standard o f good
manufacturing practice
(c) Meets the clinical needs for  NC
blood o f 40 hospitals ina 5-
province region-with a
population o f 5 million


(a) Collects 100.000 units of     R             Collects 70,000 units ofblood
bloodper year, 70% o f which                    per year, 70% o f which come
come from voluntary donors                      from voluntary donors

(b) Tests, processes, stores and IN C
distributes-whole blood and some
blood components according to    .
international standard o f good
manufacturing practice



                                                          12

(c) Meets the clinical needs for   N C
bloodo f 35 hospitals ina 6-
province regionwith a
population o f 10 million

4. To establishby2006 a regional
(a) Collects 60.000 units o fblood R                 Collects 50.000 units ofblood
per year, 70% ofwhich come                           peryear, 70% ofwhich come
fromvoluntary donors                                 from voluntary donors

(b) Tests, processes, stores and
distributes whole bloodandsome
bloodcomponents according to
international standardof good
manufacturingpractice
                                                                                       I
(c) Meets the clinical needs for   N C
blood o f 35 hospitals ina 5-
province region with a
population o f 7 million                            I                                  I
5. To establishby 2006 essential r :ional standards for bloodtransfusion services (including policies on financing the
operations of regionalbloodtransfusion centers) and the core technical capabilities at other future additional RBTCs


Status: NC




                                                               13

      Annex 11: DisbursementProjections
VIETNAM: RegionalBloodTransfusionCentersProject

                   Table 1
                         I  Formally    1




                      14

      Annex 11:DisbursementProjections
VIETNAM: RegionalBloodTransfusionCentersProject

                   Table 2




                     15

Annex I11ProcurementPlanThrough September30,2009
VIETNAM: RegionalBloodTransfusionCenters Project


Procurementpackageswith methodsandtime schedule:




                       16

                             - -
  Packages description             No. of IEstimated cost   Procurement  Review by the
                                                               method         Bank
Project Manager            cs                             Individual     Prior review
(Supervision) for the
construction of the main
building of Hanoi RBTC
Project Manager            cs    1               103,125  Individual     Prior review  Jul. 31,2008    On-going
(Supervision) for the
construction of the main
building o f Hue RBTC
Project Manager            cs    1                75,000  Individual     Prior review  Jul. 31,2008    On-going
(Supervision) for the
construction of the Can
Tho RBTC
International Procurement  cs    1               120,000  Individual     Prior review  Jul. 31,2008    On-going
Adviser
International Procurement  cs    1                60,000  Individual     Prior review   Dec. 31,2008   Proposal
Adviser
National Advisers          cs    11               158,400 Individual     Postreview     Around end of  On-going

National Advisers          cs    25              360,000  Individual     Postreview
Inspection of Goods        cs    1                100,000 QCBS           Prior reivew
Evaluation of              cs    1                45,000  sss            Prior review
Effectivenessof the Project




                                                       17

