                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001358



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-36310)



                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.8 MILLION
                     (US$38.20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                    FOR A

           REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTERS PROJECT



                                 March 26, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
Vietnam Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 2002)

                       Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)
                             1.00 VND= US$ 0.000066
                             US$ 1.00 = 15,133 VND

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 ­ December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAS        Country Assistance Strategy         MOH       Ministry of Health
CPMU       Central Project Management Unit     MTR       Mid-Term Review
DCA        Development Credit Agreement        NIHBT     National Institute of Hematology
                                                         and Blood Transfusion
DO         Development Objective               PAD       Project Appraisal Document
EMP        Environmental Management Plan       PDO       Project Development Objective
GMP        Good Manufacturing Practice         PMU       Project Management Unit
HCMC       Ho Chi Minh City                    RBTC      Regional Blood Transfusion Center
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency              SDR       Special Drawing Rights
           Virus/Acquired Immune
           Deficiency Syndrome
ICB        International Competitive Bidding   SOP       Standard of Procedure
IDA        International Development           TA        Technical Assistance
           Association
ICR        Implementation Completion and       TOT       Training of Trainer
           Results Report
IEC        Information, Education, and         VUBD      Voluntary Unpaid Blood Donation
           Communication
ISR        Implementation Status and Results   WB        World Bank
           Report
IT         Information Technology              WHO       World Health Organization
KPI        Key Performance Indicator           VUBT      Voluntary Unpaid Blood
                                                         Transfusion
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation

                            Vice President: James W. Adams
                         Country Director: Victoria Kwakwa
                           Sector Manager: Juan Pablo Uribe
                      Project Team Leader: Lingzhi Xu
                         ICR Team Leader: Lingzhi Xu
                               VIETNAM
              REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTERS PROJECT


                                                       Contents


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 22
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........ 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by (Component) Performance Indicators......................................... 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 31
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 33
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 36
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 37
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 42
  MAP IBRD 31559......................................................................................................... 43
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Regional Blood
Country:                Vietnam                  Project Name:
                                                                           Transfusion Centers
Project ID:             P073305                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36310
ICR Date:               03/31/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           SOCIALIST
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                           VIETNAM
Original Total
                        XDR 30.8M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 23.1M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 23.1M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 National Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion, Ministry of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 WHO/Luxembourg Technical Assistance (Parallel Financing) US$3.9 mln

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/16/1997     Effectiveness:          09/20/2002           09/20/2002
Appraisal:             05/25/2001     Restructuring(s):                            03/25/2008
Approval:              04/16/2002     Mid-term Review:        10/10/2005           09/23/2005
                                      Closing:                03/31/2008           09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                           17                  17
HIV/AIDS                                                               33                  33
Health system performance                                              33                  33
Population and reproductive health                                     17                  17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:            Juan Pablo Uribe                     Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Project Team Leader:       Lingzhi Xu                           L. Richard Meyers
ICR Team Leader:           Lingzhi Xu
ICR Primary Author:        Huong Lan Dao


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusions for the population covered by
hospitals served by Regional Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTCs).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO has remained unchanged throughout the Project's implementation and
restructuring.



                                               ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                  approval        Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)       Values        Target Years
                  % share of total blood collection of RBTC drawn from voluntary donors and
Indicator 1 :
                  repeat voluntary donors
Value
quantitative or   25%                        70% - 100%          70%             93.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                  09/20/2002           03/25/2008    12/31/2009
Comments          The target value of 70% was achieved by 2006 in some centers, but not all
(incl. %          centers. Therefore, the target for the project as a whole could not be increased at
achievement)      the time of restructuring.
Indicator 2 :     The quantity of blood collection (blood units)
Value
                                                                                 249,919 (96.1% of
quantitative or   60,500                     260,000
                                                                                 the target)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2002                 09/20/2002                          12/31/2009
Comments
                  One center over achieved the target by 4% reaching 104% while the others
(incl. %
                  achieved 90% to 95%.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                Adequate stock of blood to serve population covered by hospitals under RBTC
Indicator 1 :
                project
                                           To meet the                        The project
                                           clinical transfusion               managed to meet
                                           needs of 3 central                 70% - 80% of the
                                           and regional                       clinical needs of the
Value
                                           hospitals and 180                  hospitals in 22
(quantitative   10% of total needs
                                           provincial and                     project-covered
or Qualitative)
                                           district hospitals                 provinces. The
                                           with a population                  country average
                                           of 30 million in 22                was about 40% in
                                           provinces.                         2009.
Date achieved 06/30/2004                   09/20/2002                         12/31/2009
Comments        The project has significantly increased its coverage of providing safe blood
(incl. %        products to provinces. The original target was 22 provinces, and by the end of
achievement) the project, services extend to 33 provinces.




                                                  iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    05/03/2002       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    11/20/2002       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    04/04/2003       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.88
  4    10/31/2003       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    0.93
  5    05/06/2004       Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory                    1.30
  6    06/29/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.32
  7    06/30/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.32
  8    12/20/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.46
  9    05/19/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.35
 10    02/03/2006   Moderately Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                    5.82
 11    04/18/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              8.35
 12    06/25/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              9.14
 13    09/21/2007   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              9.75
 14    11/14/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            16.60
 15    11/21/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            16.74
 16    07/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            26.83
 17    11/18/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            33.70


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The restructuring includes: (i)
                                                     Cancellation of the construction
                                                     of the Regional Blood
                                                     Transfusion Center (RBTC) in
                                                     Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC)
                                                     and some related equipment;
                                                     (ii)Reallocation of funds to
                                                     increase the allocation for civil
 03/25/2008       N       MS    MS           12.15
                                                     works and medical equipment
                                                     for the 3 remaining RBTCs in
                                                     Hanoi, Hue and Can Tho, the
                                                     costs of which have escalated
                                                     from the projections made at
                                                     appraisal; and (iii) Extension of
                                                     the project closing date by 18
                                                     months to enable the



                                              iv
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     construction of the three RBTCs
                                                     to be completed effectively, the
                                                     equipment procured, installed
                                                     and tested. The proposed
                                                     changes are consistent with the
                                                     original Project Development
                                                     Objective.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Vietnam has achieved basic health outcomes that are remarkably better than other
developing countries at similar or even higher per capita incomes. While being very
successful in improving basic health indicators in the past, Vietnam is now faced with
new challenges, like the increasing share of non-communicable disease burden and
increasing number of injuries, at a time of also persistent and/or re-emerging infectious
diseases. Hospital services, especially publicly-administered ones, play an essential role
in providing health care access to people at all levels.

Within the health sector, the Government had identified numerous problems with the
blood supply system. It was estimated that only about 10% ­ 14% of blood needs were
being met. However, the available suppliers were of uncertain quality, thus posing high
risks of blood transmissible infections. Even some district hospitals provided emergency
transfusion of untested blood. Most blood available for transfusion was drawn from paid
donors or patient's relatives in case of emergency. The Government lacked the capacity
and resources to undertake the cost and effort necessary to assure the safety and quality
of blood provided by so many independent blood banks. Public confidence in the blood
system was low, which in turn undermined the credibility of the whole hospital system.
Meanwhile, demand for higher standards of safety in blood services increased overtime.
This is particularly so with the increased availability and use of medical procedures
involving blood transfusions, even as the spread of blood-borne diseases made each
transfusion riskier.

While all of the above considerations provided important reasons for the Government to
support safe blood, a further important reason stemmed from the threat of the Human
Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS)
epidemic. Most importantly, the AIDS epidemic had greatly increased the risk to patients
of existing medical procedures. Simply maintaining the level of safety that existed before
the presence of HIV required additional hygiene and blood screening, and both of which
raised the cost of health care. Unless current constraints to increasing the supply of safe
blood in Vietnam were overcome, its price would rise substantially. A central rationale
for investing in safe blood in very poor countries was to help the Government cushion the
effects of the shock of the epidemic and maintain an essential level of care.

Under these circumstances, the Government raised the possibility of fast-tracking the
improvement of the country's blood transfusion to address the important needs of the
country. The World Bank (WB) also recognized securing blood transfusion safety as an
important aspect of preventing a potential explosion of HIV/AIDS infections, while also
seeing the improvement of blood services as an element of much needed wide public
hospital reforms.




                                            1
The project strategy was based on a body of World Health Organization (WHO) technical
recommendations for meeting transfusion needs while reducing risks associated with
transfusion. The WHO strategy for safe blood transfusion involves the development of a
nationally coordinated network of transfusion service outlets that can provide sufficient
and timely supplies of safe blood products for the correct clinical use of patients who
require them. The safe blood transfusion is to be assured by three mutually reinforcing
mechanisms, namely:

   -   Careful donor selection: Collection of blood only from voluntary unpaid blood
       donors recruited from low risk populations using stringent donor selection
       procedures. Such donor selection helps to assure that only safe blood is collected.
   -   Rigorous blood screening: testing of every donation of blood detected for
       infections that are transmissible by transfusion, including hepatitis viruses, HIV,
       syphilis and other infectious agents, as well as to ensure that each blood pack is
       accurately grouped and correctly labeled. Testing of all blood donations ensures
       that any infected blood donated is identified and excluded from use.
   -   Effective clinical use of blood: Safe blood transfusion practice means that blood is
       correctly stored, compatible, prescribed and administered according to clinical
       guidelines for good practice.

The systematic, consistent and routine application of these three inter-locking blood
safety mechanisms require levels of community effort, organizational resources, technical
capabilities and physical facilities that entail high fixed costs for any country. Such fixed
costs are likely to be required whether 1,000 or 100,000 units of blood are used annually.
Cost effectiveness in the acquisition and development of basic capabilities for blood
safety therefore argue for large scale operations towards quantities of blood product
outputs as high as can be appropriately utilized for clinical transfusions. Cost
effectiveness in the clinical utilization of such higher output of blood then argues for
blood centers that serve as many hospitals within a contiguous area as travel time and
transport conditions allow to be covered. These considerations lead to the project
strategy of developing regional blood transfusions centers, which collect blood from
voluntary donors drawn from a large population in a multi-province region, test and
process blood at a central laboratory and then distribute safe blood to the many public
and private hospitals serving the same population and region.

By the time of the project preparation, in Vietnam, there were two on-going IDA projects
(National Health Support Project, and Population and Family Health Project), which
addressed the primary health care and reproductive health needs of the poorest
communities in Vietnam, the option of another project in the area of community health
was not considered. During this time, the Government has just approved the National
Safe Blood Transfusion Program for the period 2001 ­ 2009, though the country financial
and technical resources for the implementation was very limited. It was expected that the
Regional Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTC) Project would not just to complement the
success of the government's program but would also help reduce its considerable risk of
failure of the program implementation.




                                             2
In the region, the Bank has never had any comprehensive support to the blood center in
any country, except some minor supports on safe blood transfusion activities under
specific components in HIV/AIDS projects recently. At the design stage of the project,
the Bank could not find any similar project or component in the whole Bank system for
lesson learnt and experience sharing.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The original PDO was to secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusions for the
population covered by hospitals served by Regional Blood Transfusion Centers (RBTCs).

Defined key indicators included: By the end of the Project, for patients in hospitals in the
service area of RBTCs, the:
    - share of required hospital blood stocks met by RBTCs products will have
        increased,
    - availability of appropriate blood products for the care of hemophilia patients will
        have increased,
    - incidence of blood transfusion reactions will have increased, and
    - incidence of blood transmitted infections will have decreased.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The PDO remained unchanged throughout the Project implementation and restructuring.

However, during project implementation, it was noted that the four PDO indicators were
not supported by the country's available data collection and reporting system. In October
2004, it was agreed that the PDO indicators should be revised, and two new indicators
were selected which could be supported by the existing data collection and reporting
system in the country as well as servicing the purpose of project monitoring. The two
PDO indicators were:
    - % share of total blood collection of RBTCs from voluntary donors and repeat
       voluntary donors will increase, and
    - quantity of blood collection (blood units) will increase.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project was designed to bring original benefits to:
    · women for treatment of bleeding due to complications during childbirth,
    · children and young people with severe anemia,
    · victims of accidents and injuries involving loss of blood, and
    · patients undergoing general survey, major reconstructive surgery (e.g., coronary
    bypass grafting, heart valve replacement, joint replacement, organ transplantation),
    treatment of leukemia, cancer, and hemophilia.



                                             3
Project beneficiaries also included:
    · medical staff working in the blood transfusion sector, who received training
    support from the Project, and
    · newly set up Regional Blood Transfusion Centers

Target population were people who lived in communities likely to obtain access to
hospitals supported by safe blood services from the RBTCs under the Project. For the
four Centers under the Project, this included the 30 million inhabitants of 22 provinces
served by 180 hospitals. Those groups within this population whose health conditions
required blood transfusions and who were able to access hospital care in time to obtain
the transfusion would benefit the most. Even those who do not end up getting a
transfusion would also benefit from the peace of mind and sense of personal security
derived from assurances that, if and when blood transfusion were needed, adequate,
reliable and safe services would be readily available.

Four cities/provinces were selected for the project, including Hanoi, Hue, Can Tho, and
Ho Chi Minh City. They were four main economic and social centers of the country,
representing the North, the Central, the Eastern South and the Mekong Delta regions, as
well as main central biggest medical centers. At the project design phase, when the
financial, technical and human resources of the centers were very limited, it was
expected that the RBTCs could get benefit from and be based on the current Central
hospitals in the respected regions for the project implementation, operation, and
management.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The original project components were:

   1. Development of the Hanoi RBTC - supports the following regional programs: (a)
      voluntary donation recruitment, (b) blood bank operations, (c) effective clinical
      use of blood, (d) quality management, (e) RBTC staff development, (f) facility
      and logistics management, and (g) the cost of resettlement or compensation
      associated with households' loss of land or other assets due to selection of the
      site.

   2. Development of Hue RBTC (supports regional programs as in Component 1 a-f)

   3. Development of Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC) RBTC (supports regional programs
      as in Component 1 a-f)

   4. Development of Can Tho RBTC (supports regional programs as in Component 1
      a-f)

       Note: All four components had the same activities but differed in scope of work
       and capacity of blood donation




                                           4
   5. National support and capacity building for the RBTCs by the National Institute of
      Hematology and Blood Transfusion (NIHBT): This component assisted the
      NIHBT in providing national-level technical, operation, and policy support as
      well as other capacity building inputs critical to the success of the regional blood
      transfusion centers. It had four sub-components: (a) Support to Four Regional
      Programs; (b) Support for Development of a Blood Services Financing Policy; (c)
      Training for Future RBTCs; and (d) Project Management.

1.6 Revised Components

In March 2007, the Bank proposed to cancel the construction of the center in HCMC and
restructure the HCMC RBTC component. In July 2007, the Vietnam Ministry of Health
(MOH) agreed with the Bank recommendation and in March 2008, the Bank formally
approved the resulting project restructuring.

The justification for restructuring the Project was clear and well documented. The
Project had experienced many difficulties in finalizing the sites, obtaining land permits,
and completing the resettlement process. Unclear national regulations for blood bank
technical specifications and cost estimates, procurement of civil works through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, change of leadership in four Project
Management Units (PMUs), and weak institutional capacity also contributed to the slow
implementation in the first three years of the Project. At the time of the Mid-Term
Review in October 2005, only 9% of the International Development Association (IDA)
credit proceeds had been disbursed. The project performance rating was downgraded to
Unsatisfactory. The most problematic component was the HCMC RBTC which
encountered difficulties in identifying a site for the new RBTC building at project design
and preparation stage and could not solve the problem three years after the Project
became effective. The site changed four times over three years, while the land prices in
Vietnam kept going up and the budget to meet the cost of resettlement for the selected
site in Cho Ray Hospital could not catch up with the soaring land prices. By that time,
the City Government had decided to finance a City Blood Transfusion Center in
Hematology Hospital with a capacity of 200,000 blood units annually. Thus, the need for
a new blood transfusion center in Cho Ray Hospital did not seem to be as urgent as a few
years earlier when the Project was designed. There was also a debate on the benefits of
having two blood centers in the same city, although each center would serve different
hospitals in the city and nearby provinces.

The number of components remained unchanged at the restructuring of the Project. Only
the third component on HCMC RBTC was revised. Sub-component (f) under this
component - facility and logistics management - was reduced. This sub-component
supported the following activities: (f.1) conversion of existing facilities for the immediate
use of the Project, including accommodation of voluntary blood donation program staff
and activities; (f.2) planning, contracting and implementation of construction and
equipment of a new facility; (f.3) planning, preparation or acquisition of facilities for
collection, handling, transport and storage of blood within and outside the RBTC site;
(f.4) assessment and improvement of hospital based blood storage, cross matching and



                                             5
transfusion facilities in 69 hospitals; and (f.5) maintenance of the RBTC physical
facilities. Of the 5 main activities, only the construction of the new facility and a few
pieces of equipment were cancelled. As for (f.5), Cho Ray hospital still maintains the
blood bank facilities in the existing building.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were two major changes in funding during project implementation - one at the
Mid-Term Review in 2005, and the other at the project restructuring in 2008.

In 2005, the Government decided not to use the Credit to finance the recurrent costs of
the RBTCs, because it became clear by then that the estimated costs for construction and
equipment agreed upon during project preparation were too low and would need to be
revised at the time of bidding. To make up for the shortage of funds for construction, the
Government decided to finance the recurrent costs of RBTCs using Government budget.

In addition to demonstrating country ownership, this restructuring increased the financing
support for the voluntary blood donation recruitment program which had been
performing well. It also extended the staff training program to non-project provinces and
cities because of the increased demand for training and the need to strengthen the newly
developed National Blood Service System.

The closing date of the project was extended and funds were reallocated when the project
was restructured in 2008. An 18-months extension was granted to allow effective
completion of construction, procurement, installation and testing of equipment in the new
RBTCs, and training of staff. The funds for civil works under the HCMC component
were reallocated to supplement the funding for construction of other RBTCs. Part of the
costs for consulting services, training and incremental costs were picked up by a WHO
Technical Assistance (TA)2 project, enabling savings under those categories to be
reallocated to make up for the shortages in purchasing of equipment, the Voluntary Blood
Donation Recruitment program, and training of medical staff and technicians in non-
project provinces and cities.

The final reallocation of the Project after restructuring is summarized below:




2
  The WHO/Luxembourg TA is a parallel financing of US$3.9 million, whose main objective is to provide
technical support to WB RBTC Project and MOH National Blood Safety Program in regions not covered
by the WB project ­ especially in areas of donor recruitment, national effective transfusion service, quality
management, and rational clinical use of blood. The TA project was signed in July 2004 and it will close
by end of June 2010. Comments from the Technical Advisor to WHO TA project are included in Annex 8
of this ICR.



                                                      6
                            Table 1. Credit Reallocation by Category
           Category             Allocation as         Proposed           % of expenditures to be
                                 per DCAa             allocation                financed
                                (SDRb Mln)            including
                                                    exchange gain
                                                     (SDR Mln)
      (1) Civil work                 6.04                6.363                     90%
      (2) Goods                     10.37               16.607         100% of foreign
                                                                       expenditures, 100% of local
                                                                       expenditures (ex-factory
                                                                       cost), 90% of local
                                                                       expenditure for other items
                                                                       procured locally
      (3) Consultants'              1.22               0.702                      100%
          service
      (4) Training                  3.01               2.336                      100%
      (5) Incremental               7.97               1.712           50% through December
          operating costs                                              2007 and 80% thereafter
      (6) Unallocated                2.19               3.08
          TOTAL                     30.80              30.80
a
    DCA = Development Credit Agreement
b
    SDR = Special Drawing Rights

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was developed based on sound analytical work in health sector by the World
Bank. The designed activities has provided timely and significant support to the
implementation of the National Safe Blood Transfusion Program for the period 2001 ­
2009 while the country's resources were very limited. Project preparation and design has
positive aspects to highlight. These include the following:

      a) The project was developed based on sound sector analytical work which included
         the WB health sector review in 2002 (Growing Healthy: A review of Vietnam's
         Health Sector) and the Vietnam Living Standards Survey 1998. The project was
         aligned with the National Priorities of the Government of Vietnam and with the
         Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which outlined investments in health and
         education as one of the key components in its poverty reduction strategy.

      b) The project provided significant support to the implementation of the National
         Safe Blood Transfusion Program for the period 2001 ­ 2009. While the
         Government budget could only provide US$ 200,000 ­ 350,000 annually for the
         implementation of the National Program in Vietnam (not including project


                                                7
       provinces), it was clear that the project funds, particularly the technical assistance
       brought in, were essential for the implementation of the National Program. The
       project was designed to support and supplement the National Program to achieve
       the national targets.

   c) The project was the first health project supporting a very specific and specialized
      subsector, i.e. blood transfusion, such that not many lessons could be learnt from
      previous projects. However, such a project was viewed as valuable to the health
      sector, which was under developed and much neglected in Vietnam at that time.

   d) The project timely met the rising demand for the control of the HIV/AIDS
      epidemic in Vietnam. Ensuring the quality and safety of blood transfusion has
      effectively contributed to halting one of the three paths of HIV/AIDS
      transmission.

However, the project was rather complex to the current project management capacity of
the implementing agency, thus made it difficult for them to implement. This ICR identifies
some improvement opportunities at design entry. These include the following:

   e) The project was the third health project in Vietnam after the National Health
      Support Project (NHSP) (1995 ­ 2005) and the Population and Family Health
      Project (PFHP) (1997 ­ 2003). The two previous projects focused on basic and
      lower level of health care, while the RBTC Project committed to building
      relatively high-tech and modern facilities meeting international standards. This
      project was probably a bit too complicated technically for the MOH to manage at
      that time, given the weak capacity in the implementation units and lack of
      experience in managing large and complex civil works in the sector.

   f) At the design stage, the Bank and the Government could have done more in
      reducing the complexities of the project design. The mitigation measure to limit
      the project coverage to four sites did not seem to be sufficiently reducing the
      project management challenges.           Postponing the selection of sites and
      resettlement issues to project implementation stage was partly the cause of years
      of delays and slow disbursement in the first three years and definitely a lesson
      learned fully assimilated in future health sector projects in Vietnam.

   g) The project components could have been better structured. Project components
      were set up based on geographical areas which seemed to support administrative
      rather than technical purposes. Each component was for one RBTC with similar
      sub-components and this structure might have made it easier for RBTCs to
      implement and budget their respective activities, but it did not give sufficient
      consideration to easy reporting, monitoring and evaluation of project
      implementation and outcomes of various activities/programs. Components based
      on activities and programs across the RBTCs could be an option for
      consideration, if any follow-up project will be considered.




                                             8
   h) Finally, the Project Management Unit was under the National Institute of
      Hematology and Blood Transfusion which had no previous experience in
      managing any investment projects. Most of the project staff and managers were
      medical doctors or hematologists, with little knowledge or experience in
      managing bidding process or constructions. The need for capacity building to
      manage complex land acquisition, construction, and procurement issues seem to
      be under estimated when the project was designed.

Overall, this ICR found the preparation, and design including quality at entry was
acceptable to both the Government and the Bank.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was, overall, challenging but at the end reached a successful
closure. The project experienced difficulties in finalizing the sites identification,
obtaining land permits and resolving resettlement issues. Unclear national regulations
on blood bank technical specifications, standards, and cost estimates, procurement of
civil works through ICB procedures, change of leadership in four PMUs, and weak
institutional capacity, much of which were not fully anticipated at project design, also
contributed to the very slow implementation and low disbursement in the first three years.
Following is a further discussion of these main implementation challenges:

   a) Land allocation, authorization and clearance were the biggest challenges,
      occurring more or less in all centers, except Hue. This issue are faced by many
      projects in Vietnam and are not specific to RBTC Project. The RBTC in Cho Ray
      hospital was the most difficult one. The MOH encountered difficulties in
      identifying a site for the new RBTC building at project design and preparation
      stage and no decision could be made three years after the Project became
      effective. The site changed four times over three years, partly due to the soaring
      land prices in Vietnam and particularly in HCMC. The MOH was unable to meet
      the costs of resettlement because the Government resettlement price was much
      lower than the growing market price. This finally resulted in cancellation of the
      construction in Cho Ray Hospital and restructuring of the HCMC RBTC
      component. The Hanoi Center was also delayed because the land approval process
      in Hanoi was stopped while Hanoi was going through the planning stage to
      expand the city. The construction in Can Tho could only be started in 2006, after
      almost 4 years of project effectiveness due to land authorization and clearance
      problems.

   b) The project also faced difficulties as a result of the differences between the
      Vietnamese standards and the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP)/international
      standards for blood banks. There was a significant delay in completing the
      construction drawings and the technical specifications of the centers, as these
      were the first modern blood transfusion centers to be built in Vietnam, and there
      were many discussions and debates among various agencies of the Government
      on the materials to be used and the cost estimates for bidding. Government



                                            9
   review and approval of all bidding documents and bid evaluation reports also took
   months and involved multiple agencies and ministries, mainly because the actual
   bid prices were much higher than the estimates.

c) Difficulties in procurement of civil works through ICB procedure contributed to
   the delay of the project implementation. Like other country projects, the project
   implementation staff found it difficult to satisfy both the Bank and the
   Government procurement processes at the same time because of the differences
   between the Bank procurement guidelines and the Government procurement law
   and regulations.

d) Weak institutional capacity was another constraint in project implementation.
   Soon after the project started, there was a change of the project director and high
   turnover of key staff for project management. Significant time had to be spent on
   continued and extensive training of new staff to familiarize them with the Project,
   and the Bank and Government procedures.

e) Lack of full time experienced project management staff: According to
   Government regulations, most of the key project staff positions should be
   occupied by Government staff who could only work part-time for the Project and
   be fully charged with other responsibilities they used to have. For this Project,
   most of the key staff were medical doctors working in very specialized areas.
   They had no previous experience in managing Official Development Assistance
   projects and little knowledge in procurement, financial management or
   construction.

f) Inflation and compensation events: Constructions of RBTCs in Hue and Can Tho
   were almost stopped in 2008 because contractors were affected by high inflation
   in prices of major components of their contracts, such as labor, equipment,
   materials and fuel. All this caused by a global economic crisis of course outside
   the Project's control. The contractors were not willing to complete the
   construction before they could get additional budget from the PMUs. This was a
   country situation, not sector-specific. Many contracts under the Bank-financed
   projects faced similar situations, so the Bank had to issue a Guidance Note on
   Compensation Events and the contractors received compensations after several
   months of delays.

g) Difficulties in finding appropriate and qualified consultants: The project faced
   difficulties in recruiting some specific consultant positions, both local and
   international, due to the specialized nature of the work required and low-cost
   norm set by the Government. There was also no consensus within the
   Government institutions on the Information Technology (IT) system or suitable IT
   modules for the blood transfusion subsector in Vietnam. By the end of the
   project, consultants for the development of the IT system for blood bank
   management could not be recruited and no IT modules could be identified.




                                       10
Given the above implementation challenges, actions taken by the Bank's Project team to
complete the Project were centered on close supervision and monitoring. These critical
and effective actions were taken to speed up the Project's progress in the last few years
before closing. The Project team held regular videoconferences with the PMU in 2005
and 2006 when the project performance rating was downgraded to Unsatisfactory. An
Action Plan to improve the project performance was implemented and monitored jointly
by the Bank team and the MOH leadership. Solutions were timely worked out for any
new issues through videoconferences and during frequent missions and visits to project
sites. The team's extraordinary effort was highly appreciated by the Government and
helped significantly to speed up the project implementation. The team was also
recognized by the WB Country Office as the best practice for project supervision.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project has achieved remarkable results and significant improvement for the blood
transfusion sector in Vietnam, however, if the PDO indicators and Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) had been better formulated and collected at the early stage of the
project design, the M&E implementation would have been done more properly.

There were four PDO indicators identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
however, they were not supported by the country available data collection and reporting
system. In 2004, the PDO indicators were revisited. Two new PDO indicators were
selected and then were used throughout the project implementation.              The original
Performance Indicators were recorded in the DCA, but they did not seem to be quite
relevant and possible for the available data collection and reporting system. The project
developed new KPIs in 2004 and requested all RBTCs to report on them on a quarterly
basis. The updates of the indicators were better measures to emphasize the importance of
the activity under the project. There were three groups of KPIs, including blood use,
blood collection, and training covering most of the project activities. The first KPI reports
were submitted in December 2004 due to technical difficulties such as unfamiliarity of
the local user with the reporting formats, and the new KPI indicators were regularly
collected as required.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Land allocation, authorization and clearance were the biggest challenges of the project,
that resulted in cancellation of the construction and restructuring of the HCMC RBTC
component, and delay the implementation of the project. This project provided a valuable
lesson to future projects that it was very important and necessary strictly follow the Bank
safeguard procedures and policies at project preparation and implementation.

For fiduciary issues, like in other health projects, late approval of government annual
budget allocation and of itemized budgeted expenditure contributed to the delay of
project implementation. Financial management staff turnover was also a difficult issue in
all RPMUs.




                                             11
a) Since a large amount of project funds were earmarked for civil works, attention
   needed to be given to issues of environment and involuntary resettlement. During
   the preparation phase, a set of activities was agreed upon with the Government to
   address the environmental risks related to health waste management. A
   Resettlement Action Plan and Resettlement Policy Framework were also applied
   in project sites.

b) At the designing phase, it was identified that there would be no resettlement or
   land acquisition under the project, and the Resettlement Policy Framework was
   prepared to protect people who could be negatively affected by the physical works
   of the new RBTCs. However, in 2008, in Can Tho RBTC site, one household
   moved back to the site where the main switchboard, transformers, and power
   generator were housed. It took the Local Government and MOH lots of effort to
   resolve the issues with the household; as a results, the construction in Can Tho
   was delayed for several months. The Bank's Social Safeguard Specialist
   reviewed the case to ensure that the issue was resolved according to WB
   guidelines and policies.

c) As mentioned in section 2.2, land allocation, authorization and clearance were the
   biggest challenges of the Project in more or less all the centers, except for Hue
   RBTC when it was situated inside the hospital area . This finally resulted in the
   cancellation of construction in Cho Ray Hospital and restructuring of the HCMC
   RBTC component. Constructions in Hanoi and Can Tho could only be started in
   2006, four years after Project effectiveness. This experience has a valuable lesson
   for future projects: it is fundamental to anticipate and follow the Bank safeguard
   procedures and policies at project preparation and implementation, and anticipate
   context/ institutional risks that may affect these.

d) During the implementation phase, each sub-project developed an Environmental
   Management Plan (EMP) using the Bank's template and based on the real
   situation of each site. The EMPs were accepted by the Bank on November 15,
   2007 and sent to the contractors for implementation

e) The project had regular monitoring and supervision over safeguard issues. It was
   noted that issues of labor safety, site sanitation, and fire prevention were raised by
   the missions and they were timely addressed by the contractors. Safety training
   was provided to the workers, and sanitation facilities were set up at the sites.
   Mitigation measures for dust, noise control, and construction waste were also
   discussed and agreed during the missions.

f) Like in other health projects, late approval of Government annual budget
   allocation and of itemized budgeted expenditures had been an issue in financial
   management and caused delays in procurement, payment to contractors/suppliers,
   and disbursement.




                                         12
   g) High turnover of financial management staff was also an issue in all Regional
      PMUs. During the project implementation, people who attended training during
      project preparation, left for better paid positions, and new staff with no training
      could not manage the work immediately, thus causing frequent delays.

   h) The project had regular audits by an auditing firm. The auditor's opinion on the
      project's consolidated financial statements and individual financial statements of
      RBTCs were unqualified and there was no significant issue on internal controls
      noted in any management letters.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has supported the Government to develop important policies and regulations
for blood transfusion activities to create a sound legal foundation for the sector. The
centralization model on blood transfusion operation applied in the project RBTCs was
well recognized by key international stakeholders and has been replicated for other blood
centers in the country. The project also provided good lesson learnt and experience for
the development of the new National Blood Program in the next 10 years. The detailed is
described bellows.

   a) Legal foundation for blood transfusion activities: Under the project's support, a
      number of regulations have been issued to create a legal foundation for voluntary
      unpaid blood transfusion (VUBT) activities. Examples include the Blood
      Transfusion Regulation, Circular 01/2002/TT-BTC-BYT dated March 12 2003,
      Circular 12/2004/TT-BTC-BYT dated February 25 2004, Circular 40/2007/TT-
      BTC-BYT dated April 23 2007, and Circular 182/2009/TT-BTC dated September
      14 2009, providing guidelines and adjustment of a standard blood unit; the inter-
      ministry Decree 40 between MOH and Ministry of Finance on blood unit
      specifications, the Decision 4578/QD-BYT dated November 20 2009 on revision
      of blood unit price. A number of policies related to blood donation activities,
      such as donors' benefits, standards and procedures for blood transfusion were also
      developed. The establishment of a Safe Blood Transfusion Committee in
      hospitals is expected to be formalized soon to ensure the quality of blood
      transfusion and blood-related disease treatment in the hospitals.

   b) Recognition and replication of the centralization model on blood transfusion
      operation: The advantages of the centralized model have been well recognized by
      key internal stakeholders, i.e., the MOH, hospitals, doctors, and mass
      organizations. The National Blood Program for the period 2011 to 2020, which is
      under development, will have a strategy to establish a Blood Transfusion System
      using a centralized model. According to the draft plan, Hanoi RBTC will be
      upgraded to a national blood transfusion center and eight sub-regional BTCs will
      be established. Three Centers have been formally set up in Hai Phong, Thai
      Nguyen, Thanh Hoa, and two centers, one in Dak Lak and one in Khanh Hoa, will
      be set up next year, using the RBTC model developed under the project. The
      construction of the centers was included in the new National Blood Program and



                                           13
       was expected to be funded by the Government. All centers are under the
       respective provincial hospitals. The qualified blood distribution will be by
       respective regions with no competition among centers or regions, and will ensure
       the blood resources for all hospitals under their coverage.

   c) The development of a new 10-year National Blood Program is underway, taking
      into consideration previous experience and lesson learnt from the first Program.
      The estimated Government budget for the implementation of the new Program is
      about US$ 50 million. Besides the development of the Blood Transfusion
      Network, the National Plan will continue to support and strengthen the First
      National Program's activities, including voluntary blood donation, capacity
      building and policy development. Though the Government budget is very
      limited, having a comprehensive and strategic plan will help the Government to
      better mobilize other resources for the implementation.

   d) Sustainable networking and cooperation with related stakeholders: With the
      support of the project, the RBTCs have established a good network of
      international partners which is one of the key successful outcomes of the project.
      International professional training, foreign language training, knowledge and
      experience sharing are good long-term and sustainable contributions of the project
      to the Blood Transfusion Sector in Vietnam.

The biggest challenge post-completion of the project is how to ensure that RBTCs could
get sufficient financial resources for their operation at the expected standard. Budgets to
maintain other project activities ­ such as BCC campaign to mobilize blood donations,
training for voluntary educators, continuous training for health staff on blood
transfusion, etc are also concerns for future RBTC operation. Quality assurance of the
Blood center operation is also a concern.

   e) The biggest post-completion challenge of the Project is how to ensure that RBTCs
      can get sufficient financial resources for their operation at the expected standard.
      The high maintenance cost for the new centers was anticipated and intended to be
      covered by the Government budget. However, the issuance of the Government
      policy on financial autonomy of health facilities made the situation difficult.
      According to the Decree 43, the Hanoi and Can Tho RBTCs are financially fully
      autonomous, and in theory, the two Centers need to balance their income and
      expenditures themselves.        Can Tho RBTC can only provide blood for
      transfusions, unlike the Hanoi Center, it does not have patient treatment facilities
      or doctors for treatment. Its income from blood transfusion is limited as the price
      for a blood unit is regulated by the Government and is below the real cost or the
      global price. A study on the actual cost of a blood unit and the recurrent cost for
      RBTC in Hanoi was launched using the funds from the WHO TA project. The
      study will provide valuable information to MOH budgeting purposes as well as to
      RBTCs for business planning. It is expected that the second 10-year Nation Plan
      for Blood Transfusion is likely to attract increasing attention from the




                                            14
       Government leadership, and would help to deal with the financial constrain in the
       medium and long-terms.

   f) The legal status of the RBTCs: All legal documents solidifying the Center's status
      have been issued and recognized by related stakeholders. Currently, the RBTCs
      are administratively dependent and under the management of hospitals (Directors
      of RBTCs must be members of the Hospital Management Board). As it was
      recommended by the WHO TA consultants, the hematology and blood transfusion
      departments should be separated, as the hematology department is one of the
      users of blood transfusion and the blood transfusion department is considered a
      manufacturing unit requiring strict implementation of good manufacturing
      practices and quality systems. The advice was well taken by the MOH and
      managers of RBTCs. However, the separation of these departments may not be
      possible under the current situation in Vietnam. It requires sufficient time and
      resources for preparation and separation. The limited human and financial
      resources, infrastructure, and facilities are not supportive of the independent
      model.

   g) There is a concern on the sustainability for the mobilization of blood donation
      which is critical for RBTC operations. The project supports the collaboration
      between RBTCs and mass organizations, such as Red Cross, Women's Union,
      Youth Unions, Student Unions, etc., to get their assistance in mobilizing blood
      donors. Such cooperation will continue to be the key to the continuity of the
      Center's operation. However, there needs to be good policy and institutional
      support for this collaboration.

   h) Quality assurance is also a very important issue for the performance of the
      RBTCs. Since almost all equipment for the RBTCs is relatively modern
      equipment, training from suppliers to staff in RBTCs is critical and should be
      strengthened. Technical audits for the RBTCs should be conducted more
      frequently to ensure the quality of Center services. Under the WHO TA project, a
      quality assessment of all RBTCs was conducted and a plan for improvement is
      under preparation. The results and recommendations will help the RBTCs on
      their implementation of the quality assurance program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project was highly relevant at the time of its design and still remains so at the time of
this ICR, primarily because it addressed the urgent needs of the country in a very specific
and important area. The project provided critical support to the development and
strengthening of the system of blood transfusion in Vietnam. At the time of the project
design, modern health facilities meeting international standards with Government
investment were rare or did not exist in Vietnam. The project objectives reflected the
strategic and comprehensive development plan of the health sector in Vietnam. A



                                             15
rationale for investing in safe blood in a relatively poor country like Vietnam was also to
help the Government cushion the effects of the shock of the HIV/AIDS epidemic and
maintain an essential level of care.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall rating: Satisfactory

The objective of the Project was to secure the health benefits of safe blood transfusions
for the population covered by hospitals served by RBTCs. This was achieved by
providing financial and technical support to the development and initial operation of the
RBTCs. Achievement of the specific project development objectives is rated
`Satisfactory' overall.

The PDO indicators were fully achieved and in fact, they exceeded the targets in most of
the RBTCs. According to the original objectives, by the end of the project in 2009, the
rate of blood units collected from voluntary blood donor would be 70%. However, the
project had reached the target indicator three years before the closing date. The quantity
of blood units collected also almost achieved the target (96%).

Following is a detailed analysis of outcomes achieved:

Voluntary Donation Recruitment Program
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Project included the following activities: public education campaigns on voluntary
blood donation, organizing blood collection sessions involving first time voluntary
unpaid donors, focused campaigns to recruit and retain repeat donors from among those
donors that meet the screening standard for low risk donors, counseling services for blood
donors, management and administration of the voluntary unpaid donation program,
including building up and maintenance of registries of individual donor's record.

The project over-achieved the target of blood unit collection per year as well as the
percentage share of voluntary blood donations. The behavior change communication
activities under different forms and channels were well performed and received great
community attention. The rate of voluntary blood donations in the project-covered areas
was significantly higher than the country average, which is reflected in the table below:




                                            16
Table 2. Rate of Voluntary Blood Donations in project-covered areas vs. country average
                                   (2002 ­ 2009)
                  Year         Country average       Project covered areas
                                     (%)                      (%)
              2002                    25                      NA
              2006                    59                       70
              2007                  70.5                      76.7
              2008                  72.5                      86.9
              2009                  74.3                      93.6

There were many innovative activities to promote voluntary unpaid blood donation
(VUBD) in all RBTCs, such as organizing specific occasions and big campaigns on April
7 (National Blood Donation Day), June 14 (World Blood Donation Day). Examples
include Walking, Pink Spring Festival in 2008, 2009, Humanity Festival, Journey of
Hearts, Talk Shows on Television, Live Q & A on Blood Donation, Competition for
Composing Song on VUBD, Art Performance on VUBD, Red Sunday, etc. The
campaigns and activities have raised the community awareness on VUBD and received
strong social support. Thousands of people have been involved in these activities. In the
baseline survey in 1999, only 61% of the respondents heard or knew about VUBD. By
the end of the project, from a similar survey, 97.6% of the sample stated that they already
knew about the program. Other indicators in the survey of VUBD (minimum age/weight
for VUBD, negative impact on health, can HIV carriers donate, etc.) were significantly
improved by the end of the project. 35% of the respondents themselves had donated
blood while this figure in the 1999 survey was only 4.8%.

The Project also provided Training of Trainers courses for social marketers of VUBD.
They are valuable resources for mobilizing social involvement on VUBD program in the
country and could contribute significantly to sustain the VUBD program in the future.

Blood Bank Operation Program
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This sub-component included the following activities: collection of blood from donors;
labeling, transporting and handling of collected blood; testing of collected blood and
disposal of infected blood; processing, storage and distribution of blood; management of
the blood service records and information system; and quality assurance management.

This sub-component was rated Moderately Satisfactory due to the fact that one activity -
the development of Information System for RBTCs - could not be implemented.
Difficulties in finding qualified consultants in this area, underestimation of the scope of
work, and no consensus on the design and the modules were among the factors that
contributed to its failure. The CPMU had visited several countries to learn from their
experiences on the Blood Bank IT system, but they could not agree on the appropriate
model for Vietnam. The Quality Assurance Management program could have been
implemented more effectively. All RBTCs have developed their quality management
procedures, but implementation and enforcement are uneven among the RBTCs.


                                            17
Shortage of staff in charge of quality management and lack of support facilities are some
of the major constraints (1 to 3 staff per Center). Most of the buildings have been put in
use recently, and the Standard of Procedure (SOP) in each department is not fully
developed yet.

The Project made significant contributions in establishing completely new facilities and
well equipped RBTCs in Hanoi, Hue, and Can Tho, thereby the quality of blood
collection, processing and distribution of blood and blood components has been
significantly improved.

The blood collection increased by 2 to 3 times compared to the baseline value. The blood
distribution coverage increased beyond the project target, from 22 provinces to 33
provinces by end of the project. The capacity of the RBTCs in blood component
production was also significantly improved. Except Hanoi Center, very low percentage
(0 ­ 2%) of the collected blood could be processed in 2002. By 2009, all Centers could
process almost all blood collected.

Effective Clinical Use of Blood Program
Rating: Satisfactory

This sub-component was designed to improve the clinical use of blood in hospitals
through staff training and management capacity strengthening.

With the Project's support, safe blood transfusion practice improved. The Hospital Safe
Blood Transfusion Committees have been set up in hospitals in project provinces.
Though their roles have not been as strong as expected, this has been a good model for
implementation of Safe Blood Transfusion Policy in hospitals in Vietnam. More than
16,000 clinicians received training from the Project on different topics, such as correct
indications and effective clinical use of blood and blood transfusion products, safe
determination of blood type and blood transfusion process, as well as management of side
effects of blood transfusion. Professional communication between hospitals and RBTCs
also improved.

Staff Development
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Capacity building was another great achievement of the Project. Various training
programs were implemented to achieve effective clinical use of blood and blood
components, quality management of RBTCs and new staff development. The Project
also extended training programs to Area Blood Centers and some hospitals beyond the
project covered provinces.




                                           18
 Table 3. Number of staff who received domestic training under the project, 2003 - 2009
                                            Staff in     Staff in       Total
                                            project       other        number
                                           provinces    provinces
       1. Blood bank staff                           50         25            75
       2. Blood bank technicians                 1,284        322          1,606
       3. Clinical doctor                      12,851       3,212         16,063
       4. Nurses                               14,740       3,684         18,424
       5. Quality assurance staff                    72         18            90
       6. Project staff                            125            0          125
       7. Numbers of Workshops and                 973        202          1,175
       seminars

          Table 4. Number of staff who received training abroad, 2003 - 2009
                                                   Number of Number of
                                                    courses        staff
           1. Manager                                  23           202
           2. Technical staff                          16           133
           3. Workshops, seminars                       4            21
           Total                                       43           356

Policy Development
Rating: Satisfactory

The project supported policy formulation and promulgation to create a strong legal
foundation for the development of blood transfusion at national level. During project
implementation, a number of critical policy documents were developed. Examples
include the Blood Transfusion Regulation, Circular 01/2002/TT-BTC-BYT dated March
12 2003, Circular 12/2004/TT-BTC-BYT dated February 25 2004, Circular 40/2007/TT-
BTC-BYT dated April 23 2007, and Circular 182/2009/TT-BTC dated September 14
2009, providing guidelines and adjustment of a standard blood unit; the inter-ministry
Decree 40 between MOH and Ministry of Finance on blood unit specifications, the
Decision 4578/QD-BYT dated November 20 2009 on revision of blood unit price. A
number of policies related to blood donation activities, such as donors' benefits,
standards and procedures for blood transfusion are being developed. The Safe Blood
Transfusion Committee in hospitals is expected to work more actively in all hospitals to
ensure the quality of blood transfusion and blood-related disease treatment in hospitals.
The project provided substantial support to the implementation of the National Program
on Safe Blood Transfusion in the period 2001 - 2009. The project's support and activities
were in line with the National Program activities. While the total Government budget for
the National Program had been limited (about US$ 2 million in the past 9 years) the
project support was considered to be a significant resource for the country to implement
the National Program.




                                           19
3.3 Efficiency

No data was collected on this at appraisal or during the project, hence efficiency cannot
be evaluated. However, an Economic Analysis was done concluding that both economic
and financial seem to be sound. First, the centralized transfusion system with a few
regional centers proves to be the most suitable model for Vietnam as with many
developing countries. Second, the target 300,000 blood units every year seem to be an
appropriate and reachable target for the four Centers. By the end of the project, more
than 260,000 blood units were collected from the four Centers. Third, the total project
investment of US$38 million corresponds to the suggested aggregated investment of
US$30 ­ US$50 million. Although the investment in infrastructure was much higher,
investments in recurrent costs were matched up by Government budget.

(See Economic and Financial Analysis in Annex 3)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This ICR rates the Overall Outcome Rating as Moderately Satisfactory in consideration
of design difficulties and implementation delays. However, the project impact/results are
of the highest importance and should be sustained.

The PDOs were relevant to the health sector context in Vietnam, addressing the urgent
needs to develop and strengthen the system of blood transfusion in Vietnam while at the
same time helping fight the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Project outcomes were fully
reached. The project was recognized by the MOH as among the most successfully
implemented projects in the health sector.

The ICR team also followed the Joint Guidelines for use in ICR Report and IEG
Assessment to rate the project overall outcomes. The project was formally restructured
without changing the PDO but one key sub-component with substantial investment was
cancelled (The HCMC RBTC building). Because of this, the team rated the project before
the restructuring as Unsatisfactory with the disbursement rate of 28%. After restructuring,
the project was rated Satisfactory with the final disbursement rate was 75%. To balance
the two ratings, the final rating was calculated using the formula: (2 x 0.28) + (5 x 0.75) =
4.31, which is equivalent to the Rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project covered four main regions of Vietnam and brought benefits to a large number
of provinces, including very poor provinces. The investments under the project
contributed to the reduction of disparities in the quality of blood distribution and
utilization between the rich and the poor provinces. The project made an important
contribution to halting the HIV/AIDS transmission in Vietnam by assuring safer blood



                                             20
transfusions. The strong development of the Voluntary Blood Donation Recruitment
Program under the project was a great social contribution to the community, raising good
knowledge, attitude and practices of the community on blood donation. In addition, by
supporting the safe blood transfusion system, common complications and severe blood
related diseases affecting women and children were better treated. Overall, the population
benefits from available safe blood.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project provided comprehensive support to the blood transfusion sector in Vietnam,
including policy framework, infrastructure, equipment, capacity building, and public
behavior change communication. These were important foundations for the development
of the sector and sustainable institutional development for Vietnam. In hospitals
performance, the project supported to train a large number of clinicians on effective
clinical use of blood and blood transfusion products thus contributed to improve good
clinical practice significantly.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Beneficiary Survey

A final evaluation of the Regional Blood Transfusion Center project was carried out three
months before the project was formally closed. The external evaluation team from
Transformation and Change Management Consulting Company Ltd and Rural
Development Services Center (T&C Consulting) conducted the evaluation. The
assessment was carried out at all the four RBTCs, and eight hospitals in the coverage of
RBTCs. The objectives of the evaluation were to assess the: (1) results of project
implementation against the project development objective; (2) economic and social
effectiveness of the project including expertise involvement; (3) demand for safe blood
transfusion including demand of area hospitals for blood and blood product volume, and
the competency of the provision by RBTC; and (4) awareness and understanding of the
community in project areas including voluntary blood donation activities.

(See Annex 5 for more details on the Survey Results)

Stakeholder Workshop
A Stakeholder Workshop was organized in September 2009 with participants from both
Government side (MOH and other related Ministries), and donor side (the WB task team,
WHO consultants, Luxemburg representatives). Vice Minister Tran Chi Liem chaired
the workshop. The WS has reviewed the project achievements and lessons learned, and
provided recommendation for the next steps.

(See Annex 6 for more details on the summary of the WS)


                                           21
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The overall risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. There is a degree of risk that
the improvements in blood donation, collection, manufacture, distribution and utilization,
in both quantity and quality might be not sustained at the expected levels. This is due to
the risk that infrastructure and equipment investments will deteriorate faster from a lack
of adequate maintenance. Rigorous maintenance and development of blood donation
communication campaigns without project funding could be a challenge, which must be
met in order to ensure a sufficiently good quality blood resources for the RBTCs .

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The strength of the Bank's approach in the design of the project include: (1) a design that
is built on and is in line with the Government's strategy and with the objectives of the
CAS; (2) a design that was technically relevant and well-informed by sector work such as
"Growing Healthy: A Review of Vietnam's Health Sector", 1998; (3) high level dialogue,
engagement and ownership of the Government; and (4) the identification of key activities
that capture priority areas affecting the health sector in Vietnam.

There were some weaknesses in the preparation that may have had an impact on the
quality at entry: (1) the design appeared quite complex for MOH and PMUs with limited
experience managing Bank projects; (2) the design was a bit too ambitious with
comprehensive components, covering issues ranging from construction to high-tech
equipment and staff training while the current system was not conducive to such a design;
(3) the M&E framework was not well formulated at the beginning of the project
implementation, which caused difficulties in evaluating the project results against clear
targets.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The task team conducted frequent and technically sound supervision missions, especially
during the period when the Project was rated Unsatisfactory. The team had regular
videoconference meetings with PMUs to discuss emerging issues, and to agree on
comprehensive and necessary action plans to speed up Project implementation. The task
team collaborated closely with other donors such as the WHO on technical issues and
consulted regularly with MOH and other involved Government agencies. The task team
should be recognized for its efforts and flexibility in accommodating the challenges faced
by the client and for the proactive manner it sought to deal with issues whenever these




                                            22
arose. In addition, there was good continuity in task team leaders and task team
members, which helped move the Project forward.

Project documentation: the project supervisions were well documented in mission Aide
Memoires and ISR reports. Sufficient analysis on project status and good justification for
project rating clearly reflected implementation progress to the manager and to the
evaluation team.

However, there were several issues that need to be noted with respect to project
supervision, including:

Monitoring and Evaluation: the original PDOs and key project performance indicators
could have been designed more reasonably and should be based on the country available
data collection and reporting system. At the beginning of the Project, no baseline data
was collected for monitoring performance indicators partly due to the difficulties of the
designed indicators. By June 2004, the baseline performance indicators were prepared by
the CPMU, but they were incomplete and inaccurate due to the permission of payment to
voluntary blood donors. Late submission of a complete set of baseline indicators was one
reason why the project was rated Unsatisfactory in October 2003. More attention should
have been paid to data in order to strengthen and integrate data collection and to
monitoring the performance outcomes rather than focusing on the supply of project
inputs.

Procurement: the Project faced many challenges related to procurement. This was the
major source of problems and bottlenecks in implementation. This situation has
happened with other health projects in the country as well. Procuring high-technology
and specialized equipment for the blood centers was a challenge to both the Government
and the Bank task team. Finding qualified consultants in this specialized field of
expertise was difficult for both sides.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. Given the context at the time of
project preparation, the components addressed key problems in the health sector and
comprehensively supported the development of an important but somewhat neglected
sector in Vietnam. The Project gave significant support to the blood transfusion sector
and brought RBTCs up to international standards. The project opened a new stage of the
field of hematology and blood transfusion in Vietnam. It established a strong base for the
new centralized model of safe blood transfusion.

The Project achieved good outcomes and some indicators were reached even before the
end of the project. The project implementation was adaptive to the significant capacity
constraints in the MOH, and capacity was built in the process, in technical areas and on
general management.




                                           23
The Bank's team conducted a close and frequent supervision of the Project. Different
measures were flexibly applied to deal with difficulties and obstacles as they arose and
timely support to the CPMUs and MOH was provided. Daily follow-up with the CPMU,
timely problem solving, frequent videoconferences and supervision missions, during the
period when the project was rated Unsatisfactory significantly improved the Project's
performance and saved the Project from cancellation.

However, some issues need to be considered for project implementation. The design was
too complex for the MOH with limited capacity and experience with a lending project,
M&E systems were not well designed, and performance indicators were not properly
applied at the beginning of the project implementation. Some outstanding issues,
although somewhat out of the project's control (like land authorization and compensation
and price inflation) contributed to delays in project implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government demonstrated commitment towards achieving the objectives of the
project and the level of dialogue and engagement was encouraging. A high level of
policy dialogue was maintained throughout the project. A Deputy Minister was assigned
to be in charge of overall project implementation. A CPMU was established with
members from the NIHBT who were direct beneficiaries of the project, and RPMU
members who were staff of the Regional/ Provincial Blood Transfusion Centers. There
were both pros and cons into this arrangement. On the one hand, the PMU staff had a
strong commitment and connection to the project activities, especially on professional
and technical issues. But on the other hand, the key members of the PMUs were medical
staff who had very limited capacity related to the management of big investment projects,
especially on issues of procurement, disbursement and construction. Procurement and
disbursement were very slow.

Although the Project was the third health project of the MOH, the investment was on
high-tech and specialized construction and equipment, which made the approval process
in the Bank and the Government very slow. The Ministry of Health was not familiar with
procedures of the Bank, and had some difficulty adapting to Bank requirements, which
were sometimes quite different from the Government requirements that they are used to.
The MOH and PMU were also unfamiliar with land clearance and authorization
procedures, which caused delays in project implementation and even the cancellation of
the HCMC RBTC construction.

Compensation events were also a major problem faced during the construction of RBTCs
under the economic crisis in 2007 and 2008. Unfamiliarity with both Government and
the Bank compensation guidelines and policies by the MOH and respective PMUs caused
significant delays in RBTCs' construction, especially in Hue and Can Tho.




                                           24
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

At the initial stage, implementation was very slow. Trained staff left the Project when it
had just started, and management capacity was weak. Since the Government policy
requires civil servants to hold key positions within the PMU, project members were
burdened with other job responsibilities and found it difficult to devote sufficient time to
project implementation. Later, the situation was getting better with efforts from the
PMUs by recruiting more staff and consultants as well as providing sufficient training to
them.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall rating is moderately satisfactory because of the reasons given above. The
Government showed commitment throughout project implementation and managed to
implement the project despite the lack of familiarity with the World Bank's procedures.
However, some constraints remained such as availability of qualified full time staff to
work for the Project, and slow procurement/disbursement approval procedures at the
MOH. The procurement and disbursement procedures were not always completed in a
timely manner. This delay also happened in other health projects, but the implementing
agencies could have been more responsive, collaborative and proactive to avoid the
delays and procurement issues that plagued this project.

6. Lessons Learned

This project brought important lessons learned, including:

   ·   For project supported civil work, it is essential to obtain land clearance of the
       construction site before the project starts.
       The Project provided a good lesson on why it is important to have a well prepared
       construction site before approval. It required a lot of efforts to get through
       Government procedures to deal with land clearance and authorization. Bank
       policy on social safeguards should be strictly followed during project preparation
       and implementation.

   ·   Project management capacity, especially procurement capacity and processes
       from the Government side need to be strengthen.
       This is a common issue of the Bank investment projects in Vietnam. Providing
       continuous training to staff, assigning full time staff working for the project, and
       improving procurement approval process, should receive all attention from the
       Government.

   ·   Results framework need to be carefully designed and can help operation.
       The M&E framework of the project could have been better designed. The
       indicators should be more realistic and supported by the current Government data


                                            25
       collection and reporting system. The well defined project targets at the design
       stage would help to ensure adequate monitoring and evaluation of the project
       performance.
   ·   Improving project management mechanisms (aid alignment and
       harmonization)
       Since there are many active development partners working in health sector in
       Vietnam, it is very important to set up a close working relationship among donors
       to ensure effectiveness of the donor support to the country.

   ·   Consistency with and support to Government strategy is a key factor for
       successful programs.
       The project provided a very good example of the close relationship with and
       support to the implementation of the National Program. The project activities
       were designed very much in line with the Government priorities so that project
       outcomes directly contributed to the improvement of the Government system.

   ·   Flexibility during implementation is important.
       Especially in a country as dynamic as Vietnam, it was important to adopt a
       flexible approach to the Project to be able to respond to the important needs of the
       client when needed and where they were consistent with the key development
       objective of the project. Project design should be less complex to facilitate
       implementation. Flexible and in time solutions to tackle emergent issues and
       difficulties during the implementation are essential to make the project move.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

This is among the most successfully implemented projects in the health sector, meeting
almost all project's objectives and indicators within the defined project time-life. The
project has greatly improved safe blood supplies and transfusion in Vietnam, better meet
the huge blood transfusion demand of the country. Due to better blood supply and
transfusion, many lives have been saved, and new high medical technologies have been
applied, e.g. organs transplant, heart operations etc.

Four regional blood transfusion centers built with the project support are very important
pillars for further development of blood transfusion in Vietnam, expanding to other
provinces of the country in the coming years. The project has also greatly supported
human resource development for blood transfusion in Vietnam with adequate short-term
and long-term training programs.

In addition, the project has produced a team of project management staff with good
qualification and rich experience in managing a WB-funded project, which are very
useful for the MOH and other projects to hire.




                                           26
Through this project, some lessons have been learnt for the MOH. Firstly, the country
ownership in project design (centralized rather than decentralized blood transfusion
system) has led to the success and right direction of blood transfusion in the world.
Sufficiency of skillful staff is very important for project implementation. For
construction, readiness of "clean land" is very important to speed-up project
implementation.

During project life, the project met many difficulties. With active PMUs and close
collaboration between PMUs, MOH and its functional departments, concerned ministries
and the World Bank, most of the constraints and difficulties have been timely addressed,
leading to good implementation of the project. Appropriate fund reallocation and project
restructuring may take time, but were very useful to improved project appropriateness
and effectiveness.

Good international and local consultants have also significantly contributed to the success
of the project.

(b) Co-financiers

There was no co-financier. WHO/Luxemberg Technical Assistance (TA) provided
parallel financing. Main objective of the project is to provide technical support to WB
RBTC Project and MOH National Blood Safety Program, and to provide technical
support to regions not covered by the WB project ­ especially in areas of donor
recruitment, national effective transfusion service, quality management and rational
clinical use. The TA project was signed in July 2004 and is expected to be closed by June
2010.

(See Annex 8 for detailed comments by the WHO TA project advisor)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                            27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                    Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                                                                    Percentage of
          Components              Estimate (SDR Estimate (SDR
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                     millions)     millions)
 1. Development of Hanoi RBTC              8.56           5.59                              65.33
 2. Development of Hue RBTC                5.40           2.93                              54.26
 3. Development of Ho Chi Minh
                                           6.32           0.47                              7.44
City RBTC
 4. Development of Can Tho
                                           5.38           3.07                              57.06
RBTC
 5. National Support and Capacity
                                           1.77          10.99                           620.90
Building
            Total Baseline Cost           27.43          23.05                              84.03
Physical Contingencies
                                                      2.16                 0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                      1.21                 0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs                     30.80                23.05             74.84
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                 0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00                 0.00              0.00
     Total Financing Required                        30.80                23.05             74.84

    A Credit Amendment of March 7, 2008 reallocated the costs among component categories.



(b) Financing
                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of          Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
              Source of Funds
                                               Cofinancing         (SDR         (SDR       Appraisal
                                                                  millions)    millions)
Borrower                                                       6.03         5.22         86.57
International Development
                                                               24.77            23.053              93.06
Association (IDA)




3
    This is the final disbursed amount.




                                                        28
Annex 2. Outputs by (Component) Performance Indicators

 Performance Indicator        Expected Outputs       Actually Delivered         Remarks
                             (from PAD/original          Outputs
                               Implementation
                                    Plan)
Voluntary Donation
Share of blood collected    70 ­ 100%              70% (in 2006), 93.6% (in
from voluntary donors                              the first 8 months 2009)
Share of blood collected    50 ­ 60%               Approximately 25% in
from repeated donors                               Hanoi RBTC, Hue: 30%,
                                                   Choray: 50%, Can Tho:
                                                   20% ; Total: 31%
Share of blood from first     Low as possible      Hanoi: 10%; Hue 15%;
time voluntary donors                              Choray: 6%; Can Tho:
rejected after screening                           12%; Total: 11%
Share of voluntary donors     Low as possible      0%
not accepted for drawing
blood
Quality of Blood Component Production
Compliance with Council of Fully compliant         Fully compliant
Europe standards for GMP
Coverage of blood service
Hospital RBTC service area 100%                    100%
provided with blood
products
Clinicians participating in   100% coverage with   100%
hospitals in service area     70% retaining key
provided with training on     messages
WHO Guidelines on the
Clinical Use of Blood
Hospital with active                               100%
transfusion committees
Clinical Impact of Blood
Quantity of blood products    100%                 90%
for hemophiliacs
Blood needs of hospitals in 100%                   90%
service areas met with
RBTC blood products
Incidence of blood            Low as possible      No survey                  Not
transfusion reactions in                                                      applicable
hospitals within RBTC
service area
Incidence of blood            Low as possible      No survey                  Not
transmitted infections in                                                     applicable
hospitals within service area




                                            29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

During appraisal, an economic and financial analysis was conducted. Three main
questions were generated from the economic analysis: (1) What is the most cost­effective
way to increase the total quantity of safe blood available to hospitals? (2) given the
answer to the first question, what level of increase in quantity of safe blood is
economically justifiable?; and (3) given the answer to the second question, what level of
investment and recurrent cost expenditure is economically justifiable?

Both economic and financial analyses seem to be sound. First, the centralized transfusion
system with few Regional Centers prove to be the most suitable model for Vietnam as
with many developing countries. Second, the target 300,000 blood units every year
seems to be an appropriate and reachable target for the four Centers. By the end of the
project, more than 260,000 blood units were collected from the four Centers. Third, the
total project investment of US$ 38 million corresponds to the suggested aggregated
investment of US$ 30 ­ 50 million. At appraisal, although the investment in
infrastructure was much higher, investments in recurrent costs were matched up by
Government budget.

At appraisal, it was determined that the benefits of large upfront investments to improve
blood safety would be maximized by expanding output in only those blood centers with
the greatest potential of producing and utilizing the highest volume of safe blood
services. Thus, the Project was designed to expand output in four strategically located
blood banks with the highest current output and the greatest existing technical capacity.
To fully utilize the increased output of these selected blood banks, however, it was
necessary to distribute their safe blood output beyond their respective base hospitals,
hence the need for them to operate as regional blood transfusion centers. These
assumptions were maintained.

From a financial perspective, the project was designed to finance a five-year slice of the
total operations of four regional blood centers. Prior to the project, the Government
operated blood banks in the four project sites. However, the technical quality and
quantity of outputs of these blood centers were low relative to the levels required for
meeting the project's objectives. Throughout project implementation, all blood centers
are to be upgraded to reach much higher standards of blood safety. The financial costs at
the time of appraisal were to cover both the investment and recurrent costs of the RBTCs
operating at their expected levels of output for the duration of the project. However,
after the MTR, the Government decided not to use the Credit for financing recurrent
costs of the RBTCs (blood bags, reagents, etc), because of the concerns on the shortage
of funds for construction and equipment. Instead, the recurrent costs of the blood centers
have been financed through the Government budget. The Credit funds still cover part of
the incremental operating cost of the PMU and RPMUs, as well as the costs for voluntary
donation recruitment program.




                                           30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                         Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
L. Richard Meyers         Senior Operations Officer           EASHD Team Lead
                          Procurement Accredited Operations
Carol H.L. Chen Ball                                          EASHD
                          Officer
Nguyen Thi Mai            Operations Officer                  EASHD
                          Sr. Financial Management
Behdad M.H. Nowroozi
                          Specialist
                          Sr. Financial Management
Omowunmi Ladipo
                          Specialist
Hung Kim Phung            Sr. Disbursement Officer
Le Viet Hung              Finance Management Officer
Nguyen Hoi-Chan           Senior Counsel
Rosario Aristorenas       Program Assistant
Nguyen Hoai Linh          Team Assistant
Nguyen Quynh Nga          Team Assistant
                          Lead Public Health Specialist (Peer
Miriam Claeson
                          Reviewer)
                          Lead Public Health Specialist (Peer
Salim J. Habayeb
                          Reviewer)
                          Consultant ­ Health Economics/
Mario Taguiwalo
                          Management
Brian Mc Clelland         Consultant ­ Blood Transfusion
Supervision/ICR
Lingzhi Xu                Senior Operations Officer        EASHD Team Lead
Huong Lan Dao             Health Specialist                EASHD
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo     Senior Procurement Specialist    EAPPR
Alan Brunton Coleman      Consultant                       EASPR
Quyen Do Duong            Finance Analyst                  CTRDM
Feng Gao                  Consultant                       EASHD
Dennis Geoffrey Martin    Consultant                       EASHD
Thao Thi Phuong Nguyen    Program Assistant                EACVF
Mai Thi Nguyen            Senior Operations Officer        EASHH
Trang Phuong Thi Nguyen   E T Consultant                   EASVS
Hoa Thi Mong Pham         Senior Social Development Spec   EASVS
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan       Financial Management Specialis   EAPFM
Thong Quang Tran          Financial Management Specialis   EAPCO
Nga Quynh Nguyen          Program Assistant                EACVF
Cesar Palma Banzon        ET Temporary                     EASHD
Gordon Stuart Whyte       Consultant                       EASHD



                                         31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                      37                       135.72
  FY02                                      41                       139.17
  FY03                                       4                         1.65
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            82                       276.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                     2                          29.42
  FY03                                    20                          65.79
  FY04                                    20                          59.81
  FY05                                    22                          84.84
  FY06                                    29                         135.23
  FY07                                    25                          83.64
  FY08                                    21                          97.48
  FY09                                    21                           0.00
                          Total:         160                         556.21




                                       32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A final evaluation of the Regional Blood Transfusion Center project was carried out three
months before the project was formally closed. The external evaluation team from
Transformation and Change Management Consulting Company Ltd and Rural
Development Services Center (T&C Consulting) conducted the evaluation. The
objectives of the evaluation were to assess the: (1) results of project implementation
against the project development objective; (2) economic and social effectiveness of the
project including expertise involvement; (3) demand for safe blood transfusion including
demand of area hospitals for blood and blood product volume, and the competency of the
provision by RBTC; and (4) awareness and understanding of the community in project
areas including voluntary blood donation activities.

The assessment was carried out at all the four RBTCs, and at eight hospitals in the
coverage of RBTCs. Different methods of data collection were employed, including
qualitative in-depth interviews, semi-structured focus group discussions, structured
interviews, and secondary data analysis from available project data and reports. A
community survey was also conducted in all four areas: Hanoi, Hue, Ho Chi Minh City
and Can Tho, and included a total of 858 participants. Among them, 72% were students
and the rest were household respondents. The main findings from the evaluation are
summarized below.

Success of the project:
           · Success of communication and advocacy program on voluntary
               unremunerated donation: "change blood resources". In 2008, more than
               72% of blood volume came from voluntary unpaid donors. The project
               has proved the remarkable effectiveness of its advocacy and blood
               donation campaign and its impact on community and residents. A large
               number of training courses was conducted for volunteers and educators at
               all levels of admission.
           · Success of selection and training for staff with a high level of skills and
               experience. Training courses, domestic and international, short and long-
               term, have been conducted. Changes in knowledge and skills of staff
               played a critical part in improving diagnosis and proper use of blood and
               blood products in clinical practice.
           · Success of establishment and construction of new facilities including three
               Centers, blood banks, and equipment supplies. They all were critical for
               the working environment, space for processing and storage, and new
               machine system to assure quality for the whole process of safe blood
               donation and transfusion.
           · Success of provision of blood and blood components in both quantity and
               quality to meet the demand of regional hospitals. The original objective
               of the project was to provide blood for 22 provinces. By 2009, the
               coverage of the project had also exceeded the target. The project currently



                                           33
              provides blood products to 32 provinces totally and partially to five
              provinces.
          ·   Organizational system has changed in quality. Training workshops in
              policies and regulations of blood donation were organized at both national
              and provincial levels.
          ·   Quality of management has improved. Centers have regulations and
              policies describing duties and functions, and requiring correct compliance.
              RBTCs now have groups of staff with rich experience in project
              management. External quality control (testing from laboratories in other
              countries, e.g Singapore) helped build standardized processes. All of the
              Regional Centers have developed their quality management procedures.
              Most of the centers have been put in use recently therefore, the SOP was
              established in each departments (mobilizing, screening, producing,
              storage, and distribution).
          ·   Success on international collaboration in research and relationships with
              regional and developed countries. All regional centers have more
              international partners since the project started. Exchange programs and
              collaboration in research and management have been conducted,
              contributing to quality management, building standard processes, and
              evaluation methods. Investment for research has proven to be a good way
              to upgrade the centers to a regional level. Participation in international
              conferences and results from research has significantly strengthened
              Vietnam's capacity to practice safe blood transfusions.

Challenges and existing concerns:
          · Preparation phase of any future project should pay more attention in
              advance to land clearance, resettlement or compensation of households
              for construction.
          · Ensuring the sustainability of blood donors is very critical. In some sites,
              blood and blood product provision has not met the demand, especially
              during summer or during the Tet festivities.
          · Salary and benefits for project staff should be seriously taken into
              account, especially for provincial centers as Hue or Can Tho. The Centers
              will need more high quality consultants for expansion of the project.
          · Price of blood should be changed to match current prices and to cover
              other expenses. Maintenance of voluntary blood resources after the
              project is questionable. The Government should continue to support the
              budget, especially focusing on continuing communication and advocacy
              programs.
          · Close monitoring and supervision of the implementation of the centers
              should be regularly conducted to ensure the good performance of centers
              and quality management.
          · Legal documentations and framework for blood donation for voluntary
              unpaid donors should be completed.
          · Information system, including management of all processes through
              computerization should be well established soon.             Computerized


                                          34
              management system of blood donors should be established, though it will
              involve a long procedure.
          ·   Poor preparation for blood drive sessions. Better care of blood donors,
              including their reception, providing guidance, emotional support or even
              incentives should be carefully considered.
          ·   Regular refresher training and supervision should be maintained to
              maintain staff level of knowledge.
          ·   It is necessary to have better collaboration between RBTCs and Red Cross
              Society and other advocacy organizations, correctly sharing and assigning
              responsibilities, tasks and budget allocations.

Overall, the project has experienced a significant and profound success. The project
opened a new stage in the field of hematology and blood transfusion in Vietnam and
established a strong base for the new, centralized model of safe blood transfusion.




                                         35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A Stakeholder Workshop was organized in September 2009 with participants from both
Government side (MOH and other related Ministries), and donor side (the WB task team,
WHO consultants, Luxemburg representatives). Vice Minister Tran Chi Liem chaired
the workshop. Key notes from the workshop are as follows:

Achievements:
         · Established a sound and comprehensive foundation for Vietnam blood
              transfusion sector including manpower, facilities, equipment, policy
              frame, and quality management at the national level towards
              centralization, modernization and effectiveness.
         · Provided blood with significant improvement in quantity and quality for
              medical treatment purposes in 33 provinces, including lowland and high
              land areas. It significantly improved the equity for people in accessing
              high quality blood and blood components in health facilities.
         · Significantly improved the community awareness on voluntary blood
              donation and improved the share of voluntary blood donation in the
              country.
         · Supported the large number of staff attending different types of training on
              blood transfusion nationwide.
         · Supported to build the good relationship between Blood Transfusion
              sector and the Red Cross Association in mobilizing blood donation in the
              country.

Lessons learnt:
           · Project investments on construction, land clearance and authorization are
               very important for project implementation. Good preparation of land
               requirements before the project's start should be a condition for project
               support.
           · The capacity of project management staff needs to be strengthened and
               professionalized, especially for big investments and comprehensive
               projects.

Recommendations for the next steps:
        · Maintenance and sustainability of RBTCs' operation is a critical issue.
            The Government, MOH and respective hospitals need to allocate resources
            and support to the RBTCs. Continuous staff training is also very
            important for the new centers.
        · The development of IT system for the RBTCs should be put as a high
            priority issue in the near future. It should be noted that the lack of an IT
            system is the only disadvantage of the newly set up RBTCs in comparison
            with other blood centers in the region.
        · The project just provided initial support to the blood transfusion system in
            Vietnam. Further support, both technical and financial, to the blood
            transfusion sector is necessary for the country.


                                          36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

This is among the most successfully implemented projects in the health sector, meeting
almost all project's objectives and indicators within the defined project time-life. The
project has greatly improved safe blood supplies and transfusion in Vietnam, better meet
the huge blood transfusion demand of the country. Due to better blood supply and
transfusion, many lives have been saved, and new high medical technologies have been
applied, e.g. organs transplant, heart operations etc.

Four regional blood transfusion centers built with the project support are very important
pillars for further development of blood transfusion in Vietnam, expanding to other
provinces of the country in the coming years. The project has also greatly supported
human resource development for blood transfusion in Vietnam with adequate short-term
and long-term training programs.

In addition, the project has produced a team of project management staff with good
qualification and rich experience in managing a WB-funded project, which are very
useful for the MOH and other projects to hire.

Through this project, some lessons have been learnt for the MOH. Firstly, the country
ownership in project design (centralized rather than decentralized blood transfusion
system) has led to the success and right direction of blood transfusion in the world.
Sufficiency of skillful staff is very important for project implementation. For
construction, readiness of "clean land" is very important to speed-up project
implementation.

During project life, the project met many difficulties. With active PMUs and close
collaboration between PMUs, MOH and its functional departments, concerned ministries
and the World Bank, most of the constraints and difficulties have been timely addressed,
leading to good implementation of the project. Appropriate fund reallocation and project
restructuring may take time, but were very useful to improved project appropriateness
and effectiveness.

Good international and local consultants have also significantly contributed to the success
of the project.




                                            37
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

 Summary of Comments from WHO following completion of World Bank Regional
                     Blood Transfusion Center Project


1. Background

WHO has run a Blood Safety Technical Assistance Project in Vietnam since mid-2004.
The stated objectives of this project are wide, covering many technical and organizational
aspects but with a focus on improving blood safety in Vietnam. However, the project
was also formulated to provide some technical (blood transfusion related) assistance to
the World Bank RBTC Project, particularly with respect to architectural design and
technology selection.

2. Major Comments

a. Project Management

WHO was not involved in the routine management of the WB RBTC project so the
following views are expressed from a position of close proximity but lack of a formal
role within the project:

· Implementation could have been improved further with a dedicated in-country project
manager/technical expert (WHO is aware that this is contrary to World Bank rules).

· The effectiveness of the Central PMU to control activities of the Regional PMU was
compromised by the lack of authority granted within Government of Vietnam structures
to the CPMU host organization (NIHBT) over the RPMU host organizations (Hue
General Hospital, Cho Ray Central Hospital, Can Tho General Hospital).

· The WB RBTC Project and WHO TA Project were managed through separate PMUs.
Compliance with the Hanoi Core Statement on Aid Effectiveness would have been
achieved and operational effectiveness may have been improved if the projects had been
run under a single PMU. This however was not fully considered during formulation of
the TA Project. However, during the course of the WB RBTC Project, good, but largely
informal communication was steadily developed with the WHO TA Project.

b. Facilities

The new facilities in the three completed RBTCs are generally of a standard suitable to
the operation of modern blood bank. In at least two centers however there have been
some changes to room layout that may compromise GMP.


c. Equipment


                                           38
The equipment provided through the project is generally of a high and suitable standard
for the operation of a modern blood bank. In some cases however, installation,
commissioning and validation (I,C&V) and operator training has been inadequate and
still now needs to be ensured. Some equipment remains unused, but this will decrease as
RBTCs slowly increase capacity.

d. Voluntary Non-Remunerated Blood Donor Recruitment (VNRBD)

The WB RBTC Project has provided funding to support a significant increase in blood
donation and % of VNRBD.

e. Staff Training

The WB RBTC Project has provided significant levels of funding to support staff
training.

f. Organizational Structures

Through the WB RBTC project, the significant and important concept of a "regional"
blood center has been introduced and is accepted as a principle by the majority of the
professional blood transfusion community.

3. Conclusions

a. Impact

General: The project has greatly increased the profile of blood transfusion within the
MOH and made the blood transfusion professional community in Vietnam more
confident. The project has also helped lay a foundation for cooperation at the regional
(across Provinces) and national level.

Facilities: The project has provided Vietnam with much needed improved facilities

Equipment: The project has provided Vietnam with much needed improved equipment

VNRBD: The project has provided Vietnam with much needed additional funding to
support VNRBD activities and has led to a large increase in blood donation in the 22
Provinces covered by the project.

Training: The project has provided much needed opportunities for staff training

b. Current issues requiring attention

The WB RBTC Project has made a very significant, necessary and welcome contribution
to the development of improved blood services in Vietnam. However, to make best use



                                          39
of this investment and for development of blood services to continue the following issues
require attention:

Organizational Structures: The lack of formal organizational arrangements in the sector
at regional and national level, and between the health sector and civic sector with respect
to blood donor recruitment, is now the most critical barrier to progress towards cost
effective provision of a safe and efficacious blood supply. To overcome this, WHO
supports the creation of a genuinely national blood transfusion service. Failure to create
such a service will result in lower blood safety and higher overall costs to the
Government.

Operational management: Serious focus now needs to be given to increasing standards
of blood safety within the RBTCs. To make best use of the investment in construction
and equipping the RBTCs, and as part of a. above, RBTCs need to be allowed to fulfil
their "regional" role much more fully.

Facilities: It is recommended that the Government now make suitable provision (budget
and staff) to enable continuous maintenance of new facilities.

Equipment: It is recommended that the Government now make suitable provision
(budget, staff, organization) for continuous management of equipment calibration,
preventative maintenance, servicing and repair.

VNRBD: Unless there is replacement of funding for VNRBD activities in the 22
Provinces covered by the WB RBTC Project, there is a danger of improved donation
levels being reversed and increases in blood sellers or replacement/family donors.

Training: It is recommended that the Government now make suitable provision (budget
and staff) for continuation of training activities.

Capital Investment: Future capital investment is undoubtedly required but should be
planned at national level as part of the wider plan (already underway) to create a national
network of blood banks.

Financial sustainability: Support should be given to the development of a sustainable
funding mechanism for blood services. WHO does not support the 100% cost recovery
model as patients can not carry the full cost for provision of products and treatment.
Some form of government subsidy is required, but according to regularly reviewed
performance of the blood sector against agreed indicators and with full financial
transparency.




                                            40
4. Recommendations

a. Future support

The WHO TA Project is currently scheduled to continue until the end of 2009, but a
further two-year No Cost Extension until the end of 2011 is currently being sought.

WHO recommends that any future financial support from the WB for further
infrastructure development should be contingent on the prior creation of structures for a
Vietnam National Blood Transfusion Service (VNBTS) with at least the following
features:

· Dedicated organization (e.g. a National Blood Authority [NBA]) with national
responsibility and authority for the whole BTS
· Development of a National Blood Policy clearly identifying organizational roles and
responsibilities within a blood service with a national structure
· Development of a National Blood Plan outlining strategies and detailed plans for
development and operation of a national blood service
· Development of a plan for an integrated blood bank network including mechanism for
RBTCs to provide regional products and services

Matched counterpart funding (as far as possible) and a dedicated in-country project
manager/technical expert is recommended for any Phase II investment.

Any Phase II program and further technical support from WHO should be managed as a
single project and as part of the National Blood Program by an NBA.

Paul Rogers
Technical Advisor (Blood Safety)
WHO Vietnam
5th September 2009




                                           41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. Project Appraisal Document. The World
    Bank. March 18, 2002
2. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. World Bank. Aide-memoires from
    Preparation, Pre-appraisal and Supervision Missions.
3. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. World Bank. Project Status Reports and
    Implementation Status and Results Reports
4. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. World Bank. Negotiation Minutes
5. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. World Bank. Project Development
    Credit Agreement.
6. Ministry of Health. Base line survey on Blood Transfusion. June 1999
7. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. Central Project Management Unit. Mid-
    term Review. September 2005
8. Regional Blood Transfusion Centers Project. Central Project Management Unit.
    Project Closing Report. September 2009.
9. Central Project Management Unit. Ministry of Health. Final Project Evaluation.
    September 2009.
10. The World Bank. Health Financing and Delivery in Vietnam ­ Looking forward.
    Health , Nutrition, and Population Series, 2009
11. National Health Support Project. Implementation Completion and Result Report.
    Project Completion Report. The World Bank. August 24, 2007.
12. Population and Family Health Project. Implementation Completion and Result
    Report. Project Completion Report. The World Bank. March 2004.
13. Ministry of Health. Policy document on Blood Transfusion.
14. Ministry of Health. The National Blood Transfusion Program for the period from
    2001 ­ 2010.
15. The World Health Organization. Blood Safety Technical Assistance project
    document.




                                         42
                             102°                                                          104°                                                                          106°                                                                             108°                                                                  110°
                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                         Guangnan
                                                                To
                                                             Kunming
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHINA
                                                                                                                              Hà
                                                                                                                   3          Giang                                                             `
                                                                                                                                                                                           Cao Bang
                                                                                                                                                                             4
                                                                      Lào Cai                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                            7                                                                                         Nanning




                                                                                  Ho
                                                                       40                                                                                                                    4A
                                                                                                                                   2                                     3
                                          1




                                                                                       ng
                                                                                  2                                                                         8




                                                                                           (R
                                                                                                                                                                      `
                                                                                                                                                                     Bac Can




                                                                                             ed
                                                        Lai                                                              70                                                                                                                                                                                                            22°




                                                                                                )
            22°                                        Châu
                                                                                                                                        Tuyên                                                                   Lang ,
                                                                                                                                        Quang                                                                    Son
                                                                       Da                         32                                                                 Thai
                                                                                                             Yên Bái                                                                                            9
                                                                            (Bl                                                                                      Nguyen
                                                                               ac                                                                   12                                          1                      4B
                                                                                  k)
                                                                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                  11                                                                                                       Co To

                                                                   Són La                                                Viêt Trì                Vinh Yen
                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                                                                                                                                                      Bác Giang
                                                                                                                                                                                                          13                14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vinh Thuc
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cai Chien
                                                                                       6                                                                                         Bác
                                                                            5                                                 10                                                                                                             Cai Bau
                                                                                                                                            HANOI                        16 Ninh 19                 18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ha Long             Co To
                         To                                                                                              Hòa Bình
                                                                                                                                 Hà Dông                                         5
                                                                                                                                                                                      Haí                 
                      Sopxang                                                                                                                                   17       18           Dúóng              Hai Phong
                                                                                                                                                                                                    20                      Cat Ba
                                                                                                                                                           Hung Yen
                                                                                                                                            21         Hà Nam 22                     23 10                                            Halong
                                                                                                                                                                                             Thái Bình                                 Bay




                                                                                                                               M
                                                                                                                                                                                      Nam




                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                       Ninh Bình                      Dinh

                                                                                                                                            15                           24 25                                                                       Bach Long Vi                                                                      20°
            20°


                                                                   To                                                                                  26            Thanh Hóa
                                                             Luang Prabang
                                                                                                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                       Me
                                                                                                                                                                     Nghi Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gulf
                       LAO PEOPLE'S                                                                          7
                                                                                                                    Ca         27                                                                                                                                                                                    Hainan I.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (China)
                    DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                                                                                 Vinh

                                                                                                                                             8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Tonkin
                                                                                                                                                                               ~
                                                                                                                                                                         Hà Tinh
                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                                                     To
            18°                                                                                                  Khammouan                                                                                                                                                                                                             18°
                                                                                                  M




                                                                                                                                                                                      15
                                                                                                    ek
                                                                                                       on
                                                                                                       g




                                                                                                                                                                                                           Dông Hói
                                                                                                                                                                                            29

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Con Co


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dông Hà

                                                                                                                                                                                                                9           30                    Hue
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                       Savannakhet                                                                          
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              32                                                                       16°
            16°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Dà NangCham
                                     T H A I L A N D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tam Ky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              33
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ly Son
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     14                                                            Re

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Quàng Ngai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       34


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               35
                           102°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kon Tum

                                                   VIETNAM
                        REGIONAL BLOOD                                                                                                                14°                                                                                                                                  19                                          14°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Play Cu                                     Quy Nhon


                  TRANSFUSION CENTERS PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                  To                                                                                36
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Stung Treng                                                                                                       Xanh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Da




                                    REGIONAL BLOOD TRANSFUSION CENTERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tuy Hòa
                                    REGION SERVED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      39                          38
                                                                                                                                                            C A M B O D I A                                                                               Buôn Ma                                26

                          AIRPORTS                                            NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                  9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Thuôt

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40               Gom
                          PORTS                                               RAILROADS

                          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                   RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                      27                                            Nha Trang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tre
                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                  12°
                                                                                                                                                                             Phnom Penh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Dà Lat                                                  12°
                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                 14


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dông                                                  42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Xoái
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41
              PROVINCES:                                                                                                         Mek                                                         44                                                           20                                            43        Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                                                                                 22                                                                                                                               Tháp Chàm
                                                                                                                                        on




               1   Lai Chau          31   Thua Thien Hue
                                                                                                                                             g




                                                                                                                                                      To
               2   Lao Cai           32   Da Nang                                                                                                                                                                   45
                                                                                                                                                  Phnom Penh                     Tây Ninh                                         46
               3   Ha Giang          33   Quang Nam                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Thu Dãu
               4   Cao Bang          34   Quang Ngai                                                                 To                                                                                                                                        47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Môt
                                                                                                                 Phnom Penh                                                                                           Biên Hòa
               5   Son La            35   Kon Tum
               6   Yen Bai           36   Gia Lai                                                                                                                                                                                                              1               Phan Thiêt
               7   Tu Yen Quang      37   Binh Dinh                                       To
                                                                                      Kampong Som                                                                                            50
                                                                                                                                                                                                         48                 Ho Chi Minh City
               8   Bac Can           38   Phu Yen                                                                                      91               52 Cao Lanh                                                              51

               9   Lang Son          39   Dac Lac                                                                             54                                                           51            Tan An                                                                                   Phu Quy
              10   Phu Tho           40   Khanh Hoa                                                                           Long Xuyên                                                                                                    49
              11   Vinh Phuc         41   Binh Phuoc                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                         Vinh Long
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ~
                                                                                                                                                                                                     My Tho
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bên Tre
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Vung Tàu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ~
              12   Thai Nguyen       42   Lam Dong                       Phu
              13   Bac Giang         43   Ninh Thuan                    Quoc                      Nghe                                           80     Cân                                     53
            10°                                                  10°
                                                                                                                    Rach Giá                            Tho'                 55                                                                                                                                                        10°
              14   Quang Ninh        44   Tay Ninh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Hai
                                                                                                                   Tre                           57
              15   Ha Noi            45   Binh Duong                                                                                                                                       56       Trá Vinh
                                                                                                                                                                58
              16
              17
                   Bac Ninh
                   Ha Tay
                                    Gulf
                                     46
                                     47
                                          Dong Nai
                                          Binh Thuan                                       Nam Du
                                                                                                             Rai                                                                                                    MEKONG DELTA

              18   Hung Yen          48   T.P. Ho Chi Minh                                                                                                                            Sóc Trang
              19   Hai Duong         49   Ba Ria-Vung Tau                                                                                             60             1       59                                                                           0        25     50          75        100 125 150 Kilometers
              20
              21
                   Hai Phong
                   Hoa Binh
                                     of
                                     50
                                     51
                                          Long An
                                          Tien Giang
                                                                  Tho Chu                                                                               Bac Liêu
                                                                                                                         Cà Mau
              22   Ha Nam            52   Dong Thap                                                                                                                                                                                                       0              25                 50               75            100 Miles
              23   Thai Binh         53   Ben Tre
                                                                                                                                    61
              24
              25
                   Ninh Binh
                   Nam Dinh
                                Thailand
                                     54
                                     55
                                          An Giang
                                          Vinh Long                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                             Con Dau
              26   Thanh Hoa         56   Tra Vinh                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
              27   Nghe An           57   Kien Giang                                                                                                                                                                             on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 31559




              28   Ha Tinh           58   Can Tho                                                                                                                                                                                judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                              Khoai
JULY 2001




              29   Quang Binh        59   Soc Trang                                                                                                                                                                              acceptance of such boundaries.
              30   Quang Tri         60   Bac Lieu
                           102°      61   Ca Mau                                           104°                                                                               106°                                                                                 108°                                                                110°
