                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank



                                                          Report No: ICR00003076



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-H2510 / IDA-H5100)



                                          ON A

                                        GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.1 MILLION
                          (US$ 6.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND AN

                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION
                          (US$ 5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                        FOR AN

                     ELECTRICITY LOSS REDUCTION PROJECT


                                      April 30, 2014


Energy Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2013)

                   Currency Unit = Haitian Gourdes
                   HT Gourdes 1.00 = US$ 0.0238
                     US$ 1.00 = HT Gourdes 42

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       October 1 to September 30

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF        Additional Financing
AFD       French Development Agency
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CMS       Customer Management System
CRI       Cash Recovery Index
CQ        Consultant Qualification
DA        Designated Account
EDH       Electricité d’Haïti
EGRO      Economic Governance Reform Operation
ECTAG     Economic Technical Assistance Grant
EU        European Union
FBS       Fixed Budget Selection
FMR       Financial Management Report
GOH       Government of Haiti
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank
LAC       Latin America and Caribbean region
MEF       Ministry of Finance
MTPTC     Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication (Ministère des Travaux
          Publics, Transport et Communication)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PCU/UCP   Project Coordination Unit / Unité de Coordination du Projet
PEMFAR    Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Review
PPIAF     Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
PREPSEL   Electricity Loss Reduction Project (Projet de Réduction des Pertes du Secteur de
          l’Electricité, this project)
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QCBS      Quality Cost Based Selection
RMS       Resource Management System
SBD       Standard Bidding Document
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR    Terms of Reference
TSMS   Technical Service Management System


                  Vice President: Jorge Familiar Calderon
                Country Director: Mary Barton-Dock
                 Sector Manager: Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies
            Project Team Leader: Frederic Verdol
               ICR Team Leader: Frederic Verdol
                                                  HAITI
                                    Electricity Loss Reduction Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by component .................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ……………...40
  Annex 8. Overview of the Haiti Energy and Electricity Sectors………………….......46
  Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... ..48

  MAP
A. Basic Information
Country:                Haiti            Project Name:            HT Electricity Project
Project ID:             P098531          L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-H2510, IDA-H5100
ICR Date:               02/02/2014       ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                  GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
Lending Instrument:     SIL              Borrower:
                                                                  (MIN. ECON & FINANCE)
Original Total
                        XDR 4.10M        Disbursed Amount:        XDR 6.66M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 7.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 DIRECTION GENERALE EDH
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process          Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/19/2006     Effectiveness:          07/31/2007         07/31/2007
                                                                                06/25/2010
Appraisal:            04/05/2006     Restructuring(s):                          02/28/2012
                                                                                02/28/2013
Approval:             08/03/2006     Mid-term Review:        07/08/2011         09/27/2011
                                     Closing:                02/28/2010         08/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower             Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing     Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies: Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:     Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                                     Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                                           Quality at Entry
                                               Yes                                                           None
at any time (Yes/No):                                                   (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                               Quality of
                                               Yes                                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before                          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:                  Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                                      Original                   Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
    Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                                       100                        100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
    Infrastructure services for private sector development                                67                        65
    Other accountability/anti-corruption                                                                             5
    Regulation and competition policy                                                     33                        30

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                                 At ICR                                      At Approval
    Vice President:                Jorge Familiar Calderon                         Pamela Cox
    Country Director:              Mary A. Barton-Dock                             Caroline D. Anstey
    Sector Manager:                Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies                         Susan G. Goldmark
    Project Team Leader:           Frederic Verdol                                 Clemencia Torres De Mastle
    ICR Team Leader:               Frederic Verdol
    ICR Primary Author:            Fernando Lecaros


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document1)
The objectives of the Project were to contribute to the sustainable improvement in the
quality of electricity services to customers and to the strengthening of the financial and
operational performance of the electricity public utility (EDH).



1
 Formulation of the PDO in the PAD and in the Legal Agreement are slightly different: the PDO stated in the PAD has been selected
here because it is the one approved by the Board, used in the results frameworks and monitored throughout project implementation.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
 The PDO was not revised but Performance and Intermediate Indicators’ baseline and
values were revised with the Additional Financing (AF) in July 29, 2009 and the
Restructuring in June 25, 2010.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target       Completion or
                                             documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Cash Recovery Index
Value
                        11.51                    50               40               26.7
(percentage)
Date achieved        03/01/2011              07/29/2009       03/01/2011        07/01/2013
              Baseline and revised target values reset subsequently to January 2010
Comments
              earthquake: 2011 baseline three times lower than 2006 value (31%).
(incl. %
              Value increased by 130% between baseline and final, but only 87% of expected
achievement)
              progress was achieved.
              Percentage of Customers served at least 6 hours per day in the zones served by
Indicator 2 :
              EDH
Value
                          20                     50                                 100
(percentage)
Date achieved        03/01/2011              07/29/2009                         07/01/2013
Comments
              Target achieved and surpassed by 100%: all of power distribution circuits served
(incl. %
              by EDH had more than 6 hours of daily service by completion.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of Customers in the CMS Database
Value
(quantitative     0                                           185,315       224,052
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/12/2005                                     03/01/2011     07/01/2013
Comments          Customer Management System (CMS) software activity added at the additional
(incl. %          financing level. Target revised after the 2010 earthquake. 100% achievement.
achievement)      End value higher than target because of the increased number of customers.
Indicator 2 :     Number of Customers in the TSMS Database
Value
(quantitative     0                                           185,315       224,052
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/12/2005                                        03/01/2011     07/01/2013
                Technical Service Management System (TSMS) software activity added at the
Comments
                additional financing level. Target revised after the 2010 earthquake. 100%
(incl. %
                achievement. End value higher than target because of the increased number of
achievement)
                customers.
Indicator 3 : Number of EDH staff trained to use CMS and TSMS (not cumulative)
Value
(quantitative   0                                               435            296
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/12/2005                                        03/01/2011     07/01/2013
Comments
                Target achieved at 47%. All EDH staff located where the systems have been
(incl. %
                installed were trained; systems have yet not been installed in the provinces.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Active Customers per Employee Ratio
Value
(quantitative   80                                              100            98
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/12/2005                                        03/01/2011     07/01/2013
Comments
(incl. %        90% achievement of the expected improvement.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Technical Assistance to EDH Management
                                                                               Gap analysis
                                                                               conducted. New
                                                                               procedures for
                                                                Implementatio Commercial and IT
                                                                n of new       management
                                                                procedures for recommended.
                                                                financial      Individual experts
Value
                                                                management, funded under the
(quantitative   Sub-standard procedures
                                                                internal       project to support
or Qualitative)
                                                                control, human EDH management
                                                                resources,     progressively
                                                                technical      diffused
                                                                management professionalism and
                                                                               commercial culture
                                                                               among management
                                                                               and staff.
Date achieved 12/18/2009                                        03/01/2011     07/01/2013
Comments        Support to EDH management was timely after the 2010 earthquake, and seemed
(incl. %        to have provided positive cultural change amongst EDH staff, albeit not
achievement) sustainably.
Indicator 6 : Financial Management Plan for EDH
                                                                Implementatio
                                                                n of (i) an    Financial tool
Value
                No financial management                         accounting     provided to EDH,
(quantitative
                plan in place.                                  system, (ii)   funded under the
or Qualitative)
                                                                definition of project
                                                                manual of
                                                              procedures,
                                                              and (iii)
                                                              inventory of
                                                              assets
Date achieved 12/18/2009                                      03/01/2011   07/01/2013
Comments      Accounting assistance under progress since May 2013, funded under a World
(incl. %      Bank project implemented by Haiti Ministry of Finance. Delivery expected for
achievement) first Quarter of 2014.
Indicator 7 : Number of satisfied customers (large customers)
                                                              Survey to be
                                                              done once the
Value                                                         information
                                                              systems           Survey conducted in
(quantitative   No baseline.
                                                              operation is      March 2014
or Qualitative)                                               judged
                                                              satisfactory to
                                                              EDH.
Date achieved 12/18/2009                                       03/01/2011    03/31/2014
              The Beneficiary Survey conducted on 122 beneficiaries showed that: (i) 62% of
              large customers noticed improvement of the quality of service, (ii) 65% are
Comments
              satisfied by the new infrastructure (meters) or service provided, (iii) 31% have
(incl. %
              experienced issues with their electricity bill since the CMS is in place, and (iv)
achievement)
              23% have already called the EDH hotline put in place under the project (CSMS
              sub-component).
Indicator 8 : Employees satisfied with new system
                                                              First wave of
                                                              implementation
Value                                                         of the system
                                                              took place in Survey conducted in
(quantitative   No system in place.                           mid-2012 with March 2014
or Qualitative)                                               5,000 clients,
                                                              via TSMS
                                                              system.
Date achieved 12/18/2009                                     04/01/2012      03/31/2014
              The Beneficiary Survey conducted within a sample of 38 EDH staff showed that
Comments      if 76% of the staff considers information systems as critical elements for EDH to
(incl. %      improve its performance, only 37% believe that the current systems are
achievement) functioning correctly. Overall, 39% of staff thinks that the PREPSEL has
              contributed to improve EDH performance.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                        IP                   Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     10/26/2006             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.00
  2     06/06/2007             Satisfactory      Moderately Unsatisfactory                   0.00
  3     11/12/2007             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.17
  4     06/06/2008             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.26
  5     12/16/2008             Satisfactory            Satisfactory                          0.37
 6     05/15/2009       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                0.51
 7     11/15/2009       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                1.32
 8     06/06/2010       Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                2.83
 9     02/20/2011       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               4.63
 10    08/13/2011       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               5.93
 11    05/21/2012       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               7.47
 12    03/25/2013       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory               8.91
 13    09/12/2013       Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Unsatisfactory              10.11


H. Restructuring (if any)
               Board          ISR Ratings at       Amount
Restructuring Approved        Restructuring      Disbursed at    Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)      PDO                             Restructuring         Key Changes Made
               Change          DO       IP     in USD millions
                                                               Additional Financing (AF)
                                                               supported costs overruns for the
                                                               customer management systems
                                                               and remote meters, and provided
                                                               technical assistance to EDH
                                                               Management and Minister of
 09/08/2009         N          MS      MS             0.54     Public Works (MTPTC).
                                                               Changes: added US$ 5.0 million;
                                                               extended closing date by two
                                                               years, to February 28, 2012;
                                                               added Component 4 ‘Technical
                                                               Assistance to EDH
                                                               Management’.
                                                               Extension of closing date by one
                                                               year (new date: February 28,
                                                               2013) and revision of the project
 06/25/2010         N          MS      MS             3.05
                                                               indicators’ baseline,
                                                               subsequently to January 2010
                                                               earthquake.
                                                               Extension of closing date
                                                               deadline until August 31, 2013,
 02/28/2013         N          MS      MU             8.85
                                                               to allow completion of remote
                                                               metering activities.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Political context at the project preparation period was very fragile. By 2003, Haiti’s
political situation had become very uncertain. External aid dried up, the World Bank
closed its office in Haiti and many other donor agencies withdrew their support. Armed
opposition forces entered from the Dominican Republic to remove President Aristide
from power. He left the country on February 29, 2004 and a transitional government
took office. The Bank renewed its official relations with Haiti in 2004.

Regarding the Economic context, Haiti already had its singular status of poorest
country in the LAC region and in the Western Hemisphere. About 78 percent of its
8.6 million population lived below the poverty line (54 percent in extreme poverty). The
country’s economic situation and public institutions were then structurally weakened
during the previous two decades by political instability and a series of conflicts,
exacerbating poor governance practices and increasing Haiti’s dependency on external
assistance.

Haiti’s Electricity sector was institutionally weak, technically inefficient and
financially in deficit. Despite the low level of electricity service to the 25% Haitian
population having access to electricity (10 hours of service per day on average, and a
90MW unmet demand at the evening peak, see Annex 8), the high level of losses (above
50%) and the high electricity generation cost resulted in a heavy public expenditure
burden 2. The increasing rate of electricity theft – nurtured by a culture of non payment -
and use of inefficient back-up generators were the main reasons leading to the
development of the multi-donor support strategy to the Electricity sector3 in 2004. The
IDA funded Haiti Electricity Loss Reduction Project (or PREPSEL) was designed and
approved in line with this multi-donor support, consistent with the Bank’s IDA
Transitional Support Strategy (January 2005) and in parallel with other Bank Group
assistance to the Government of Haiti in the Energy sector4.

The PREPSEL initially aimed to improve living standards of a representative
sample of EDH customers, through power distribution loss reduction. The project
design was aimed at putting EDH on a virtuous path of operational and service



2
  In 2005, national budget transfers to the vertically integrated state power utility EDH were US$ 47 million, representing 7 percent of
the national budget.

3
  The multi-donor strategy has been jointly adopted in July 2004 by the international community, the GOH and EDH, under the
Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF). Donors involved (CIDA, USAID, AFD, World Bank, EU and IADB) signed on October 21,
2005 a MoU with the GOH, providing almost US$ 15 million to improve the transparency of the sector and increase the efficiency of
investments realized.

4
 ESMAP assistance on wood fuels alleviation, PPIAF assistance for various analytical studies on the electricity sector, and IFC’s
assistance to CIDA for the accounting assistance and financial audit in EDH.




                                                                   1
improvement, in support of government’s higher goal of enhancing quality of life and
economic development.
It was recognized that the scale of the problem at EDH would require more resources to
resolve than PREPSEL had to offer. Hence PREPSEL was aimed at specific discreet
issues which, if successful could help to put EDH on the path to recovery, in concert with
other efforts, also underway.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
The objectives of the Project are “to contribute to the sustainable improvement in the
quality of electricity services to customers and to the strengthening of the financial and
operational performance of the electricity public utility (EDH)”. The PDO formulation in
the PAD and in the Legal Agreement5 are slightly different: the PDO stated in the PAD
has been selected here because it is the one approved by the Board, used in the results
frameworks and monitored throughout project implementation.


Original key performance indicators for the project (to be achieved within 36 months,
as per PAD results framework) were as follow:

Project outcome indicators:
- Number of electricity service interruptions decreasing from 126 to 15 per month in the
project area, and from 257 to 220 per month for the large customers;
- Improvement of the Cash Recovery Index from 31% to 69% in the project area, and
from 50% to 78% for the industrial customers;
- Endorsement by EDH and the Government of a final proposal on how to replicate the
pilot project to reduce losses in the other areas supplied by EDH.

Component 1 indicators:
- Number of consumers in the whole country incorporated into the CMS and TSMS
database amounting 220,758.
-Number of EDH employees successfully trained in the use of the new CMS and TSMS
amounting 405 staff;
- Increase of Active customers / employee ratio from 79 to 114.

Component 2 indicators:
- Increase in the revenues billed to large customers by EDH in the project zone by
Gourdes 31 million monthly, and respective increase of the revenues collected by
Gourdes 62 million monthly;
-Number of interruptions per month in the project zone - also known as SAIFI index –
decreasing from 126 to 15.


5
 PDO formulation in the Legal Agreement is “to assist the Recipient in achieving sustainable improvement in the quality of electricity
services to customers and strengthening the financial and operational performance of its power utility”.




                                                                  2
- Monthly cumulative duration of interruptions - also known as SAIDI index – decreasing
from 250 minutes to 180 minutes;
-Number of consumers regularized in the project zone increasing from 9,183 to 9,474;
-Number of EDH employees trained to perform commercial activities in the project area.
- Daily level of service in the project zone increasing from 18 hours per day to 24 hours
per day;

Component 3 indicators:
-Number of satisfied customers in the project area as measured by periodic surveys and
focus groups, amounting 7,769 (and 1,874 large customers) ;
-Number of EDH employees satisfied with the new information system amounting at
least 625;
- Number of EDH employees satisfied with the evolution of the project amounting 1,938
staff.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The Additional Financing (AF) approved by the Board on July 29, 2009 (Grant A-H5100,
for $5 million) did not include any change in the PDO formulation; the additional
resources were oriented towards: (i) providing management support to EDH as a new
project component (new Component 4); (ii) covering cost overruns under Component 1
(implementation of a new commercial approach for EDH) and Component 2
(Improvement in quality of service and increase in revenue collection of EDH through
selected groups of customers); and (iii) making additional funds available for Component
3 (Participatory approach, project management, monitoring and impact evaluation, and
replication strategy). The institutional framework, procurement and disbursement
arrangements remained also unchanged.

Key changes regarding the indicators were linked to the enhanced scope of the project
(original plus AF), now supporting EDH at the national level: key indicators had to be
measured at the utility’s level, and not only on the pilot zone of the original project. At
this time, the IADB funded project was carrying out the replication of the original pilot,
which led to removal of the now successfully achieved outcome of ‘Endorsement by
EDH and the Government of a final proposal on how to replicate the pilot project to
reduce losses in the other areas served by EDH’.

The revised indicators are detailed in Table 1 below. The indicators measuring EDH
revenues billed and collected in the pilot zone and for the large customers (component 2)
were merged into the Cash Recovery Index (CRI), which measures collections for energy
consumption over energy delivered.

Although the AF extended the project closing date by two years – from February 28,
2010 to February 28, 2012, the AF maintained the 2005 baseline, and kept also the
original project target values (with two additional years to reach these values). Hence,



                                            3
the PDO indicator “CRI” was to improve from 27% to 50% by end February 2012, and
the PDO indicator “SAIFI” was to improve from 400 to 127 average monthly
interruptions experienced by EDH clients.

The AF modified the key indicators as follows:
                               Table 1: 2009 Outcome Indicators
                 PDO                     Original Project Outcome Indicators         New Project Outcome Indicators
Contribute    to    the    sustainable     Improved quality of service                Improvement in the Cash Recovery
improvement in the quality of              provided by EDH in the project             Index
electricity services delivered to          zone                                       Improvement in the quality of
customers in Port-au-Prince and to the     Improved quality of service                service provided by EDH
strengthening of the financial and         provided to large customers                Indicators related to pilot zone and
operational performance of the public      Increase in the revenues billed by         large customers are included in
utility in charge of providing these       EDH in the project zone                    components 2.
services (EDH).                            Increase in the revenues collected by
                                           EDH in the project zone
                                           Endorsement by EDH and the                 This indicator is being removed as
                                           Government of a final proposal on          the Project is already being
                                           how to replicate the project pilot to      replicated by the IADB, with the
                                           reduce losses in the other areas           approval of EDH and the
                                           deserved by EDH                            Government
      Intermediate Outcomes                Original Intermediate Outcome                New Intermediate Outcome
                                                       Indicators                                Indicators
Component 1
Adopt and implement modern                 Number of consumers in the whole         Same
commercial and service management          country incorporated into the new
systems for EDH as the basis for a         CMS database
more customer-oriented approach to         Number of consumers located in the       Same
providing electricity services.            whole country incorporated into the
                                           new customer-installations link
                                           database and attended through
                                           TSMS
                                           Number of EDH employees                  Same
                                           successfully trained in the use of the
                                           new CMS and TSMS
Component 2
Improving service to clients and
increasing revenues billed and
collected for EDH:
     a) In the project zone                Number of interruptions per month          Same
                                           suffered by each customer
                                           Duration of interruptions                  Same
                                           Number of consumers regularized in         Same
                                           the selection zone
                                           Amount billed in project zone
                                           Amount collected in project zone
                                           Number of EDH employees trained            Same
                                           to perform commercial activities in
                                           the selection zone.
                                                                                      Increase in the Cash Recovery
                                                                                      Index in the project zone (recoups
                                                                                      improvement in amounts billed and
                                                                                      collected)



                                                   4
               PDO                 Original Project Outcome Indicators      New Project Outcome Indicators

    b) Among large consumers         Number of interruptions suffered by     Increase in Cash Recovery Index of
                                     each large customer                     the large customers (recoups
                                     Duration of interruption suffered by    improvement in amounts billed and
                                     each large customer                     collected)
                                     Number of large consumers
                                     regularized
                                     Amount billed to large customers
                                     Amount collected from large
                                     customers

                                     Number of EDH employees trained         Same
                                     to attend and follow up on large
                                     Consumers
                                     Number of satisfied customers in the
                                     project area as measured by periodic
                                     surveys and focus groups
                                     Number of large customers satisfied     Same
Component 3
Execution,      evaluation and       Number      of    satisfied   EDH       Same
replication of project through       employees
                                     Percentage of disbursement of the       Same
strategic participation              Project funds in relation to the
                                     Project implementation schedule
                                     Number and frequency of project         Same
                                     progress reports presented to and       Successful training of MTPTC
                                     approved by the Bank in relation to     energy     staff    to     supervise
                                     what was agreed upon in the Manual      performance      indicators    (new
                                     of Operations                           indicator)
Component 4
Technical Assistance to EDH       N/A – New component                        Adoption and implementation by
management                                                                   EDH of new, sound procedures in:
                                                                              o Financial management
                                                                              o Internal control
                                                                              o Human Resources (HR)
                                                                              o Commercial management
                                                                              o Technical management
                                                                             Implementation of the Financial
                                                                             Management Action Plan



1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The main beneficiaries of the PREPSEL were EDH management and staff, directly
benefiting from the modern infrastructure installed and the associated training / capacity
building. The expected improvement in quality of electricity service directly benefited
EDH customers, 92 percent of whom were residential customers, with a large majority of
poor or low income customers. More generally, the whole Haiti population would
benefit from the PREPSEL’s success, through an improved performance of EDH
translating to lower budget transfers and thus more public funds from the national budget
for social services to the poorest.




                                             5
In the original project, the direct beneficiaries were those located in the zone of influence
of the project (around 9,000, of which about 8,000 were residential), and most large
customers. The project was also expected to improve quality of service in 9 slums with a
population of around 19,000. The PAD conceived the project as a pilot project to be
replicated. If successful and replicated, the project would ultimately improve the living
standards for Haitians, and, by improving economic conditions, it was expected to have a
large impact on the economic activity of the country.


1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Improvement in EDH management systems and practices
(US$ 2,640,000). The objective of this component was to improve the operational
(technical and commercial) performance of EDH in a sustainable manner, by giving the
company the information tools for a modern and efficient customer management and the
services. The component financed the purchase and installation of two systems (the
commercial management and technical management systems, CMS and TSMS) for EDH,
which will help improve billing and quality of customer relation service.

Component 2: Improvement in quality and reliability of services and increased
revenue collection of EDH for selected groups of customers (US$ 3,245,000). In
addition to ensuring the adequate implementation of CMS and TSMS in a specific zone
of the metropolitan area and for the large customers, this component financed the
purchase and installation of remote meters for large customers, as well as the purchase
and installation of remote meters to accurately measure the production of the Independent
Power Producers (IPPs)

Component 3: Participatory approach, project management, monitoring and impact
evaluation, and replication strategy (US$ 1,579,760). This component financed the
communication and coordination costs of the project, also the monitoring of the project’s
indicators as well as a technical assistance to the MTPTC to oversee EDH’s performance
and advise the Minister on Energy-related topics.

1.6 Revised Components
The AF broadened the scope of activities under the Project, by adding a new component:

Component 4: Management support to EDH (US$ 2,570,000). This component
financed a program of technical assistance to support EDH management, consisting of
the introduction of four international experts in EDH’s management structure to enhance
the performance of the Commercial, Technical, Finance/Administration and Planning
Divisions and transfer capacity for improved management policies and practices to EDH.

The AF covered cost overruns under Component 1 (Total amount after AF was US$ 3.68
million) and Component 2 (total amount after AF was US$ 3.51 million). The AF also
made additional funds available for Component 3 to finance the costs of the Project
Coordination Unit and provide support to the Ministry of Energy during the two-year



                                             6
extension (Total amount after AF was US$ 1.08 million) during the two-year extension of
the Project. The costs overruns involved are related to the overall slower implementation
of all EDH activities after the 2008 hurricanes that mobilized most of EDH staff,
engendering immobilization of suppliers and thus costly implementation delays.



1.7 Other significant changes
The AF of 2009 extended the original closing date of February 28, 2010 to February 28,
2012. The AF was signed on November 2, 2009. Two months later, in January 2010, the
Port au Prince area was struck by a devastating earthquake which, with other natural
disasters, significantly affected the project . In June 2010 the Government requested a
reallocation of funds among the disbursement categories, an extension for submitting the
project’s audited financial statements, and an extension of the closing date. The Bank
accepted these requests and the closing date was extended to February 28, 2013.
A restructuring took place in February 2013, which extended the closing date to August
31, 2013 and reallocated the funds of different components.
In August, 2012 the Bank approved a grant for US$90 million (the Rebuilding Energy
Infrastructure and Access Project, P127203), which complements the PREPSEL project
by strengthening energy policy and planning capacities, improving the sustainability and
resilience of the power sector, as well as restoring and expanding access to reliable
electricity services, and providing financial assistance in the event of an Energy Sector
Emergency. The second component of this project allocated $77.8 million to enhancing
EDH’s infrastructure and management performance.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis. The project was prepared in a period of five months. While
coordinating closely with the other donors, the preparation team focused on the
institutional arrangements and the operational project implementation mechanisms
included in the project manual. The modernization of EDH’s information systems and
improved management of key clients were seen as the most valuable investments for the
utility’s performance improvement at the time of the preparation. The project did not
activate any of the Bank’s social or environmental safeguard policies, as its components
were basically of a managerial and financial nature, requiring the purchase of mostly
information systems (CMS & TSMS) and inert equipment (meters).
Project preparation. The project was prepared by building upon several previous
studies which analyzed EDH’s issues and possible ways of addressing them. One of
these studies, on EDH management reform6, concluded that PREPSEL was not the timely

6
    In 2006, US$ 700 thousand study funded by PPIAF tried to address EDH management weakness through a management contract.



                                                               7
operation to address an ambitious management restructuring inside EDH (despite the
recognized risks associated with a fragile management capacity at the time of the project
preparation); the project scope was then narrowed to the improvement of EDH
information and metering systems. Among the “high” risks identified during project
preparation, the lack of Government’s political willingness to support PREPSEL’s loss-
reduction measures was the most substantial. However, efforts to mitigate this risk
within Haiti’s chaotic political economy ultimately were insufficient for the project’s
technical solutions to reach their full potential during the project period.
Additional financing (AF) preparation. The AF was prepared when it became evident
that the allocated budget was insufficient to complete some of the project’s components;
these cost overrun issues7 also revealed an important need for assistance to the utility’s
management and led to the creation of a new component to address this gap. The AF
preparation (in early 2009) recognized that resources for implementing management
strengthening measures at the time of the original project preparation (2006) were not
available (some of the expected external resources to complement the PREPSEL on the
loss reduction theme did not materialize).
Project Objectives and Indicators. The PDO was ambitious, and various external
factors were able to increase or mitigate the impact of the project activities (generally the
case for all projects aiming to improve power systems). Whereas the indicators related to
the pilot zone were more realistic and reachable. These PDOs were important for the
country’s economic development as they would directly improve the level of electricity
service for the population and industries, and furthered the joint donors’ strategy on
Energy and the Bank’s IDA Transitional Support Strategy (TSS). The objectives were
representative of the country’s circumstances and development priorities at that time.
However, with the AF, realism of the project objectives and indicators became less
certain: the AF scaled-up the project’s impact area from the targeted pilot area in the
original project (9,000 customers) to the whole EDH customer base (185,000 customers),
for an increased project budget of only 83%.
Adequacy of Government commitment. GOH authorities had little involvement in
project preparation, which was mainly a Bank effort. The MTPTC was positive towards
the project but did not have the resources to participate in preparation. This had
downstream repercussions, on project monitoring and governance.
Quality at Entry and Project Design. No Quality at Entry evaluation was carried out.
The original PREPSEL design focused on technical aspects giving relatively less
emphasis on, change management to accompany the installation of information systems.
The original design lacked support to the EDH management to ensure their empowerment.
These choices were understandable as the broader energy dialog included a donors MOU
on Energy which strongly emphasized these aspects, as well as IADB’s support for EDH
providing increased resources and pressure to perform. But the overall donor
engagement of which PREPSEL was a part underestimated the tenacity of poor


7
  The cost overrun issues were related to unexpected cost escalation consecutive to implementation delays after the 2008 hurricanes
that hit the country (no hurricane costs, but an implementation capacity issue at EDH impeding to implement the project activities as
scheduled).




                                                                  8
governance at the ministry and utility levels, and set targets that could not be reached by
a utility evolving in such a fragile environment. Even if the donor support had managed
to modernize the utility and eradicate technical losses, the lack of transparency on fuel
supply and private power generation, along with the low willingness to address the
electricity theft, may still have led to the same ambivalent results (sustainable
infrastructure in place but low progress due to poor governance).


2.2 Implementation
The PREPSEL had two very distinct implementation phases, before and after the
earthquake that hit the metropolitan area on January 12, 2010. Where appropriate, the
following sections differentiate these phases, in order to clarify the analysis and
assessment.
The three restructurings involved in this operation also had an effect on the
implementation, to a lesser extent: the 2009 AF allowed to accelerate implementation of
Components 1 and 2, the 2010 restructuring allowed to adapt the project to the post-
earthquake implementation environment and the 2013 restructuring allowed to achieve
the implementation of component 2.

Factors that influenced project implementation:
2.2.1 External factors: Public sector weakness, lack of political will to conduct the
       Energy sector reform, the 2008 hurricanes and the 2010 earthquake in and around
       Port-au-Prince were important external impacts on the project.
    • Public sector weakness: Haiti has a structurally weak public sector management
       capacity8. Many public sector institutions depend on external assistance to carry
       out their functions. Institutional capacity is increasingly concentrated in the NGO
       service sector attracting more qualified staff and paying higher salaries9.
    • The lack of political will to eradicate electricity theft and improve sector
       transparency: This negatively affected the implementation and sustainability of
       the PREPSEL, as the lack of implementation of easy actions and measures by
       EDH staff was rarely addressed by senior officials. The most emblematic
       example of this in the project was the installation of remote meters for the
       verification of energy generated by the IPPs. These meters were installed by
       EDH only in March 2013, after six years of unsuccessful attempts and the use of
       two World Bank budget support operations as leverage.
    • The four hurricanes of 2008: This rare climate event – four major tropical
       hurricanes hitting Haiti in a period of two months - diverted the focus of GOH,
       EDH and MTPTC to short-term disaster solutions in project areas. The project


8
 85 percent of the Haitians holding a University diploma live outside Haiti, the number of Haitian civil servant mapped in the Energy
sector decreased from 80 to 3 between 1990 and 2006. In addition, part of EDH’s most promising young professionals has left the
utility in the early 2000s, to work in the private sector and abroad.

9
    As a result, the Project PIU had to align the consultants’ salaries to the market value.




                                                                      9
             implementation was delayed by several months during the hurricane season as
             almost all EDH capacity was mobilized on post-emergency repairs, engendering
             additional unexpected costs as EDH suppliers were mobilized and could not
             implement the work (installation of information systems).
        •    The 2010 earthquake: GOH physical and institutional infrastructure were
             devastated, as well as MTPTC’s headquarters (the Ministry was relocated in the
             laboratory of Public Works, from 2010 to the end of the project.) EDH’s dispatch
             center, some of the power distribution infrastructure as well as many of its
             commercial agencies and some of its administrative buildings (including the anti-
             fraud unit) were destroyed. The Peligre hydropower plant – largest and cheapest
             power generation plant supplying the metropolitan area – was damaged (dam
             structure) and had to stop production for a complete inspection. As of March
             2010, the utility could only collect about 30 percent of the revenue it collected
             prior to the earthquake. But most importantly, this natural disaster profoundly
             altered the morale of each staff and consultants 10 . Project implementation
             returned gradually to the pre-earthquake path only nine month later, with the
             arrival of the four international experts hired under the project to assist EDH
             Directors.

2.2.2        Internal factors. Organizational and management issues in EDH were the most
             apparent internal factors impeding implementation of the project activities.
             Passive resistance was noted for activities aimed at improving sector
             transparency, suggesting internal fraud and corruption as a possible impediment
             to implementation.
        •    Organizational and Management issues in EDH: six different Managing Directors
             (MD) headed EDH during the project period, and project execution temporarily
             slowed as each new arrival came up to speed. Main management issues that
             affected the implementation were: (i) lack of accountability of the different sub-
             project leaders, managers and Directors at EDH; and (ii) the very irregular
             meetings of EDH Board11 to endorse important decisions linked to the project.
        •     EDH’s limited technical experience with the new systems and remote meters:
             this issue was linked to the more general issue of change management. EDH
             technical and commercial staff were resistant to the implementation of the
             information systems and the remote metering components, partly because these
             technologies were new to them or represented a giant step in the modernization of
             their work environment / habits. This internal resistance has not been addressed
             properly, which affected implementation and utilization of these systems.




10
   32 EDH staff and two PREPSEL team members (one member of the PIU and one international consultant) died during the 2010
earthquake, and virtually every Haitian lost family members. EDH management set up a refugee camp on one of their sites where
more than 500 staff families lived for 7 months.

11
     EDH Board is chaired by MTPTC’s Minister, with Ministries of Finance, Justice and Planning having a representation.




                                                                  10
     •     Other technical issues: There were other paramount technical issues affecting
           project implementation; first, all the equipment funded under the project relied
           extensively on functional Communications systems (Internet, mobile phone
           network, radio frequency), which was far from obvious in Haiti. Second, this
           equipment relied on a constant and reliable electricity supply, which implied that
           EDH headquarters had to purchase backup power generation to ensure the
           continuity of commercial communication with its agencies in the field.


Project implementation during August 2007-End 2009. The original project was
effective on July 31, 2007, one year after its Approval by the Bank. This delay in
obtaining Parliamentary approval impeded the project to start implementation – and
disbursement - for the first year. Similarly to other infrastructure investment projects, the
initial activities focused on the preparation bidding documents for the CMS and the
TSMS12. On June 23, 2009, EDH signed the contract for the supply and installation of
the CMS and the TSMS; the cost of these systems, including the training and licensing,
amounted to around US$3.5 million (60 percent of the initial project budget, and 132% of
the initial budget for this component). This cost overrun originated the request for an AF,
which was approved on September 08, 2009 for US$5 million. These funds were
allocated to achieve the purchase and installation of the CMS and TSMS (for an
additional US$1.5 million) and to finance the support to EDH through four delegate
directors 13 (around $2.6 million) for improving the company’s performance through
experienced private sector managers. The project’s first phase has also implemented the
procurement process of the remote metering system for EDH’s 2,100 industrial and
commercial clients. Two successive unsuccessful tendering processes for this remote
metering system also contributed to slower-than-expected implementation and
highlighted the risk premium that potential suppliers attached to EDH.
Project implementation during January 2010-August 2013. The earthquake on
January 12, 2010 marked a complete stop of PREPSEL implementation for a six month
period. The power sector’s physical infrastructure and human resources were affected,
and the GOH and donor and plans for EDH’s performance improvement had to be
completely rethought. In March 2010, the Post-Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA)
estimated long term needs for the sustainable rebuilding and expansion of the power
sector at $300 million. While preparing a project restructuring to extend the PREPSEL
deadline, the Bank also prepared a specific post-emergency operation, the Haiti
Emergency Solar Lanterns Project (P120914). This US$ 3 million grant to the GOH
provided 55,000 solar lanterns to beneficiaries in the refugee camps. EDH management


12
  this preparation has started before the Board approval, but took several months before being ready for tendering, as some of the
technicalities were new to EDH staff and engineers.

13
  These four international experts were advisors to EDH Directors. EDH managing director insisted to use the function “Delegate
Director”, to facilitate the integration of these advisors within EDH teams. This strategy turned out to be successful, if we compare
the more difficult interaction between EDH staff and other external advisors (Tetra Tech teams, other individual consultants hired
under the PREPSEL). These consultants promoted gradually and consistently the diffusion of commercial and performance culture
within EDH staff.




                                                                 11
and staff actively participated in the operation, by providing the storage and transport
capacity and by participating in the lantern distribution to the beneficiaries (mostly EDH
customers).
Subsequent to the earthquake, EDH saw its revenues plunge as its already frail
commercial operations became weaker, and as its customers’ capacity to pay plummeted.
The information systems contractor continued to install its equipment through 2011.
Hardware installation proceeded normally, but feeding the software was extremely
difficult, as the earthquake rendered the customer database obsolete (1.5 million people
were in refugee camps or moved to the provinces). In end 2011, the project conducted an
extensive field survey to update the customer database. This resulted in an increase in
volume of revenues collected. This delayed commissioning of the CMS and TSMS until
2012, but allowed the project to provide an important volume of supervision to promote
the expected impact of these information systems. The delegate directors contracted with
the AF were recruited and they functioned within EDH from August 2010 until June
2013, which constituted the longest external support ever realized inside the utility.
The tragic consequences of the earthquake focused attention on Haiti’s infrastructure, and
enormous resources were pledged for reconstruction and rehabilitation. This included
three coordinated projects for EDH: (i) a US$ 78 million joint donor 14 effort to
rehabilitate and upgrade the EDH Peligre hydropower plant; (ii) a management contract
for EDH financed by USAID and executed by the firm Tetra Tech (which ultimately
became a technical assistance contract); and (iii) t a US$90 million grant (the Rebuilding
Energy Infrastructure and Access Project) which was approved by the World Bank on
September 26, 2012. With an allocated amount of US$78 million to enhance EDH’s
performance, this unprecedented effort became the largest Bank operation in Haiti and
the largest project in the Haiti Energy sector.
PREPSEL played a major role in the preparation phase of this new project, whose
components and activities include the completion, scale up and sustainable improvement
of the PREPSEL activities. PREPSEL also played a critical role in paving the ground for
the Tetra Tech team inside EDH, thanks to the important preparatory work done by the
delegate directors (while pursuing their respective support role to support EDH
management).


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The monitoring arrangements as described in the PAD were in accordance with generally
acceptable practices. They included a well-defined set of parameters, technical audits,
monitoring and evaluation reports.
The absence of a reporting culture in EDH has been the main issue for the
implementation of the M&E system. Data collection to fill the extensive list of project



14
 IADB provided US$ 60 million ; KfW and the OPEP Fund for Development also contributed, for a total additional amount of
US$ 18 million.




                                                             12
indicators turned out to be weak and very difficult to implement on a regular basis,
leading to difficulties in confirming project implementation progress.
One positive outcome of the M&E system was the timely delivery of good quality
technical audit reports, thanks to the professionalism of the PIU financial specialists.
More generally, the PIU team played a major role in the collection of key data. This was
partly due to the permanent coordination between the project PIU and EDH technical
teams, but above all due to the very good networking skills of the PIU Coordinator (who
was formally Director of Planning at EDH).
Utilization of the dataset collected by the Bank team along the years was critical during
the post-earthquake PDNA exercise, as EDH was not able to provide the required
baseline data to the team in charge of assessing the funding needs for rebuilding the
power system. Also on July 2011, the mid-term review mission provided useful inputs on
priority investments for the preparation of the new Bank energy operation.

The monitoring arrangements also included the design and update of a power sector
performance dashboard15 that was assembled by EDH and the Ministry (MTPTC) and
disseminated through the MEF website on a periodic basis. This dashboard is a key
instrument for the improvement of transparency in the electricity sector, disclosing
variables such as fuel consumption and power generation by power plant, and EDH
revenue performance. Its public update and publication has been irregular since the
closing of the MTPTC Energy Management Unit (UGSE), but MEF is still updating the
dashboard and circulating it within GOH senior management.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The project did not trigger any of the Bank’s environmental or social
safeguards. During its implementation no adverse social or environmental impacts were
detected.

Financial Management (FM). The PIU’s financial planning and budgeting skills were
very useful for project financial management. Although submission of financial audits
was late by several months for the first reports, all the project quarterly and annual audit
reports since 2011 were submitted before the required deadline, and all were of
satisfactory or higher quality. IADB also benefited from this well trained PIU, as the
same team implemented both World Bank and IADB funded energy projects. Another
FM requirement was the audit of EDH accounts. This activity was a project covenant
although EDH accounts had not been audited since 2006. Reconstructing and auditing
EDH accounts has proven to be a daunting exercise, and was not achieved prior to project
closure, mainly due to internal resistance to achieve it. However, the task is being funded
under the Bank’s post-earthquake project. 16 The auditing firm has been recruited and


15
      Tableau de Suivi du Secteur Électricité
16
     Haiti Infrastructure and Institutional Emergency Recovery Project (P120895).




                                                                  13
work is being implemented under close supervision and coordination with the PREPSEL
– Bank and PIU – teams.

Procurement. The project fully complied with the Bank’s procurement and Consultant
guidelines. The procurement specialist hired in the PIU fully complied with the skills
required, and all the PREPSEL procurement reviews were satisfactory. Moreover, the
expertise gained by the procurement specialist along the years, both in Bank / IADB
procurement practices and EDH / GOH public procurement guidelines, had been critical
for successful procurements. However, engineering and cost estimates aspects of some
procurements have led to problems. Notably, the first two remote metering procurements
were unsuccessful, and the cost estimates for the information systems and the remote
metering system were well below the actual costs.

The large procurement processes that started in 2008 and 2009 (information systems,
remote metering systems, delegate directors) had their major disbursements only after the
earthquake, which explains the ramp up of the project’s disbursement rate from 2010 to
2013.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
PREPSEL was initially designed as a pilot for potential scale-up. With the AF in 2009,
the scope and expectations were significantly expanded, but it was understood that the
PREPSEL alone would not be able to address alone all the structural issues of the Haiti
Electricity sector . Following the earthquake, an exceptional IDA envelope of US$ 500
million was provided for reconstruction efforts. This provided a unique opportunity – in
terms of funding and leverage - to make a significant impact on Haiti’s sustainable
Energy reconstruction and development. From May 2011 to September 2012, the Bank
team in charge of the supervision of the PREPSEL also prepared with the GOH and EDH
a new US$ 90 million operation which includes continued funding for PREPSEL
activities (deployment of CMS in the provinces, installation of remote meters for all
industrial customers). The grant was approved by the Board on September 26, 2012.
Applying lessons from PREPSEL, the team focused closely on effectiveness conditions,
and the grant was declared effective on February 06, 2013.
PREPSEL was instrumental in designing and preparing this new operation (the largest
grant to GOH on Energy, and the largest Bank operation in Haiti), by building on the
infrastructure already provided, identifying the gaps and needs, and supporting the
Client’s preparation effort. The existence of a highly capable and motivated PIU,
considerably reduced the implementation risk for the new project. Complementary to the
PREPSEL, some small grants were provided to help prepare specific components that
were out of the PREPSEL scope17.




17
  ESMAP funded a US$ 195,000 study on Household Energy and the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean provided
US$ 100,000 to analyze options for Energy Access Expansion .).




                                                           14
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The PDO can be divided into three parts: To contribute to: i) the sustainable improvement
in the quality of electricity services to customers; ii) strengthening the financial
performance of EDH; and iii) strengthening the operational performance of EDH. In
view of the unfinished development agenda in Haiti’s power sector, all three elements of
the PDO were highly relevant at the time of appraisal, and remain so today. The project
investments also were and are relevant because of the central importance of management
systems and revenue collection in any well-functioning power utility. However, the
project design and implementation relied on external factors (e.g., effective donor
dialogue) which did not materialize (see Quality at Entry below) which somewhat
diminished their relevance.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
With respect to PDO (i) – sustainably improved quality of service - the related indicator
(percentage of customers served at least 6 hours per day) shows a significant over-
achievement. Hence this PDO can be considered to be met, although improvement in
service levels resulted mostly from exogenous factors, most importantly the
commissioning of the E-Power oil fired power station. Moreover, although they were not
functioning at the full potential at the close of the project, the CMS and the TSMS are
both in place and partially operating. This creates a foundation on which to build. The
Bank’s follow-on project, combined with the operations supported by other donors, as
well as the current strategic donor dialog with is both coordinated and focused on the
energy sector, provide a good opportunity to leverage PREPSEL’s foundational work into
increased sustainability and service levels,

PDO (ii) – strengthening EDH financial performance – is linked to the CRI target of 40%
(previously 50%). However, the CRI at project close was only 26.7%. Although this is
considerably better than the baseline of 11.51%, it is only amounts to 67% of the revised
target value, and 53% of the previous target, and cannot be considered as meeting this
objective.

The third PDO – strengthening EDH operational performance – referred to the new
operational procedures for a more customer oriented approach in the execution of
activities using the information systems (para 28 of the PAD). Its achievement is linked
to the indicator 3 - Number of EDH staff trained to use CMS and TSMS, which was
achieved at 47% (296 staff trained to new procedures for a target of 435 staff). Although
staff training is an imperfect indicator, there are no other performance measures which
suggest significant operational improvements. Hence this objective cannot be considered
to be met. An action plan to train all EDH commercial staff on the adequate use of these
systems have been put in place under the new project.




                                           15
3.3 Efficiency
The economic evaluation focused on the benefits associated with an improvement of the
CRI through a reduction of commercial losses (see Annex 3 for a detailed description).
The values shown correspond to an estimate of the strict economic benefits associated
with a reduction of theft; non-metered customers etc. by putting in place the CMS and
TSMS, as well as providing management assistance through the AF. Other costs
considered in the evaluation include those associated with the Transition Management
Contract which was also responsible for feeding the CMS with the customer database.
The values yielded by the economic evaluation model can vary significantly depending
on parameters, such as the price elasticity of demand, which present a large degree of
uncertainty. Annex 3 includes a sensitivity analysis showing how the NPV and EIRR
may vary according to changes in the parameters, in particular assumptions regarding the
price elasticity of demand. Net Present Value for the project has been estimated at
US$1.76 million, with an EIRR at 15%.

The evaluation also considered the financial benefits (US$ 64 million), which are
considerably greater than the strictly economic ones and therefore yield a rate of return
(191%) far in excess of the economic IRR; this is representative of the reduction of
commercial losses, and in the long run it has an economic effect by freeing public
resources from having to support EDH and orienting them to sectors that are more
dependent on Government monies. The financial benefits, in contrast to the economic
benefits, are not significantly sensitive to the parameters mentioned above.




3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

PDO Achievement: Considering the three PDOs together, the first was fully met,
although much of the credit for this achievement is found outside the project. The second
and third were not met.
Relevance: PREPSEL continues to be relevant to the recovery of the power sector as
seen eight years after it was designed and approved, and it can boast of modest
achievements despite the setbacks experienced;
Efficacy: The CMS and TSMS were successfully installed, EDH staff were trained to use
the systems, the 500 remote meters were purchased of which 72 were installed to better
monitor the largest customers, the 6 remote meters installed to verify the power
generation of the IPPs, the customers database was totally updated and the technical
assistance provided to EDH and MTPTC. These tangible achievements justify the
project’s efficacy. Less measurable achievements are the progressive diffusion of
commercial and performance culture within EDH staff, and improvement in the Energy
sector’s transparency.
Efficiency: the project has generally delivered what was promised, although the costs
were higher than estimated. The economic evaluation shows that the main activities can
have real positive economic effects.


                                           16
Despite a highly relevant PDO and investment choices, as well as reasonable efficacy and
efficiency, the project design suffered from shortcomings as discussed below, and the
PDO achievement was moderately unsatisfactory. This leads to an overall outcome
rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Although the project was designed to target large customers, it was initially applied in an
economically mixed area which also includes small users and slum dwellers. The project
therefore had an important poverty reduction effect by providing a public service to
families living under extreme conditions.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
This is probably one of the major achievements of the project. Strengthening EDH’s
management capabilities to address the commercial issues of the utility is the essential
element to achieve a functional company. The project had recognized this as a major
challenge and has cooperated with other development partners in tackling it.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Positive impacts on transparency consisted in the publication of the electricity sector
dashboard and the installation of EDH meters at the IPPs energy delivery sites. Other
indirect impacts were the subsequent operations and projects put in place, which built on
PREPSEL’s good implementation team.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
Although PREPSEL’s legacy does not face important physical risks (the hardware and
software put in place will have a maintenance contract), its success will depend critically
on the quality of human resources involved in managing it. Human resources in Haiti are
a very scarce resource and there is a significant risk that negligence, combined with
corruption, could impede sustaining a continuing recovery of EDH.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Although the project supported a highly relevant set of investments, the technical design
did not take adequate account of Haiti’s poor communications infrastructure, and the
project design also suffered from reliance on others to address the non-technical
influences on the project, including client ownership and governance. Moreover, the
changes introduced through the Additional Finance – especially selection of a highly
ambitious CRI target for all of EDH – further eroded the potential for meeting PDO (ii).


                                            17
Considering the highly relevant and appropriately targeted investments along with the
above mentioned flaws suggests a moderately unsatisfactory rating for Quality at Entry.

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


(b) Quality of Supervision
Despite the funding constraints for project supervision, the Bank team maintained a
continuous dialogue with the authorities and with EDH management and contributed
effectively to addressing the obstacles associated with the poor governance of the sector
and the impact of multiple severe natural disasters.
Rating: Satisfactory


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Combining the preparation and supervision ratings requires taking into account the
excessively ambitious objectives set out during preparation compared to the resources to
be allocated to the project.
Despite a Moderately Unsatisfactory quality at entry, the implementation team
maintained a strong focus on results and demonstrated considerable flexibility (e.g., AF
and restructurings). The team’s almost daily dialog with the counterpart served to
maintain pressure on delivery. On balance, the Bank’s performance is thus rated at
Moderately Satisfactory.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Government did not take a proactive approach either when the project was prepared or
during execution. This is a failing that has been consistently flagged by the World Bank
team to the Borrower during supervision, given the multiple responsibilities of MTPTC
and its poorly staffed energy units. The Government’s lack of willingness to manage
efficiently its power utility was also a factor that affected the decision process inside
EDH18 and the implementation of the PREPSEL. The most illustrative example of this
lack of involvement has been the publication of the Electricity sector dashboard19, where
EDH, MTPTC and Ministry of Finance (MEF) had to coordinate in order to monitor and
publish basic information on the power sector (generation, sales and revenues) for an
improved transparency: despite the continued assistance of the donors to do so, only a
dozen of this monthly dashboard has been published during the PREPSEL
implementation period.


18
   MTPTC Minister is the Chair of EDH Administration Board ; this Board was not meeting regularly before the monthly meetings in
2012-2013.

19
     Tableau de Bord du Secteur de l’Electricité.




                                                              18
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
EDH management never realized the importance of PREPSEL for addressing the
fundamental weaknesses of the company. However, the implementing unit (the PIU) of
the project was well-directed and maintained management continuity, and it enabled the
main elements of the project to be put in place. Overall, it would not be fair to
downgrade the initial rating of the implementing teams, because of EDH bad
performance (which is reflected in the GOH performance, as EDH is a public utility).
The ICR recommends to keep the rating, to salute the outstanding work of the PIU team
in adverse conditions (natural disasters, utility’s inertia, management of multiple projects).
Rating: Satisfactory

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
The rating combines the Government and implementation agency (PIU) ratings. The
very good performance of the PIU team has been offset by the Government and EDH
management lack of ownership and willingness to tackle difficult issues and support
implementation of the project.
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


6. Lessons Learned
The preparation of small projects in weak institutional environments requires dedicating
as many resources as possible to a careful and detailed planning of what can be expected
in order to optimize the use of scarce funds.
When addressing the issues of poorly run institutions such as EDH it is necessary to
focus not only on the abilities of lower level managers in charge of implementation, but
also on the commitment of higher management. In the case of PREPSEL, EDH
Managing Director was not fully committed to the project – with the exception of the
EDH Direction team from August 2012 to August 2013 - and was responding to political
pressures rather than to economic and financial objectives. This lack of exemplary
ownership and leadership also crystalized the resistance to change at the EDH staff level.
Retrospectively, the ICR agrees that the solution consisting on providing external
assistance to EDH management through delegate directors was second best solution, and
provided more positive results that the attempt to run a management contract for EDH
with Tetra Tech; having experts within the EDH teams for a long period provided a real
added value and a progressive knowledge transfer (supply driven, then progressively
demand driven).
Focusing on customer service is the key towards utility rehabilitation, but requires actions
at all levels of management, and not only at the operational level. Disregard for the
consumer is a characteristic of many state-owned utilities, and should be addressed as a
priority both during preparation and execution.
Main lesson on the M&E is to select realistic indicators and with a direct causality with
the project activities, as it can become difficult to differentiate the impact of several
factors on the same network infrastructure’ performance.


                                             19
Most of the lessons learned were utilized to build the US$ 90 million grant to GOH on
energy, both in the substance and in the implantation arrangements. The cost estimates of
the infrastructure investments now take in account the specificity of the Haitian market
for goods and services, the capacity building and technical assistance components now
include components on the sustainability of the support provided, and the modernization
of the systems and practices include a sufficient change management aspect.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments from the Borrower are summarized in Annex 5. Main lessons from the
implementing agency’s side have been on the lack of involvement at the highest level of
EDH to ensure the adequate implementation of the project. The comments also
pinpointed the need for a more substantial change management process, when a project
intends to modernize infrastructure and processes.

(b) Co-financiers
Most of the strategic partners in the Haiti Energy sector welcomed positively the
PREPSEL at its beginnings. In 2008, IADB followed up the PREPSEL with a similar
project, the ‘Rehabilitation of the Electricity Distribution System in Port-au-Prince
Project’, a US$ 18 million grant to the GOH to enhance impact on the losses reduction.
Initiated in 2009, the ‘Peligre Hydropower Dam Rehabilitation Project’ has been
approved in 2010 (US$ 78 million grant from IADB, KfW and the OFID), also in the
objective to provide more clean and cheap electricity in the metropolitan area.
PREPSEL actions to improve transparency and good governance were the most valued
activities in the opinion of the sector partners 20 . In particular, the publication of the
Electricity sector dashboard on MEF website and the installation of meters to measure
generation of the private producers were positive signs allowing some donors to consider
supporting the Haiti Energy sector.




20
     according to interviews during the Mid-Term review consultations




                                                                 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
            Component                                   Estimate21
                                    (USD millions)                                    Appraisal
                                                      (USD millions)
1. Improvement in EDH
                                            2.64              4.56                       172.7
management systems
2. Improvement in quality and
reliability of services and
                                            3.245             1.84                        56.7
increased revenue collection of
EDH (remote meters)
3. Participatory approach, project
management, monitoring and
                                            1.58              1.36                        86.1
impact evaluation, and
replication strategy
4. Management support to EDH
and technical assistance to                 0.00              2.83                         na
MTPTC.
             Total Baseline Cost            6.00            11.00                        183.3
Physical Contingencies                      0.00              0.00                       0.00
Price Contingencies                         0.00              0.00                       0.00
              Total Project Costs           6.00            11.00                        183.3
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00              0.00                       0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00              0.00                       0.00
     Total Financing Required               0.00              0.00                       183.3




 (b) Financing
                                                               Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of        Estimate       Estimate Percentage of
                 Source of Funds
                                               Cofinancing        (USD           (USD       Appraisal
                                                                millions)      millions)
 Borrower                                                    0.00           0.00          0.00
 IDA Grant                                                   6.00           11.00         183..00
 Local Sources of Borrowing Country                          1.47           0.00          0.00


Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component I:



21
     Total including original grant plus AF.




                                                     21
The implementation of a set of modern computerized management tools such as: a Commercial
Management System (CMS) and a Technical Services Management System (TSMS).

For both systems, a long international procurement process has been necessary. The first request
for proposal launched did not succeed as (i) the technical specifications were too ambitious, and
(ii) the allocated budgeted amounts for these markets were considerably lower than the proposals
received.

Purchase and Implementation of a Commercial Management System (CMS): for a total amount
of 3,702,538.72 USD

                                 Outcomes                                          Numbers
Recruitment of an external consultant for the definition of technical and                      1
functional specifications of the CMS
Definition of technical and financial criteria for the CMS                                     1
Procurement process for the purchase of the system                                             2
Purchase of the system (hardware and software)                                                 1
Supply and installation of the system
Training sessions for the administrators of the system                                         3
Recruitment of a consultant for the selection and implementation of an IP                      1
communication network (voice and data) for the proper functioning of the
communication systems
Extensive post-earthquake customers survey for the development of an up to                     1
date commercial database in CMS (EDH teams reinforced with young interns
hired for the survey operation).
Update of Customers personal data subsequently to the earthquake                          70,000
Recruitment of a consultant for the supervision of the CMS implementation                      1
Supervision of the CMS implementation
Evaluation of the system by external consultants (2011 and 2013)                               2

All planned activities prior to the signing of a contract for the new Commercial Management
system (CMS) supply and installation have been completed.

After an international tender process, the contract was awarded to the Spanish firm INDRA.
Equipment and computer software, as well as the software package have been provided,
configured and installed.

The first operating tests of the CMS have revealed a number of errors and anomalies that the
supplier INDRA has had to correct.

Despite the operational validation of the CMS by EDH, recurrent billing issues conducted the
project to conduct a complete assessment of the software and commercial process. The
consultants hired to evaluate the system reckon that the problems encountered were not related to
CMS software itself, but to the induced changes by its introduction in the internal management of
EDH, and the relatively low level of competence of commercial agents in charge of its operations.
One sustainable outcome of this sub-component on which EDH can build is the commercial
database that has been partially updated subsequently to the 2010 earthquake, by carrying out
extensive surveys during almost four months. Data from nearly 70,000 customers have been
updated, and the number of active customers with up to date data in the system keeps increasing.



                                               22
Purchase and Implementation of a Technical Services Management System (TSMS): for a total
amount of 1,013,455.51 USD

                                 Outcomes                                          Numbers
Recruitment of an external consultant for the definition of technical and                      1
functional characteristics of the TSMS
Definition of TFC for the TSMS                                                                 1
Procurement process for the purchase of the system                                             2
Purchase of the system (hardware and software)                                                 1
Supply and installation of the system
Training sessions for the administrators of the system                                         3
Recruitment of a consultant for the selection and implementation of a radio                    1
repeater network (VHF or UHF) for communication between the Distribution
control center and teams working on the field.
Survey for the development of the technical and commercial database                            1
(combined units of EDH employees and students)
Update of Customers data                                                                  70,000
Recruitment of a consultant for the supervision of the TSMS implementation                     1
Supervision of the TSMS implementation
Evaluation of the system by external consultants                                               1

All activities prior to the signing of a contract for Technical Services Management System
(TSMS) supply and installation have been completed. Just like the CMS, the contract was
awarded to the Spanish firm INDRA after an international tender process.

Equipment, computer software, and software package have been provided, configured and
installed.

Training of instructors and users has been made. As requested by the purchaser EDH, additional
training sessions and updates have been made, so that almost 300 technical and commercial staff
received training to use the TSMS.

EDH, has postponed the system implementation several times, due to the non-availability of a
comprehensive and reliable database. The TSMS has been commissioned in January 2012.

For the Call Center and the Control Center, both related to the TSMS, necessary equipment for
their implementation (offices, desks, computer hardware and software) were all provided by the
project, and workspaces for these services were arranged by EDH.

An extensive customer satisfaction survey for CMS and TSMS users has started in early 2014.
First findings (as of end March 2014) tend to demonstrate that the new EDH computerized
management systems have somewhat contributed to deliver a better service to clients, but that all
the commercial chain has to embrace the cultural change process linked to these systems for the
overall service to be truly efficient.


Component II:
The implementation of a new approach of sales management focused on the customers, with the
supply and the installation of remote meters to all EDH industrial customers (approximately 70 %
of EDH commercial revenues in 2005).


                                               23
Many approaches have been considered in order to improve EDH sales management. Each
subproject is assessed individually below.

Support to the strengthening of the Anti-Fraud Unit: for a total amount of 62,562.58 USD

                                     Outcomes                                            Numbers
Recruitment of an external consultant to assist in the hiring of Anti-Fraud unit’s                 1
Head.
Strengthening of the anti-fraud unit with new EDH staff                                            1
Purchase of Supplies, furniture, and equipment for offices
Training sessions for the anti-fraud members                                                       2

All activities planned for the restructuration of the Anti-Fraud Unit were realized. Another
external consultant has been recruited to support EDH with the restructuration of the unit. He
also provided training for managers, technicians, and support staff of the Anti-Fraud Unit.

Office furniture and equipment planned for the Anti-Fraud Unit project have been bought and
delivered.

Despite the Unit recommendations to EDH Board of directors, nothing has been to limit the
electricity theft. As a result, total technical losses in the Port-au-Prince area were 45.9% in 2007,
they reached 58.3% for the fiscal year 2012-2013.

Pilot project of Prepaid Meters and intervention within the slums: for a total amount of 41,923.05
USD

                                     Outcomes                                            Numbers
Recruitment of a local consultant for the relations with the slums                                 1
Social and Economic studies for energy access within the slums                                     1
Recruitment of an external consultant to prepare key documents and supervise                       1
prepaid electricity meters’ installation
Definition of technical and financial criteria for the prepaid electricity meters                  1

The PREPSEL, in its initial design, was aimed to have a positive impact on all type of customers:
large industrial customers, mixed socio-economic areas, and slums.
For the latest group, a local consultant was hired to study the challenge of supplying electricity in
the slums near the project area, and also to propose new solutions to do so. The contract was
terminated because of the consultant's unsatisfactory performance.
A pilot project to install prepaid electricity meters has been introduced in the PREPSEL. It
included the installation of a number of prepaid electricity meters in slums, residential areas, and
medium-sized commercial areas. An external consultant was hired to assist EDH in the definition
of the Technical and Functional Characteristics, and in the process of purchasing, installing, and
supervising these meters.

The process came to the phase of awarding a contract to the firm Landis & Gyr. However, after
the January 12, 2010 earthquake, it was decided to restructure the project, and to eliminate some
non-essential subprojects, including this prepaid meters activity.




                                                 24
Purchase and Implementation of “Remote Meters” for EDH large business customers: for a total
amount of 1,409,682.09 USD

                                     Outcomes                                            Numbers
Recruitment of an external consultant for the definition of technical and functional               1
characteristics of the remotely-controlled electricity meters, and for the supervision
of their installation
Definition of technical specifications for the remotely-controlled electricity meters              1
Procurement process to purchase the meters and have them installed                                 3
Supply of the meters                                                                             500
Installation of the meters                                                                        72
Training sessions                                                                                  1
Survey to collect data from large business customers and diagnostics                               1

One of the PREPSEL’s specific objectives was to increase EDH’s revenues in order to reduce the
budget transfer from MEF to this utility. The project’s initial objective was to install remotely-
controlled meters for all EDH major consumers (about 2,500, customers, representing 70% of
company revenues). For this purpose, a series of activities were carried out, such as surveys with
major clients, the hiring of an external consultant for the preparation of technical and functional
characteristics of remotely-controlled meters to install, the preparation and publication of the call
of tenders for the supply and installation of these meters.

Two calls of tenders were tendered out respectively on November 7, 2008, and on January 24,
2011. They were unsuccessful due to insufficient budget: smallest offer was above US$ 3.6
million, more than twice the estimated budget. Interestingly, a very similar market that was
ongoing in the neighboring country of Dominican Republic – under a World Bank loan to the
Government – revealed that the same firms proposed the same remote meter and same installation
/ maintenance service for a proposed price representing one third of the price proposed to EDH.
An ex-post analysis of this discrepancy demonstrated that the suppliers estimate a very high
implementation risk at EDH, which explained this important premium in their offers.

A third was prepared and tendered on October 7, 2011, for the supply and installation of a smaller
number of meters (500 meters). The contract was signed between EDH and the awarded firm
INDRA on May 15, 2012. The expected end date was set for February 14, 2013. This end date
was extended to August 31, 2013, to compensate for delays of materials delivery and problems
encountered during the installation of the first meters.

This subproject has had mitigated outcomes. On the 500 meters supplied to EDH, only 72 have
been successfully installed by August 31, 2013. The reasons for these results are various, and
should be shared between the two parties. INDRA and its subcontractor NAFTEX made mistakes
in equipment orders, which caused delays in delivery. According to the Buyer EDH, supplied
materials were not of quality, and installation staff showed lack of required skills. The Technical
team of EDH, supported by TetraTech specialists, were too lengthy to respond to INDRA’s
requests. In addition, a pilot project recommended by Tetra tech experts generated important
delays in the whole activity: implementation time for this pilot project, including time taken by
TetraTech to enable or disable meters installed by INDRA, corresponded almost to the time of
installation of 500 remotely-controlled meters.


Component III:


                                                 25
The implementation of a communications strategy at the same time external and internal, the
management of the PREPSEL such as: the execution, the control, the follow-up and the
evaluation.

Management of the PREPSEL: for a total amount of 1,391,493.00 USD

                                   Outcomes                                        Numbers
Recruitment of the PCU Unit members: Coordinator, Procurement Specialist,                     5
Financial Specialist
Acquisition of Supplies, furniture, and equipment for offices
Audit of the project: recruitment of specialized and authorized firms                         2
Audit reports (annual basis)                                                                  7
Financial reports (every quarter)                                                            29
Management of Procurement Processes                                                         80+
Training sessions for the PCU members                                                        6+

The PCU members were entirely hired by the beginning of November 2006; one Coordinator, one
Procurement Specialist, and one Financial Specialist. Contracts were signed for one year
renewable, and all the members were evaluated at the end of each year.

In November 2007, the Coordinator resigned, followed by the Financial Specialist in January
2008. New procurement processes have been launched and, in May 2008, the PCU had a new
Coordinator and a new Financial Specialist. According to the World Bank Procedures, a new
procurement process for the Audit has been launched after 3 years and a new firm took over until
the end of the project

Due to limited budget, communication activities have been put on hold and have never been
realized.

Component IV:
Technical Assistance to the management of EDH and the strengthening of a special Unit in
charge of the Energy Sector Management (UGSE) connected with the MTPTC.

Technical Assistance to EDH: for a total amount of 2,491,348.93 USD

                                 Outcomes                                         Numbers
Recruitment of an external consultant to support EDH in the selection of                      1
deputy directors.
Elaboration of the TORs for each deputy director                                              4
Procurement process for the recruitment of the deputy directors                               4
Contract negotiated and signed with the deputy directors: 1 for Planning                      4
Department, 1 for Administration and Financial Department, 1 for Technical
Department, 1 for Commercial Department
Lease of apartments for the deputy directors                                                  4
Acquisition of appliances and equipment for their house
Purchase of vehicles                                                                          4
Acquisition of Supplies, furniture, and equipment for offices
Logistical support for the deputy directors: drivers, helpers, cell phones, …         4 of each
Recruitment of an external consultant to realize the mid-term evaluation of the               1


                                               26
deputy directors

The deputy directors were recruited and joined the EDH management team since July 23, 2010.
According to their contracts, the deputy directors produced on a regular basis reports on their
activities. If the experts provided major deliverables (commercial action plan, investment plan
for the rehabilitation of EDH distribution grids), and diffused a commercial and performance
culture amongst EDH staff, the expected impact on EDH performance did not happen.

Technical Assistance to MTPTC with the Creation of a Special Unit in charge of the Energy
Sector Management (ESMU): for a total amount of 462,498.00 USD

                                Outcomes                                          Numbers
Elaboration of the TORs for each ESMU Consultant                                               5
Procurement process for the recruitment of the ESMU Consultants                                5
Lease of work spaces (office for ESMU)                                                         1
Acquisition of Supplies, furniture, and equipment for offices
Logistical support

The Energy Sector Management Unit (ESMU) was created within the Ministry of Public Works,
Transportation, and Communications, to assist the Minister in managing all topics related to the
Energy sector. This structure was aimed to evolve to become either a Direction of Energy, a
Secretariat of State, or, finally, a Ministry of Energy.

Three local consultants were hired in April 2010 to assist the Coordinator in implementing the
ESMU. Thereafter, an Administrative Assistant and staff were recruited. They organized key
events for the Energy sector dialogue and supported the – albeit irregular - publication of the
Electricity sector dashboard to MEF website. The ESMU pursued its activities with reduced staff,
until the appointment of its Coordinator, Dr. Rene Jean-Jumeau, as Secretary of state for Energy,
and then as Delegate Minister in charge of Energy security.

The ESMU is then transformed and expanded to become the Office of the Minister in Charge of
Energy Security. Archives are kept by the Minister, as well as equipment and materials acquired
under the PREPSEL.

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

PREPSEL was mainly oriented towards the rehabilitation of EDH infrastructure, and the
issues to be addressed were primarily of a financial nature: improving billing and
collection through management systems and modern customer service technology.
Consequently, the benefits of the project are mainly financial, although they have wider
consequences: implementation of PREPSEL would rehabilitate EDH by transferring
resources from users who are not paying for electricity service to EDH - either because of
faulty billing, lack of meters, administrative negligence or theft - and this would reduce
the transfers from the public budget, thereby allowing the resources to be oriented
towards other higher priority sectors (e.g. health, education, or housing).
Nevertheless, the reduction of commercial losses has economic consequences as it leads
to a better reallocation of resources and a reduction of waste. The analysis proceeds by


                                              27
evaluating the economic benefits of the project (to the economy as a whole) and by
evaluating the financial benefits to EDH.

Economic analysis
The project included four components (the fourth was added after the AF was agreed in
2009): (i) adoption and implementation of modern commercial and service management
systems for EDH, (ii) improving service to clients and increasing revenues billed and
collected for EDH, (iii) execution, evaluation, and replication of the project through
strategic participation, and (iv) technical assistance to EDH management.
The indicators evolved during project execution; the benefits of the project would be
evaluated according to performance regarding (a) improved financial performance of
EDH as tracked through the CRI, and (b) improved service quality to customers as
tracked by the percent of customers served at least 6 hours/day on average in EDH areas
of supply.


Benefits associated with improvements in the CRI
The Cash Recovery Index combines the billing rate and the collection rate:
CRI = Billing Rate * Collection Rate
               Where
Billing Rate = Energy Billed (kWh) / Energy injected to the network (kWh) and
Collection Rate = Paid Bills (in US$) / Billed Energy (in US$)
Energy injected (kWh) = Energy Billed + Technical Losses + Commercial Losses


Improvements in the billing rate are associated with a reduction in technical losses and/or
a reduction in commercial losses. Technical losses have not been assessed, but they have
been estimated at 12.5% of energy injected.
The analysis of commercial loss reduction is more involved. Figure A3-1 illustrates the
demand curve for users who are the subject of commercial loss reduction measures.




                                            28
    Figure A3-1-Economic and Financial Effects of Commercial Loss Reduction




In this figure, Q0 is the energy consumed by users who are accountable for commercial
losses; the initial consumption point is (P0, Q0); P0 is not zero because users may be
paying for the service, albeit at a low cost (for example through meter tampering). When
commercial losses are reduced, users start to pay price P1 (the tariff) and the new
equilibrium obtains at (P1, Q1) because of a price elasticity effect. In this process,
   •   Consumer surplus is reduced by area D;
   •   The producer saves the cost of supplying Q0 – Q1, which is equivalent to area
       E+D+G. As the consumer was paying P0, the supplier’s net saving is D+E;
   •   The net welfare savings are thus D+E-D= area E. This is the net economic
       benefit of the reduction of commercial losses.
This benefit accrues even though the supply cost is still above the price (P1) charged by
the producer.
From a financial point of view,
   •   The producer saves areas D+E due to lower consumption;
   •   Users now pay for area C, which they did not pay before the adjustment;
   •   Consequently the financial benefit of commercial loss reduction is given by area
       C+E+D.
The financial benefit of commercial loss reduction measures is always higher than the
economic benefit (which could be quite modest depending on the price elasticity of
demand).
The economic and financial evaluation will be conducted according to the previous
methodology, using reasonable assumptions regarding the price elasticity of demand, as
well as the P0/P1 ratio.



                                           29
Table A3-1 summarizes the evolution of the different components of the CRI between
May’11 and May’13. The table indicates how commercial losses have evolved during
this period.


           Table A3-1 Evolution of CRI, Collection Rate, and Billing Rate
               Billing Rate Collection Rate   CRI    Technical Losses Commercial Losses
    May-11          30%          63%          19%        12.5%            57.5%
    Jun-11          32%          63%          20%        12.5%            55.5%
      Jul-11        33%          65%          21%        12.5%            54.5%
    Aug-11          36%          62%          22%        12.5%            51.5%
    Sep-11          36%          69%          25%        12.5%            51.5%
    Oct-11          35%          69%          24%        12.5%            52.5%
    Nov-11          34%          72%          25%        12.5%            53.5%
    Dec-11          33%          72%          24%        12.5%            54.5%
     Jan-12         32%          74%          24%        12.5%            55.5%
    Feb-12          32%          77%          25%        12.5%            55.5%
    Mar-12          32%          82%          26%        12.5%            55.5%
    Apr-12          32%          92%          29%        12.5%            55.5%
    May-12          32%          93%          30%        12.5%            55.5%
    Jun-12          33%          96%          32%        12.5%            54.5%
      Jul-12        34%          92%          31%        12.5%            53.5%
    Aug-12          35%          95%          33%        12.5%            52.5%
    Sep-12          36%          85%          31%        12.5%            51.5%
    Oct-12          38%          87%          33%        12.5%            49.5%
    Nov-12          39%          84%          33%        12.5%            48.5%
    Dec-12          41%          81%          33%        12.5%            46.5%
     Jan-13         41%          81%          33%        12.5%            46.5%
    Feb-13          40%          82%          33%        12.5%            47.5%
    Mar-13          41%          76%          31%        12.5%            46.5%
    Apr-13          41%          71%          29%        12.5%            46.5%
    May-13          43%          66%          28%        12.5%            44.5%


The management contract together with the management support to EDH helped to
reduce commercial losses from 55% in May 2012 to 45% in May 2013; this is an
important achievement, but it must be continued in order to reduce commercial losses to
at least 30% in the next three or four years.
A first approximation to the benefits achieved with documented loss reduction can be
estimated taking as a baseline January 2012 when the contractor for the CMS and the
TSMS was on the last lap of putting in place the systems by loading them with the
customer database (the contract terminated in April 2012). The results are shown in
Table A3-2. The economic benefits of the project on a monthly basis are substantial with
the assumptions indicated in the table, and they reach around $450 thousand in June 2013.
However, the financial benefits are much more considerable, as they reach $3.4 million in




                                              30
June 2013. This table illustrates the importance that should be attributed to commercial
loss reduction for improving the financial condition of the utility.


                                Table A3-2 Estimation of Economic and Financial Benefits
                                                                           Jan-12              Apr-12                  Jul-12                   Oct-12                 Jan-13                 Apr-13            May-13                Jun-13
Net Energy GWh                                                              80.43               81.64                  82.87                     84.12                  85.39                  86.68             87.11                 87.55
Comm. Loss w/o project %                                                     56%                     56%                   56%                        56%                    56%                 56%                 56%                 56%
Comm. Loss w/o project GWh                                                    45                      45                    46                         47                     47                  48                  48                  49
Comm. Loss w project %                                                       56%                     56%                54%                       50%                        47%                 47%                 45%                 45%
Comm. Loss w Project GWh                                                       45                      45                    44                         42                     40                  40                  39                  39
Loss Reduction (Q 1 ) GWh                                                      0.0                     0.0                   1.7                        5.0                    7.7                 7.8                 9.6                 9.6
Elasticity                                                                   -0.4                    -0.4                  -0.4                       -0.4                   -0.4                -0.4                -0.4                -0.4
P0 /P 1 ratio                                                                  0.1                     0.1                   0.1                        0.1                    0.1                 0.1                 0.1                 0.1
Q 0 Increment GWh                                                                0                       0                     2                          7                    10                  11                  13                  13
P1 Price US$/MWh                                                              290                     290                   290                        290                    290                 290                 290                 290
Supply Cost US$/MWh                                                           290                     290                   290                        290                    290                 290                 290                 290
Economic Benefit M$                                                          0.00                    0.00                  0.08                       0.24                   0.36                0.37                0.45                0.45
Financial Benefit M$                                                        0.00                     0.00               0.59                      1.79                       2.73                2.77                3.40               3.42




The costs associated with the CRI improvements include the CMS and TSMS system
($3.5 million), a fraction of the management support provided by the AF of PREPSEL
($3.2 million), and some of the cost associated with the Haiti Transition Management
Contract supported by USAID (estimated at around $1.8 million), for a total of about
$8.5 million over Oct’10 to Apr’13.
For economic evaluation purposes, a conservative assumption would consist of
improving the level of commercial losses from 44.5% in June 2013 to 40 percent in
December 2014. This would yield the cash flow illustrated in Table A3-3.


                                                      Table A3-3 Cash Flow of Economic Benefits
                              Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12
Economic Benefits (M$)          0.00   0.00   0.00 0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00 0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
Costs
CMS Costs                         0.5                     0.5                0.5                     0.5               0.5                      0.5                                                 0.5
Delegate Directors                0.2       0.2           0.2      0.2       0.2        0.2          0.2       0.2     0.2         0.2          0.2       0.2         0.2        0.2       0.2      0.2
TMS costs                                                                                                                                                                                  0.2      0.2        0.2     0.2      0.2            0.2
Total costs                       0.7      0.2          0.7         0.2      0.7        0.2        0.7          0.2     0.7   0.2            0.7           0.2         0.2       0.2       0.4      0.9        0.2     0.2      0.2            0.2
Net Benefits                    -0.70    -0.20        -0.70       -0.20    -0.70      -0.20      -0.70        -0.20   -0.70 -0.20          -0.70         -0.20       -0.20     -0.20     -0.40    -0.90      -0.20   -0.20    -0.20          -0.20

                         Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14
Economic Benefits (M$)     0.04 0.08     0.12   0.16   0.24   0.28   0.36 0.36     0.32   0.36   0.37   0.45   0.45 0.45     0.48   0.50   0.52   0.53   0.55 0.57     0.58   0.58   0.61   0.61   0.61 0.61     0.64   0.64   0.67   0.67   0.70
Costs
CMS Costs
Delegate Directors
TMS costs                   0.2   0.2     0.2       0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2
Total costs                 0.2   0.2     0.2       0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2
Net Benefits              -0.16 -0.12   -0.08     -0.04    0.04     0.08    0.16     0.16     0.12     0.16    0.17    0.25    0.25      0.45     0.48        0.50    0.52     0.53    0.55    0.57   0.58    0.58   0.61    0.61     0.61     0.61   0.64   0.64   0.67   0.67   0.70




With these assumptions, the investment in CMS and TSMS yields an NPV of $1.76
million and an EIRR of 15%.
The financial benefits are ten times larger than the economic benefits and the investment
easily pays for itself during 2013.
Finally, it must be noted that the economic and financial evaluations have been assessed
separately, but from a wider perspective the financial benefits also translate into
economic benefits in the long run, as a viable EDH will reduce the flow of public funds



                                                                                                                      31
to support the enterprise, thereby freeing them for investing in other sectors which are
more dependent on Government resources.
Discussion of results and sensitivity analysis. An EIRR of 15% is surprising for a
project which continues to show indicators that are not within the expected range
assumed when it was designed. This can be explained because, although the CRI remains
within non-viable levels, the results achieved regarding commercial losses are
considerable, around 10GWh per month as of June’13; although economic benefits are
small relative to financial benefits, they are still considerable enough to justify the
investment, together with the cost of additional human resources support (the directeurs
délégués).
Nevertheless, the economic benefits depend upon factors which are taken as assumptions
and can only be evaluated with considerable difficulty, namely the price elasticity of
demand, and the P0/P1 ratio. The price elasticity of demand for electricity has been
studied under different contexts; a recent study22 reports the following values:




An earlier study23 focused on residential demand reported elasticities that vary between
-0.35 (short run) and -0.85 (long run). A study on electricity demand applied to Latin
America, which included Costa Rica, Paraguay, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, and
Mexico reported long run price elasticities that vary around -0.45 to -0.65 depending on
the sector and the country24. Finally, an analysis for Ecuador25 found much lower price
elasticities for all sectors, on the order of -0.1.
The price elasticity used in the base case calculations is -0.4, which is within the range
estimated by the different studies (but not specifically for Haiti). A sensitivity analysis
with respect to the price elasticity of demand was conducted for more inelastic demands
(i.e. more pessimistic conditions), and yielded the following results:


22
   Neenan, B. and Jiyong, E. “Price Elasticity of Demand for Electricity: a Primer and Synthesis”, Electric Power Research Institute,
Palo Alto, CA, January 2008

23
  Espey, J. and Espey, M. “Turning on the Lights: a Meta-Analysis of Residential Electricity Demand Elasticities”, Journal of
Agricultural and Applied Economics, April 2004, pp. 65-81

24
   Westley, Glenn, “New Directions in Econometric Modeling of Energy Demand”, Inter-American Development Bank, Washington,
DC, February 1992.

25
  Lecaros, Fernando “Estudio Sectorial de la Demanda por Energía Eléctrica en el Ecuador”, Instituto Ecuatoriano de Electrificación
(INECEL) and Inter-American Development Bank, April 1986




                                                                32
                                   Table A3-4 Sensitivity of Economic Results to the Price Elasticity of Demand
                                          ε=-0.1                ε=-0.2               ε=-0.3                 ε=-0.4
                          NPV (M$)         -6.50                 -3.75                -0.99                  1.76
                          EIRR (%)         -41%                  -17%                  0%                    15%



As can be seen, a low price elasticity of demand yields a low economic return, which is
normal: with inelastic demand, price becomes less and less relevant from an economic
point of view.
The second variable mentioned above concerns the P0/P1 ratio; P0 is the price paid by
users responsible for commercial losses, and it is not necessarily zero, as losses could be
due, for example, to faulty meters that provide a reading below the real value. The
analysis assumes a ratio 0.1. If it is higher, benefits will decrease, and vice versa, as
shown in the following table:


                                                                Table A3-5 Sensitivity of Economic Results to the P0/P1 ratio
                            P0/P1                                0.05                   0.1                0.2                                                                                  0.3
                          NPV (M$)                               3.02                  1.76               -0.55                                                                               -2.59
                          EIRR (%)                               21%                   15%                 3%                                                                                  -9%



As expected, an increase in the ratio to around 0.15 leads to an EIRR below the cutoff
12% rate.


Financial Analysis
Table A3-6 shows the financial benefits of the project and the corresponding cash flow.
                                                                        Table A3-6 Cash Flow of Financial Benefits
                                     Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 Jan-11 Feb-11 Mar-11 Apr-11 May-11 Jun-11 Jul-11 Aug-11 Sep-11 Oct-11 Nov-11 Dec-11 Jan-12 Feb-12 Mar-12 Apr-12 May-12
Financial Benefits (M$)                   0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0
Costs
CMS Costs                                  0.5        0          0.5       0          0.5        0      0.5            0      0.5            0     0.5        0         0        0            0    0.5            0       0            0        0
Delegate Directors                         0.2      0.2          0.2     0.2          0.2      0.2      0.2          0.2      0.2          0.2     0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2          0.2    0.2            0       0            0        0
TMS costs                                    0        0            0       0            0        0        0            0        0            0       0        0         0        0          0.2    0.2          0.2     0.2          0.2      0.2
Total costs                                0.7      0.2          0.7     0.2          0.7      0.2      0.7          0.2      0.7          0.2     0.7      0.2       0.2      0.2          0.4    0.9          0.2     0.2          0.2      0.2
Net Benefits                              -0.7     -0.2         -0.7    -0.2         -0.7     -0.2     -0.7         -0.2     -0.7         -0.2    -0.7     -0.2      -0.2     -0.2         -0.4   -0.9         -0.2    -0.2         -0.2     -0.2

                           Jun-12 Jul-12 Aug-12 Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14
Financial Benefits (M$)      0.29 0.59 0.89 1.19 1.79 2.10 2.71 2.73 2.44 2.76 2.77 3.40 3.42 3.44 3.61 3.79 3.96 3.98 4.16 4.34 4.37 4.39 4.57 4.60 4.62 4.64 4.83 4.86 5.05 5.07 5.27
Costs
CMS Costs                      0      0      0      0       0       0     0      0        0     0      0        0      0     0        0       0     0      0     0      0     0        0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0     0      0
Delegate Directors             0      0      0      0       0       0     0      0        0     0      0        0      0     0        0       0     0      0     0      0     0        0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0     0      0
TMS costs                    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2     0.2   0.2    0.2      0.2   0.2    0.2      0.2    0.2     0        0       0     0      0     0      0     0        0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0     0      0
Total costs                  0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2     0.2     0.2   0.2    0.2      0.2   0.2    0.2      0.2    0.2     0        0       0     0      0     0      0     0        0      0     0      0       0     0      0        0     0      0
Net Benefits                 0.1    0.4    0.7    1.0     1.6     1.9   2.5    2.5      2.2   2.6    2.6      3.2    3.2   3.4      3.6     3.8   4.0    4.0   4.2    4.3   4.4      4.4    4.6   4.6    4.6     4.6   4.8    4.9      5.0   5.1    5.3




At 12% discount rate, the cash flow of financial benefits yields a NPV of $64 million,
and a financial IRR of 191%. As expected, the financial benefits exceed by far the
economic benefits of the project.
Regarding the sensitivity analysis, the corresponding variations yield the results shown in
Tables A3-7 and A3-8.



                                                                                                                           33
                   Table A3-7 Sensitivity of Financial Results to the Price Elasticity of Demand
                          ε=-0.1                 ε=-0.2                ε=-0.3                ε=-0.4
        NPV (M$)           49.8                   54.7                  59.5                  64.4
         IRR (%)          162%                   172%                  182%                  191%
                           Table A3-5 Sensitivity of Financial Results to the P0/P1 ratio
          P0/P1             0.05                  0.1                   0.2                    0.3
        NPV (M$)            69.6                 64.4                  54.3                   44.7
        EIRR (%)           200%                 191%                  172%                   152%



Independently of the assumptions regarding the parameters, the financial benefits always
yield positive results. This corroborates a well-known adage in the power sector: “there
is no better investment than to reduce commercial losses”.




                                                        34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
           Names                                Title               Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Solange Alliali                 Senior Counsel                     LEGLA      Legal
Karen Bazex                     Energy Specialist                   LCSFE     Consultant
Erik Magnus Fernstrom           Lead Energy Specialist              AFTG2     Energy
Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier Power Engineer                     AFTEG      Electricity
Mangesh Hoskote                 Senior Power Sector Specialist      AFTG1     Electricity
Ghislaine Kieffer               E T Consultant                    LCSFR-HIS   Consultant
Patricia E. Macgowan            Procurement Specialist             LCOPR Procurement
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye        Senior FM Specialist               LCOAA Financial Mgt.
                                                                          Task Team
Clemencia Torres De Mastle      Senior Energy Specialist           AFTG2
                                                                          Leader
Paul Altidor                    Consultant                          LCSFE Consultant
Ulrich Cedric Myboto            Consultant                         LCSER Consultant
Maria Elena Castro              Senior Social Scientist            LCSEO Social
Charles M. Feinstein            Sector Leader                      LCSFP
Hilarion Bruneau                Senior Finance Officer             LOAG1      Financial Mgt
Xiaoping Wang                   Energy Specialist                  LCSFE      Energy
Supervision/ICR
                                                                              Task Team
Frederic Verdol                 Power Engineer                     LCSEG
                                                                              Leader
                                                                              Task Team
Karen Bazex                     Energy Specialist                  LCSEG
                                                                              Leader
Pedro Antmann                   Senior Energy Specialist           LCSEG
Fernanda Pacheco                Program Assistant                  LCSEG
Maria E. Castro-Munoz           Consultant                         LCSHH
Josue Akre                      Financial Management Specialist    LCCHT
Hector Farina                   Consultant                         LCSEG
Fowzia Hassan                   Energy Specialist                  MNSEE
Michel E. Layec                 Consultant                         AFTG1
Fernando Lecaros                Consultant                         AFTG2
Alois Ndorere                   Consultant                         LCSPT
Joseph Kizito Mubiru            Lead Financial Management Spec     LCSFM
Betonus Pierre                  Consultant                         LCSEG
Yao Wottor                      Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Alberto J. Zoratti              Consultant                         LCSEG
                                                                              Task Team
Christophe de Gouvello          Senior Energy Specialist           LCSEG
                                                                              Leader




                                                  35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                      46.19                    250.89
  FY07                                       7.90                     39.65
  FY08                                       0.18                      6.00
                          Total:            54.30                    296.54
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                     0.00                        0.00
  FY07                                    34.51                      154.78
  FY08                                    24.19                      101.39
  FY09                                    24.09                      102.38
  FY10                                    42.98                      181.93
  FY11                                    71.20                      281.73
  FY12                                    22.33                      106.36
  FY13                                    29.42                      113.50
                          Total:         248.73                     1042.07




                                       36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


4.1    This Annex summarizes the EDH Staff and Clients Satisfaction Surveys conducted in
February and March 2014. The surveys were entirely focused on the PREPSEL project activities
and results, in order to estimate the level of impact of each activity, but also the level of
knowledge of the overall project (outside of the direct stakeholders of the project).


Context:
4.2     PREPSEL Beneficiaries are (i) EDH and MTPTC staff provided with technical assistance
and information systems, (ii) EDH industrial customers provided with remote meters, and (iii)
EDH overall customers benefiting from the improvement of electricity service. Assessments took
place during the project for EDH staff direct beneficiaries, subsequently to training sessions or
other experience exchanges funded under the project.
4.3      The satisfaction surveys have been conducted by EDH between February 16, 2014 and
March 10, 2014. EDH Managing Director hired a consultant to organize and monitor these
surveys, as EDH Commercial Division did not take action to conduct these surveys26. Main
objectives were to assess the impact and perception of (i) the installation of the information
systems (CMS and CSMS), (ii) the technical assistance to EDH Management through the
international experts / Delegate Directors, and (iii) the installation of remote meters to EDH
industrial customers.
4.4      During the survey period, 122 EDH staff and 126 EDH Clients have completed the
survey. It is interesting to note that the proportion of individuals who did not want to do the
survey was more important amongst EDH staff, despite the fact that EDH hired external
consultants to conduct the assessment. This is partly due to the very unusual nature of this
exercise inside EDH, and to the latent ‘fear of accountability’ which is impeding personal
initiatives (e.g., innovation) inside EDH.


Main Results:
4.5      With no surprise, the PREPSEL was better known inside EDH than by the utility’s
clients: 71% of staff questioned knew the project and its activities, against 13% for the customers.
This is partly due to the presence of the four international experts as EDH Delegate Directors for
almost 2 years (3 years for the financial expert), the longest in house mission of individuals inside
the company. The communication actions initiated by these consultants contributed to spread the
knowledge of the PREPSEL activities, and more generally the performance and commercial
culture inside EDH.
4.6      The above result provides a relative understanding of the perception of EDH
improvement by the beneficiaries: if 56% of EDH clients think that the company is progressively
improving, only 39% of EDH staff believes that the PREPSEL has contributed to this
improvement. A detailed assessment of EDH staff answers show that they strongly believe in the


26
 EDH Commercial managers’ inertia has conducted MTPTC to request the WB to extend the deadline – from February 28, 2014 to
April 30, 2014 - for submission of the Recipient’s completion report, engendering the extension for the submission of this ICR.




                                                              37
positive impact of information systems, and are less convinced by the direct impact of remote
meters and technical assistance (respectively, 71%, 47% and 26% of staff who evaluated the
impact rather positive for the 3 main activities).
4.7     The main lessons learned from this assessment is the relative positive external perception
of EDH improvement, on the overall level of service and in particular on the commercial
services. Despite some important issues with the billing, the clients noticed substantial
improvements in the bills recovery (mostly industrial clients, due to the creation of a dedicated
service inside EDH Commercial Division), and on the metering and technical assistance to a
lesser extent. The replication of these customer management methods to smaller customers will
progressively allow having a harmonized efficiency on bills recovery, complementing the
implementation of the action plan for the billing improvement.




                                               38
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

***Insert letter from Client commenting on Bank’s draft ICR and summarize a few key
points (with Team response) in Section 7 of Main Text




                                         39
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Recipient’s Completion Report:

7.1     Le Projet de Réduction des Pertes dans le Secteur Electrique (PREPSEL) avait
pour objectif principal de réduire les pertes techniques et commerciales sur le réseau de
l’Electricité d’Haïti. Ses objectifs de développement étaient de :
• Contribuer à améliorer de façon durable la qualité des services d’électricité fournis à
    la clientèle
• Contribuer à renforcer les performances financières et opérationnelles de l’Electricité
    d’Haïti.
• Réduire à moyen et long termes les transferts de fonds du Trésor Public vers le
    Secteur Electricité.
• Et de renforcer l’Unité de Gestion du Secteur de l’Energie rattachée au MTPTC.

7.2     Le tableau suivant donne les principales dates et informations importantes du
Projet de Réduction des Pertes dans le Secteur Electrique.

   Projet de Réduction des Pertes dans le Secteur               Financement
                     Electrique
 Identification des Prêts /Dons                     BM IDA H 251- BM IDA H 510-
                                                    0- HA           0-HT
 Project ID                                         PO98531         PO98531
 Approbation                                        03/08/06        08/09/09
 Signature de l’Accord de don                       11/09/06        02/11/09
 Entrée en vigueur                                  31/07/07        15/12/09
 Clôture 1                                          28/02/13        28/02/13
 Clôture 2                                          31/08/13        31/08/13
 Date limite des demandes de décaissement           31/12/13        31/12/13
 Montant du don en US $ (approuvé)                  6 000 000       5 000 000
 Montant décaissé (31 décembre 2013) en US $        5 808 309       4 490 206
 Montant non décaissé en US $                         191 691         509 754
 Taux de décaissement par don                            97 %           90 %
 Montant total des deux dons en US $                          11 000 000
 Montant total décaissé en US $                               10 298 514
 Taux de décaissement global                                     94 %

7.3    Structure de Gestion du PREPSEL . Afin d’assurer une gestion agile du
PREPSEL, une structure organisationnelle simplifiée comprenant deux Unités ayant des
responsabilités distinctes a été mise sur pied. Il s’agit de :


                                           40
1- L’Unité de Coordination de Projets (UCP), constituée d’un nombre restreint de
   consultants et dépendant du Ministère des Travaux Publics. L’UCP gérait les aspects
   administratifs et financiers du Projet et servait d’interface entre les Consultants, les
   Fournisseurs de biens ou de services, la Direction de l’E’d’H, le Ministère des
   TPTEC, le Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances et les Bailleurs multilatéraux
   comme la Banque Mondiale et la Banque Interaméricaine de Développement.

2- L’Unité Technique de Projet (UTP), composée de cadres de l’Ed’H et dépendant de la
   Direction Générale de l’Ed’H. L’UTP traitait les aspects techniques du projet. Elle
   était souvent appuyée par des consultants externes recrutés par l’UCP et payés à partir
   des ressources du projet. Cet appui était apporté particulièrement dans les domaines
   où l’Ed’H ne disposait pas de compétences.

L’UCP et l’UTP travaillaient en étroite collaboration pour la réalisation de tous les
processus de passation de marché du PREPSEL et le suivi des contrats qui en découlaient.

La mise en place d’une UTP et d’une UCP fortes et fonctionnelles a été l’une des
conditions préalables pour la mise en œuvre du PREPSEL. Le Bénéficiaire ultime, Ed’H,
avait procédé rapidement, en novembre 2006, a leur mise en place conformément a ce qui
était prévu dans l’accord de Don IDA H2510.

Suite à sa création, l’UCP a joué son rôle d’interface entre les différentes parties
prenantes pour assurer la coordination des différentes activités du projet. Elle a aidé à
l’avancement du projet notamment en gérant les processus de recrutement des consultants
locaux et étrangers, les processus d’acquisition de biens et de services, et tous les aspects
administratifs et financiers du projet.

De sa date d’approbation (3 aout 2006) à sa date de clôture (31 décembre 2013), les frais
de gestion du PREPSEL totalisent 913,315.27 US$ soit 8.87 % du montant total décaissé.
Le tableau 9-3 et le graphe en tarte ci-dessous donnent la répartition détaillée de ce
montant.




                                             41
7.4     La Gestion Financière du PREPSEL La situation financière du PREPSEL à sa
date de clôture est résumée par le tableau ci-dessous. Au 31 décembre 2013, le montant
total avancé par la Banque à l’Unité de Coordination de Projet (UCP) s’élève a : 10 298
514.44 dollars américains soit 93.63% de l’enveloppe globale du projet qui était de : 11
000 000.00US $. Le solde budgétaire total : 701 486.56 représente le montant qui n’a pas
été décaissé et gardé par la Banque.
7.5    De façon plus imagée, les graphes en tarte ci-dessous donnent la répartition des
décaissements par Composante et par Catégorie.




                                          42
Considérations générales sur l’exécution du PREPSEL
7.6     Le PREPSEL : Une opportunité pour le Redressement de l’Ed’H. Le Projet
de Réduction des Pertes dans le Secteur Electrique (PREPSEL) était un projet pilote de
changement organisationnel qui devrait apporter des transformations majeures dans la
gestion interne de l’Ed’H et qui reposait sur deux volets complémentaires : i)
l’implantation de nouveaux systèmes de gestion informatisée de l’Ed’H et ii) un appui à
la gestion interne de l’entreprise . Sa mise en œuvre effective en aout 2006 avait suscité
beaucoup d’espoir . Car sa réussite devrait inciter la Banque ainsi que les autres bailleurs
à contribuer beaucoup plus au redressement du sous-secteur électricité en Haïti.


7.7      Le PREPSEL a été développé dans un environnement hostile, résistant au
changement. Lors de sa mise en œuvre effective, le projet a du faire face a un
environnement interne plutôt hostile, résistant au changement, qui a rendu très difficile
l’atteinte des objectifs fixés dans les délais impartis. On a ainsi constaté une forte
résistance au changement de la part de certains responsables clés de Ed’H, notamment au
niveau de la Direction commerciale et du Département du Système d’Informations, les
plus touchés par le projet. Il a fallu l’intervention « musclée » du Directeur Général pour
qu’une copie de la Base de Données Commerciales soit remise a INDRA pour
commencer ses travaux d’analyse. Une collaboration tiède a été apportée au Fournisseur
INDRA; comme conséquence, le projet a cumulé des retards importants et les systèmes
SGC et SGST n’ont été mis en route qu’à la fin du projet.
7.8     Le Séisme du 12 janvier 2010 a perturbé le déroulement du PREPSEL. Le
séisme du 12 janvier 2010 a perturbé le déroulement normal du projet ( plusieurs mois
d’inactivités) et a entrainé sa restructuration. Certains sous-projets comme la



                                            43
réhabilitation des circuits de la zone pilote, l’installation des compteurs à carte prépayée
et les interventions dans les bidonvilles ont été éliminées. Néanmoins, le Projet a réussi à
implanter les systèmes de gestion SGC, SGST, le Call Center et le Centre de conduite du
réseau.
7.9     Les faiblesses du Département Informatique et l’absence de décision pour sa
restructuration.
Le maillon faible dans la mise en place de ces systèmes est le Département du Système
d’information de l’Ed’H. Malgré les recommandations du fournisseur INDRA, du
Consultant Eduardo Bergerie et aussi les visites d’entreprise réalisées à EDESTE et à
EDESUR en République Dominicaine, aucune action concrète n’a été prise pour adapter
la structure du DSI aux exigences minima que requiert la gestion des nouveaux systèmes
SGC, SGST et RMS. Pour une gestion efficace des systèmes, INDRA avait recommandé
d‘avoir au moins 7 spécialistes : un Administrateur du système, un responsable
fonctionnel pour chaque Application, un Spécialiste en base de données, un Spécialiste en
Unix et un Spécialiste en Oracle. Les Directions qui se sont succédées à Ed’H ont tous
reconnu les lacunes du DSI, mais n’ont entrepris jusqu'à présent aucune action appropriée
pour y remédier.
7.10   Le recrutement des 4 Directeurs Délégués.
Le PREPSEL avait pu recruter, dans le contexte difficile qui prévalait en 2010, quatre
Experts internationaux (Directeurs Délégués) pour aider la Direction Générale de l’Ed’H
dans la gestion quotidienne des activités de l’entreprise. Ils avaient commencé leurs
mandats à partir du 23 juillet 2010. Les résultats de leurs présences sont peu visibles ; car
n’ayant aucune autorité, leurs actions se résumaient en des diagnostics et des
recommandations qui ne sont pas toujours suivis.


7.12   .Recommandations:
Le PREPSEL a été mis en œuvre, il y a sept (7) ans. Il est clôturé le 31 août 2013. Les
systèmes SGC et SGST ont été fournis et installés, les Compteurs contrôlés à distance ont
été partiellement installés, les quatre Directeurs Délégués ont été recrutés et intégrés à
Ed’H. Mais on ne peut pas dire que les objectifs du projet ont été atteints ni qu’il a été
soit un succès ou un échec total. Les résultats obtenus sont plutôt modestes et doivent être
analysés en tenant compte des facteurs internes et externes qui avaient conditionné son
exécution. INDRA est partie. Le Bénéficiaire ED’H doit relever tous les grands défis qui
l’attendent dans la phase d’exploitation Pour assurer la pérennité des résultats du projet,
nous recommandons au Bénéficiaire de :

   a. Signer un contrat de maintenance évolutive avec le Fournisseur des Systèmes.
   b. Mettre en place une structure adéquate pour gérer les systèmes (SGC, SGST et
      RMS). Cela implique la restructuration du département informatique, le
      recrutement d’un personnel compétent et la formation de ce personnel afin qu’il


                                             44
      prenne effectivement en charge l’exploitation et la maintenance des systèmes
      ainsi que la gestion de la Base de Données Commerciales et Techniques.
   c. Assurer la formation continue des utilisateurs finaux des systèmes.
   d. Sensibiliser tout le personnel de l’Entreprise sur les avantages des nouveaux
      systèmes.

Leçons apprises.
7.14 Dans la mesure où on considère le PREPSEL comme un projet pilote, nous
pouvons tirer de cette expérience, les leçons suivantes. Pour tout nouveau projet :
    a. Il est nécessaire que le bénéficiaire soit impliqué dès le début. La première tâche
       est de définir l’Equipe du Bénéficiaire qui servira d’interface avec l’Equipe de la
       Banque en charge du Projet. Cette Equipe doit être nommée officiellement par le
       Conseil de direction du Bénéficiaire.

   b. Le Conseil de Direction doit s’approprier du projet. Il doit s’engager à prendre
      toutes les mesures nécessaires pour faire avancer le projet. On doit prévoir un
      budget pour organiser des retraites périodiques sur l’évolution du projet. Le
      Conseil de Direction doit y participer et au cours desquelles il doit réaffirmer son
      engagement à faire avancer le projet.

   c. Il faut une communication intense avec le niveau le plus bas de l’entreprise pour
      expliquer le projet et les changements qu’il va induire. La communication ne doit
      pas se faire seulement au niveau des cadres supérieurs. Les employés de soutien
      sont ceux qui exécutent au jour le jour le travail et pour bien le faire, il faut qu’ils
      le comprennent et se l’approprient.

   d. Pour certains projets, il est important de s’assurer que le personnel utilisateur final
      ait la capacité intellectuelle requise pour absorber la formation ou le transfert de
      technologie liée à l’implantation du nouveau système.

   e. Il faut prévoir une supervision externe de toutes les activités du projet. On ne peut
      pas compter sur l’Unité Technique de Projet pour cette activité, lorsque cette
      Unité est formée uniquement de cadres Bénéficiaires du Projet.

Le Bailleur et le Bénéficiaire doivent définir conjointement un cadre pour gérer l’Après
projet.




                                             45
Annex 8. Overview of the Haiti Energy and Electricity Sectors


Key Facts and Energy Balance
In 2011, Haiti’s annual primary energy consumption was 2.7 million tons of oil
equivalent (Mtoe), the lowest per capita consumption of the LAC region (0.22 toe/cap.).
After particular energy consumption in 2010 due to the earthquake, the 2011
consumption went back around the 2009 level. The repartition among different energy
uses is fairly constant since the last decade, among industries (17%), transports (19%),
households (62%, mainly for cooking) and Commercial / Public services (2%).

The country’s energy mix is composed of wood fuels (72%), imported oil products (25%)
and hydroelectricity (3%). Oil products imports represent half of the country’s expenses.
Local energy resources, partially or totally untapped, are mainly on hydroelectricity
(potential estimated between 150 MW and 270 MW), wind (at least 50 MW potential,
according to a wind study conducted by the EU in 2006), lignite (proven reserves of 54
Mt, with a poor calorific content) and solar (average horizontal irradiance of 5
kWh/m2.day, only local renewable energy source available for some rural areas).

Power Sector
The Power sector consumes about 20% of Haiti’s fuel imports (diesel and HFO) to
generate the large majority of the electricity produced in the metropolitan area. The table
1 below summarizes the generation capacity in Haiti for each type of fuel, in the
metropolitan area and the 10 smaller grids. The low available capacity is due to
insufficient maintenance and aging plants.

Table 1: Generation capacity
    Interconnected system in Port-au-
                                                   Secondary systems in the provinces
                  Prince
              Installed      Available                         Installed        Available
 (in MW)
              Capacity       Capacity                          Capacity         Capacity
 Diesel         107.5           49                Diesel         38.1             26.3
 HFO             64             32                HFO            27.2             25.5
 Hydro           54             26                Hydro           6.9              2.8
 Total          225.5          157                Total          72.2             54.6
Source: Tetra Tech, March 2012

Four IPPs own and operate 80% of the thermal plants in the metropolitan area: PBM
(34MW HFO), Sogener (36MW Diesel, 20MW HFO), Haytian Tractor (21MW Diesel)
and E-Power (30MW HFO). The capacity in the provinces is mainly operated by the state
power company EDH and the small communities.

The metropolitan zone’s power grid comprises (i) a 56 km transmission line (115 kV)
from the Peligre hydropower plant to Port-au-Prince, (ii) a dispatch center operated
manually and interconnecting three power plants by a 69 kV transmission line of 53 km,
(iii) 9 substations transforming in 69 kV in distribution voltage, and (iii) 32 distribution


                                            46
circuits totalizing 1,029 km and transforming 12.5-7.3 kV in 120-240 V. Punctual and
structural overloads of some distribution lines and of the most part of the transformers are
adding to their increased fragility since the earthquake and lead to a 30% average rate of
technical losses on this grid.

According to EDH as of December 2013, the number of active customers (connected
legally and paying bills) was 224,344; this number represents the 12% of the country’s
population who is legally electrified (electrification rate of 28% representing about
300,000 customers). The 1,270 industrial customers represent about 40% of the power
demand.

Energy Balance and Losses
During the fiscal year 2012/13 (Oct. 2012-Sept. 2013), the total energy generated in Haiti
was about 1,056 GWh. Graph 1 below shows the energy dispatch during this period of
time:

         Graph 1: Energy generated, Losses and collection in 2013 (in GWh)



         120

         100

          80                                                           Recovered Public
                                                                       Recovered Private
          60
                                                                       Billed and Not Recovered

          40                                                           Commercial Losses
                                                                       Technical Losses
          20

           0




                                      Source: EDH, March 2014

Revenues generated by EDH from the energy collected represented USD 76 million
during the fiscal year 2012/2013. The total losses represent USD 235 million. In order to
pay EDH USD 200 million expenditures over the same period (mainly for payment of the
IPPs), a USD 180 million budgetary transfer to the public company was necessary.

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 36364 – HT, June 29, 2006



                                            47
AF Project Paper, Report No: 49402 –HA, July 29, 2009

Legal agreements

PPIAF Feasibility Study for a Management Contract of EDH (March 2005)

Haiti PPIAF Urban Market Study (June 2008)

Etudes PPIAF : Analyse pour les Etudes Environnementales; Option d’Achat d’Energie (2005).

Rapports d’Avancement des Enquêtes Commerciales pour la Mise a Jour de la Base de Données
Clients de l’EDH, Septembre/Octobre 2011

PREPSEL Beneficiary Assessment, B. Pierre, C. Cange, February/March 2014

Mission reports, Experience Exchanges with EDESUR (Santo-Domingo, 26-28 June 2013) and
EDF (Martinique, 01 to 05 July 2013)

UCP, Rapport de Clôture du PREPSEL March 2014

UGSE, various quarterly reports

Financial audits 2007-2013




                                             48
                                 HAITI                                        74°W                                                                                 73°W                                                                                               72°W
                                                                                                                                                                                   AT LA NT IC                                          OCE AN
                           PREPSEL
                                                                                                                                                                                              Île de la Tortue
               CENTRALES:                                                                                                                                                                 Palmiste
                              Centrale hydroélectrique                                     20°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20°N
                              > 1 MW                                                                                                                                   Port-de-Paix




                                                                                                                   e
                                                                                                        HAITI                                                                                 St-Louis-du-Nord




                                                                                                               ag
                              Centrale hydroélectrique                                                                                                                                                      Anse-à-Foleur




                                                                                                              ss
                              < 1 MW                                                                                                                                            CENTRALE




                                                                                                        Pa
                                                                                                                                                        Jean Rabel             PORT-DE-PAIX                          Le Borgne                CENTRALE
                              Centrale thermique




                                                                                                       d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CAP-HAÏTIEN
                                                                                                                                              NORD - OUEST                                                                                                                                        To




                                                                                                   ar




                                                                                                                                                                                   Les
                              grands réseaux                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Monte
                                                                                                                                  Môle                                                                                                                  Cap-Haitien




                                                                                                  dw




                                                                                                                                                                                    Tro
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Port Margot                                                                        Christi
                              Centrale thermique                                                                                  St.-Nicolas                                                                                    NORD                 Quartier




                                                                                              in




                                                                                                                                                                                       is
                              petits réseaux                                                                                                                                                                   Pilate Limbé                           Morin




                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                         Bombardopolis                                                                                         Plaine
                                                                                                                                                                                    Gros-Morne                                  Acul           du Nord Limonade                Fort-Liberte
                              Centrale assistée                                                                                                                                                                              du Nord                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                         La Plateforme          Baie de
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CENTRALE              Terrier-                                                     Santiago
                                                                                                                                                               Anse                                           Plaisance                                Trou- Rouge      Ferrier
                              Poste de répartition                                                                                              Henne         Rouge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MILOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Grande Rivière         du-Nord                   Ouanaminthe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Marmelade      du Nord                      Grand Bassin
                              Éolienne                                                                                                                                                                                            Dondon      CENTRALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sainte-Suzanne
                                                                                                                                                                                      CENTRALE                          Ennery
                                                                                                                                                                                     GONAÏVES         Gonaives                               CARACOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORD - EST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Saint-                        Monte
               RÉSEAUX:                                                                                                                                                                                               Saint Michel                       Raphaël            Mombin Organisé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      de l'Attalaye
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pont de                                                                    Crochu
                               23 Kv
                                                                                                                                                                                                 L’Estere      ARTIBONITE                               Pignon            La Victoire Carice
                               69 Kv




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gu
                               115 Kv                                                                                                                                                 CENTRALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ay
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dessalines




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                       DROUET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             mp
                                                                                                                                                           Golfe de                                Pont
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   uo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maïssade                          Cerca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              la Source
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sondé                                                                     Hinche
           ARTIBONITE                                                                                                                                                                                                   Petite Rivière
                                  Région Électricité d’Haïti                                                                                              la Gonâve                 Saint-Marc            Liancourt
                                  Capitale de la République
                                                                                                                                                                                              CENTRALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Borel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ar                                   C E N T R E Thomassique
                                  Capitale de département                                                                                                                                    SAINT-MARC Verrettes              tib                               Thomonde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOMINICAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on
                                  Villes et villages                      19°N                                                                                                                         CENTRALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                                                                                    Délugé                                                                                      CENTRALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     e
                                                                                                                                                                                                      DÉLUGÉ-                                                  CENTRALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANZAC                              La Chapelle                           BELLADÈRE
                                  Frontières internationales                                                                                                                        Montrouis                                                                 PÉLIGRE

                                  Limites départementales                                                                                               Île de
                                                                                                                                                                      La Cayenne                                                                           Dufailly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Belladère
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                     la Gonâve                 Anse-à-Galets                                                                          Lac de
                                  Réseau routier                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mirebalais       Péligre Lascahobas                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Saut            Domond                                               San Juan
                                                                                                                                               Pointe-à-Raquette                                      Arcahaie                                     d’Eau                          Baptiste
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cabaret
                                                                                               Grande
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Thomazeau
                                                                          Jeremie             Cayemite                                                                                                                      CENTRALES                                          Cornillon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            VARREUX
                                                                                 Roseaux                           Grand
                                                                   Marfranc             Corail                                                                                                                                                          Croix des
                                Dame-Marie                     Moron                                               Boucan Petit Trou                                                                  PORT-AU-PRINCE                                                             Étang
                                                                                                   Pestel                                                                                                                                               Bouquets                 Saumâtre
                                                          Chambellan                                                      de Nippes                                                                                                           DELMAS
                                                                                                                                     Anse-à-Veau                                                                  Carrefour                                   Ganthier
                                                                                                              Baradères
                         Anse d'Hainault                    GRANDE-                   Beaumont
                                                                                                                                                                              Petit-      Grand
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Léogâne      CENTRALE            Pétionville                                                     Lago
                                                                                                                         NIPPES                               Miragoâne                                                      CARREFOUR
                                                             ANSE                                                                            Petite Rivière
                                                                                                                                             de Nippes
                                                                                                                                                                              Goâve       Gôave
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OUEST                         Kenscoff                                                Enriquillo       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Barahona
                                  Les Irois                                                      CENTRALE
                                                                                             SAUT MATHURINE                        L’Asile                                                                                                                          Fond Verrettes
                                                                                                                                                                              CENTRALE                 Trouin         CENTRALE
                                                                               Camp-Perrin              Maniche                                                             PETIT-GOÂVE
                                              Tiburon             Les Anglais                               Cavaillon                                                                                                GAILLARD
                                                        Chardonnières                                                    SUD                                                                     La Vallée              SUD - EST                                     Belle-
                                                                                   Chantal                                                                                                                           Jacmel                                           Anse        Thiotte
                                                             Port-à-Piment                                       Saint-Louis- Vieux Bourg
                                                                      Côteaux                                    du-Sud          d'Aquin
                                                                                         CENTRALE
                                                                                                      Les Cayes                          Laborieux                      Côtes-de-fer Bainet               CENTRALE   Meyer Cayes            Marigot
                                                                  Roche à Bateau           CAYES                                                                                                          JACMEL           Jacmel
                                                                                Arniquet         Torbeck
                                                                                                                 Île à Vache
                                                                              Port-Salut
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Anse-à-Pitres
           18°N                                                                                                                                                                             0        10        20      30        40 Kilometers                                                                              18°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 34738
           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       To
           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                   Caribbean                                  Sea                                           0             10            20               30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Oviedo
MAY 2006




           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                              74°W                                                                                 73°W                                                                                               72°W
