Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE Cov%
Report No. P-2588-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
June 8, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at Tk 33 to the Pound
Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the US Dollar and consequently
the Taka-US Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has been used
throughout this report except where otherwise stated.
US$1         =   Tk 15.0
Tk 1         =   US0.067
Tk 1 million =   US$66,667
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
ODM     -   Overseas Development Ministry of the-United Kingdom
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
BADC    -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Aman - Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in June)
and harvested in November or December.
Aus   -  Paddy planted during March and April and harvested during July
and August.
Boro - Paddy planted in winter and harvested during April to June.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:             US$25 million equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Purpose:            To finance the import of fertilizer for FY80, to im-
prove fertilizer distribution and marketing, and to
establish a more effective pricing system for fertilizer.
The credit would be administered by the Bangladesh Agri-
cultural Development Corporation. A ministerial level
fertilizer coordinating committee has been established
to improve the planning for fertilizer procurement and
distribution. Should fertilizer consumption be reduced
below expected levels import arrivals would be rephased
to assist in meeting FY81 requirements.
Credit Allocation:  The total amount would be utilized for imported fertilizer
(in bag or bulk), mostly for urea and TSP, but some DAP
and MP may also be financed.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                    US$ Millions
FY80
First Quarter                       --
Second Quarter                       8
Third Quarter                       12
Fourth Quarter                       5
Total                             25
Procurement:        All contracts would be let through international com-
petitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines.
This document haa a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FERTILIZER
IMPORTS CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
fertilizer imports credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the
equivalent of US$25 million, on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, dated September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report, entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD), was circulated
on December 15, 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, and much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy were complicated by
the needs to fashion a national government out of a provincial administration,
to establish development institutions serving agriculture, industry, trade,
and banking, and to reorient agriculture and industry after the loss of the
West Pakistan market.
4.         The first years of independence were difficult.    Bad harvests in
1972-73 were followed by damaging floods in 1974. Bangladesh's terms of trade
worsened considerably as import prices of foodgrains, petroleum, fertilizer
and cement rose sharply. The production of jute, the predominant export,
stagnated. Inflation, declining real wages, labor unrest and political
instability added to the troubles. During this early period, relief, reha-
bilitation and consolidation of Government authority were unavoidably the
paramount concerns of policy makers.
5.        Economic improvements in recent years, together with greater
political stability, signal a significant shift in the circumstances of
Bangladesh and somewhat brighten its economic prospects. The present time
can be characterized as a period of consolidation of the country's economic
recovery from the shocks of the early 1970s. It is also a period which
offers planners and policy makers an opportunity to focus anew on the longer-
term needs of development. In recognition of the need for a fundamental
reorientation of policies, the Government wisely chose to delay a new Five
Year Plan by two years. The current Two-Year Plan (FY79 and 80) has given
GOB officials time to carefully consider the development strategy and policies
to be incorporated in the next Five Year Plan beginning July 1980.



-2-
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
6.        The most notable recent political development has been the parlia-
mentary election held in February 1979. Since 1975, Bangladesh had been
governed under martial law and without a parliament. In the recent election,
some 29 political parties and groups contested the 300 seats in the National
Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won by the Bangladesh
Nationalist Party headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who had previously been
confirmed as President in the election held in June 1978. The Assembly will
have substantial powers, including control over the country's finances.
Martial law has been lifted following the convening of the new Parliament in
March 1979. One area in which the Government is expecting a salutary effect
is in the investment climate; it is hoped that both domestic and foreign in-
vestment will be encouraged. It is also anticipated that the Government will
soon be able to take major decisions on important policy issues and to imple-
ment programs that were held up pending the outcome of the recent elections.
7.        FY78 was a relatively good one for the economy.    Mostly as the
result of a large grain crop, which recovered from the substantial decline
in the previous year, and a 10% increase in industrial output, GDP grew by
7.8% in real terms, after only a 1.7% rise in FY77. For the third year in a
row, Bangladesh was spared major droughts, floods or cyclones. Foodgrain out-
put reached a record level of 13.1 million tons. The favorable results in
agriculture were explained not only by good weather, but also by constructive
Government actions resulting in sharply increased supplies of fertilizer,
other agricultural inputs and credit, and a larger and more efficient food-
grain procurement effort at prices attractive to farmers. Results for wheat
were particularly encouraging. Jute output also increased substantially
in FY78, partly due to the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) which,
in only a few years' time, has risen to cover 500,000 acres and is expected
to cover one million acres in the current year. However, raw jute prices
remained high due to increased demand and the depletion of inventories on
prior years. These high raw jute prices and an increase in jute workers'
salaries were major factors contributing to the jute mills' continued large
financial losses.
8.        The strong upturn in industrial output occurred because of a
revival in consumer demand, an increase in investment, and improved avail-
ability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry was
stimulated by increased demand for jute goods and cotton textiles, by an
intensification of construction activity, and by a liberalized import policy
for industrial raw materials and spare parts.
9.        It is still too early for an accurate assessment of the economy's
overall performance in FY79. Present indications are that agricultural pro-
duction will be below last year's level, mainly due to adverse weather. A
low level of foodgrain procurement, food imports below projected levels, and
high offtake rates have led to the possibility that food stocks could fall to
undesirably low levels in the coming months. Remedial actions are now under-
way to accelerate foodgrain import deliveries. Investments in the public and
private sector -- particularly in manufacturing -- have shown some growth



- 3 -
momentum, and the construction sector appears to be booming. Whether the
overall GDP growth rate for the year will still be ahead of population
growth is uncertain.
Structural Conditions and Development Issues
10.       The salient conditions of Bangladesh are still mass poverty, a
unique environment prone to natural disasters, and dependence on aid, not
only for investment financing but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
Life expectancy is short, child mortality is high, and human fertility has
only begun to be checked by population planning measures. The majority of
the adult population is illiterate, ill-fed, ill-housed and underemployed.
Although the economy has largely recovered from the shocks suffered in the
early 1970s, it has yet to reach the preindependence levels in a number of
areas. In FY78, per capita income ($91), domestic savings (about 1% of GDP),
per capita foodgrain production (notwithstanding last year's record crop) and
average nutrition levels still remained below the levels attained in FY70.
The investment ratio --at 12.2% of GDP in FY78-- was restored to about the
FY69 rate, after several years at much lower levels. The country remains
critically dependent on foreign aid, which covers some 75-80% of public
investment.
The Balance of Payments 1/
11.       The balance of payments continues to be characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and a heavy dependence on external aid. Export earn-
ings in FY78 represented less than 7% of GDP, and raw jute and jute goods still
accounted for almost 70% of those earnings. Foodgrains required to fill the
gap in domestic production have accounted for almost one third of all imports
in recent years, while fertilizer imports have accounted for just under 5% of
the total. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products have represented over
11% of the import bill.
12.       In FY78, import payments of US$1,349 million were 56% above their
relatively low level of FY77. Almost one fifth of this increase consisted
of a boost in grain imports needed to meet consumption requirements and to
bring food stocks closer to a safe level; the remainder provided much of the
inputs required to accelerate GDP growth -- fertilizer, cement, industrial
raw materials, spare parts and capital goods. Consumer goods imports also
rose significantly. Commodity exports valued at US$497 million financed
only 37% of merchandise imports. Despite a modest improvement in the terms
of trade and an 8% increase in export earnings, the trade deficit more than
doubled over the preceding year, reaching US$852 million -- or 11.7% of GDP.
This deficit was further augmented by a US$17 million deficit on services
(including interest payments on external debt). Workers' remittances from
abroad, on the other hand, continued to rise, reaching a level of US$83
million and becoming the second most important source of foreign exchange
earnings (after jute). The current account deficit, therefore, came to
US$786 million. Adding the US$35 million required for the amortization of
I/ See also Table 1, following para 14.



- 4 -
medium- and long-term debts, the overall financing deficit in the balance of
payments amounted to US$821 million. Aid disbursements of US$797 million
covered almost all of this; the rest was financed by drawing down inter-
national reserves.
13.       In the current year, FY79, merchandise exports are expected to in-
crease 17% in value to US$580 million, while commodity imports are projected
to rise by 27% to US$1,720 million, mainly because of further acceleration of
economic activity. As noted above, however, there has been a shortfall in
projected aid-financed food imports. It had been anticipated that these would
amount to US$250 million. The revised forecast is that they will reach only
about US$190 million. The predicted trade deficit of US$1,140 million will
be partially offset by an anticipated inflow of US$107 million in workers'
remittances from Bangladeshis working abroad. The current account deficit,
therefore -- including a deficit of US$10 million for services -- will pro-
bably amount to US$1,043 million, or US$257 million more than in FY78. Due
to some debt write-offs and conversions of past loans into grants by foreign
donors, debt amortization payments are projected to decline to US$29 million
in FY79. Anticipated foreign aid disbursements of about US$995 million --
plus a US$40 million Trust Fund loan from the IMF and US$20 million in allo-
cations of new SDRs -- will cover almost the entire payments deficit. With
some capital inflows for direct foreign investment and short-term transactions,
Bangladesh could in fact end FY79 with a small increase in its holdings of
foreign reserves; at a projected level of about US$280 million, however, they
will still cover less than two months of merchandise imports.
14.       With further strengthened demand for both traditional and non-
traditional exports and an improved domestic supply situation, Bangladesh's
export earnings are forecast to rise to US$650 million in FY80. At the same
time, imports are expected to grow by 16% (in nominal terms) to about US$2
billion; this increase of about 6.5% (in real terms) would be required to pro-
vide the crucial inputs for further GDP growth and diversification and to meet
the anticipated food gap. Food imports needed to replenish the declining food
stocks are now estimated at about US$270 million. Thus, the trade deficit is
likely to reach US$1,365 million. The terms of trade are projected to conti-
nue to deteriorate, in FY80, but to improve slightly in subsequent years.
Although there will be a probable deficit on services of about US$25 million,
private transfers from Bangladeshis working abroad are expected to amount to
US$130 million, reducing the current account deficit to US$1,260 million. The
amortization of external debt will require some US$30 million, so that the
overall financing gap will be about US$1,290 million. Net short-term capital
outflows are likely to be US$35 million (mainly because of the settlement of
large short-term debts with Iran and Kuwait). Repayments to the IMF could
amount to as much as US$75 million, but the net settlement may in fact be
positive if a Stand-by Arrangement now being negotiated comes into force. A
further SDR allocation of about US$20 million will take place in January, and
an additional sizable IMF Trust Fund loan is also projected. Anticipated
foreign aid inflows US$1,245 million would still leave a final deficit of
roughly US$10 million to be financed by short-term borrowing or by drawing
down reserves. If, however, the level of foreign reserve holdings were to be



brought up to (or maintained at) the equivalent of two months of merchandise
imports (i.e., to US$333 million), this would require a further US$53 million
to be financed by other means.
Table 1
Bangladesh: Balance of.Payments, FY75-FY78 (Summary)
(in millions of US Dollars)
FY75     FY76    FY77     FY78     FY79      FY80
(Pro-    (Pro-
jected)  jected)
Merchandise exports, f.o.b.        387      381    460       497      580      635
Merchandise imports, c.i.f.    -1,129    -1,266   -865    -1,349   -1,720   -2,000
Trade Balance                    -742      -885   -405      -852   -1,140   -1,365
Services (net)                      12      -24    -17       -17      -10      -25
Private transfers                   34       62     81        83      107      130
Current Account Balance          -696      -847   -341     -786    -1,043   -1,260
Amortization of MLT debt          -24       -68    -30       -35      -29      -30
Other capital /a                  -53        48    -50        -1       68       15
Allocation of SDRs                  -        -      -         -        20.       20
Disbursement of External Aid      924       814    502       797      995    1,245
of which:  Food aid               379       307    106       190      190      270
Commodity aid /b       400      378     249      352      480       580
Project aid            145      129     147      254       325      395
Changes in reserves
(- = increase)                   -151        53    -81       25       -11       10
/a   Including transactions with the IMF.
7F    Including cash.
Source: GOB Planning Commission, IMF and IBRD estimates.
Public Finance
15.       The counterpart of Bangladesh's balance of payments disequilibrium,
as noted above, is a severe resource gap. Gross national savings is only on
the order of 3% of GNP, whereas total investment is about 12% of GNP--a
deficit gap of some 9%. The main explanation of the low savings rate is of
course the extreme poverty of the country. But other explanatory factors
include (i) the losses of many public enterprises, which require substantial
subsidies to facilitate their continued operation; (ii) other subsidies, among
which those on food and fertilizer consumption represent major claims of
budgetary resources; and (iii) a weak tax administration.



16.       Although budgetary revenues have increased quite rapidly, current
expenditures (excepting this year) have risen at the same pace. Consequently,
the current surplus has financed only 20-25% of the development budget. If
proper allowance is made for both a number of current expenditures now in-
cluded in the development budget as well as for the full amortization cost of
the assets of public enterprises, the level of public sector savings in recent
years has been minimal and sometimes negative. The success of the Government
in FY79 in holding down the growth of current expenditures and recent steps
(see paragraph 22) to reduce subsidies are indication of the Government's
concern for improving domestic resource mobilization.
17.       Slow progress in the generation of savings has made increases
in development spending, and hence in output, critically dependent on the
ability of Bangladesh to attract increasing amounts of foreign aid. A corol-
lary is that an increasing proportion of the total funds available for devel-
opment financing is required to provide domestic counterpart finance for
externally aided projects. Currently, 34% of the development budget consists
of foreign aid disbursements to specific projects. Since aid covers on
average only half of total project cost, an equivalent amount of budgetary
resources is required to provide the local counterpart to the financing of
aided projects, and relatively few resources--at present about one third of
the total--are left over to finance all other development activities. As a
result, the implementation of many projects, aided and non-aided, is hampered
by insufficient or tardy allocation of domestic funds.
18.       The Bank's recent report on domestic resource mobilization 1/
roughly estimates that the Government should be able to increase public sav-
ings to 4% of GDP over the next five years. Assuming an unchanging propor-
tion of aid to GDP and estimating national savings at 2-3% of GDP at present,
this would allow raising development expenditures from 12-13% to 16-17% of
GDP. The increase would result from measures to improve tax administration,
rationalize and increase certain tax rates, improve the financial results of
public enterprises, and diminish subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy.
An important condition, however, is that GDP would grow by at least 4% a year,
i.e., well ahead of population, since in view of the country's low per capita
income it would be very hard to envisage an increase in savings to occur at
the expense of already critically low consumption levels.
19.       The immediate fiscal and monetary situation presents a mixed picture.
Last year's acceleration in economic growth and imports engendered rapid growth
in government revenues, which rose by about 25%. Current expenditures rose
at about the same rate, reflecting partly a substantial upward adjustmenit in
the very low salaries of government personnel. The net result was only a
small increase in the current surplus. At the same time, development expen-
ditures also rose rapidly. In spite of increased aid disbursements, deficit
financing amounted to Tk 1.1 billion, about 9% of current revenue. Overall
liquidity continued to rise during FY78 and began to have its effect on the
price level, and inflation again became a problem.
I/   Bangladesh - Report on Domestic Financial Resource Mobilization, IBRD
Report No. 1919-BD, dated April 26, 1978.



- 7 -
20.       In an effort to keep inflation under control, the Government drew
up a balanced budget for FY79. Partly due to an upward revision in the Annual
Development Program, however, there will still be a substantial overall bud-
getary deficit this year--probably of the order of 8% of GDP compared to 9%
in FY78; reasons for this include the still large food and other subsidies
and the negative impact of wage increases on revenue transfers by the public
corporations. Other factors behind the rapidly rising liquidity are expan-
sion of agricultural credit and increased financial demands by the private
industrial sector and the jute mills.
21.       Nevertheless, public savings performance is certain to improve
this year. Current revenues are estimated to increase by 22% compared with
a 9% increase in current expenditures--an absolute decline of expenditure in
real terms. Since development expenditures will be 25% higher, total expen-
ditures are now forecast to increase 18% over last year. Further progress is
desirable, and the Government is considering new means to mobilize additional
domestic resources. At the June 1978 meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group,
the GOB announced its decision to establish five committees to consider the
following issues: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii) ration-
alization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii) economic
pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input subsidies,
including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the financial per-
formance of public sector enterprises. The committees have recently concluded
their work and have reported their recommendations to the Government. Further-
more, a detailed survey of the jute industry was recently completed; this
should lead to a modernization program and eventually to improved management
practices, increased labor productivity and better financial performance.
The final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission was also submitted to
the Government in early 1979. It is anticipated that a start will be made
with the implementation of the recommendations of both the resource mobiliza-
tion committees and the Commission in the context of the FY80 budget to be
submitted to the Parliament in June 1979.
22.       The proposed credit is recommended on the basis of an understanding
reached with the GOB that the fertilizer subsidy (currently Tk 1.4 to 1.5
billion) will be reduced over time and eventually eliminated. The increases
in fertilizer prices in FY80 (see paragraph 82), agreed as the initial step
towards this goal, are projected to result in a reduction in the fertilizer
subsidy for FY80 (from the level that would have occurred in the absence of
the price increases) of about Tk 500 million--a savings equivalent to 4% of
this year's budgeted government revenues. The recently announced 20% increase
in foodgrain ration prices, and the utility price increases agreed in con-
nection with recently negotiated IDA credits, are further indications of the
Government's concern for strengthening its finances.
Development Planning
23.       Work on a Perspective Plan (1980-2000) and a Second Five-Year Plan
is in a preliminary stage. Present indications are that the Government will
give emphasis to: (i) legal and institutional changes to bring about a rural



- 8 -
orientation and decentralization of planning; (ii) achievement of food self-
sufficiency; (iii) employment creation and population control; (iv) drastic
reductions in subsidies, and other means to mobilize domestic resources; and
(v) a major new effort to reduce illiteracy. It remains to be seen what
specific new measures will be devised for achieving these objectives. But
these are all priority issues, and much of the Bank's own economic and sec-
toral work program is currently addressed to the analysis of rural development
(including the dynamics of demographic growth), food production, trade policy
and industrial development prospects, and domestic resource mobilization.
Considerable attention is also being given, particularly by the Bank's resi-
dent mission, to finding ways to improve aid coordination and project
implement at ion.
External Assistance Requirements
24.       Since independence, Bangladesh has received almost US$6.2 billion
in aid commitments from bilateral and multilateral sources; of this, over
US$4.3 billion had been disbursed by June 30, 1978. New commitments made
during FY78 amounted to almost US$1.2 billion, and a further US$1.5 billion
are expected to be committed during the current year.
25.       In the long run, Bangladesh's heavy dependence on foreign aid must
not be allowed to become a permanent underpinning of the economy. For the
short and medium term, however, as absorptive capacity improves, further in-
creases in the absolute amount of aid inflows will be necessary and desirable
to supplement the still meager domestic resources available for priority
development programs.
26.       Over the next five years, real growth of foodgrain output, GDP and
per capita incomes is expected to be considerably above recent historical
trends. Improvements in the country's administrative structure and efficiency
are expected to materialize after seven years of post-independence rehabili-
tation and institution building. By FY85 the current account deficit is
projected to be on the order of US$2.2 billion.
The Case for Program Assistance
27.       Even with a far superior savings performance than in the past, sub-
stantial external aid will continue to be required for some time to finance
a major part of Bangladesh's total development expenditures. Since domestic
savings (of which public savings are paramount) cannot be expected to grow
very fast, much of the aid provided should remain in the form of counterpart
generating aid, i.e., commodity and food aid. A large inflow of external
capital has been, and will continue to be, required merely to achieve a modest
growth of per capita incomes. At 12% of GDP, the level of investment is very
low even by comparison with other low-income developing economies. External
assistance is currently financing about 80% of gross domestic capital forma-
tion. In the public sector, external capital provides 75% of the development
budget, directly or indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated by
commodity aid.



28.       The corollary of the severe disequilibrium between savings and
investment is the fundamental imbalance in the country's external payments
position outlined above. These structural characteristics, combined with
serious administrative weaknesses, make it impossible in the short and medium
term to transfer the amount of external assistance required solely by means
of project financing--even if such financing includes substantial provisions
for local currency expenditures. There are limits to the extent that compo-
nents of any country's overall development program can be formed into projects
suitable for external financing; it is particularly difficult in the case of
Bangladesh where an experienced and efficient development administration does
not yet exist.
29.       Given the structural constraints in the country's foreign trade dis-
cussed above, the requirements for imports of general commodities cannot be
met by foreign exchange earnings alone. Without program assistance to finance
imports of general commodities, the supply of non-agricultural goods to the
economy would be greatly reduced. In particular, production in the industrial
sector would have to be cut back substantially. Utilization of existing in-
dustrial capacity has been improving and is now at an average level of about
65%, compared with less than 50% in FY73 and about 70% in FY70. But even
with investment in additional capacity since FY70, industrial production has
only now reached the FY70 level.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
30.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiv-
ation of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million
(including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed
under the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations)
were made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of May 31, 1979, 32 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph
31, have been made, totalling US$900.7 million. Of these, US$500 million
have been for seven program credits. The project credits have emphasized
agricultural development, but also included amounts for population, telecom-
munications, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the
105th member of the IFC, and IFC's first investment (Highspeed Shipbuilding
and Engineering Co., Ltd) was approved on May 10, 1979.
31.       Following its independence, Bangladesh reached agreement with most
of the bilateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangla-
desh of portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan. This will lead to some
increase in debt service and, while the debt service ratio is not exepcted to
exceed 20% before the late 1980's, it could do so thereafter unless careful
debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on appropriately
concessional terms. With respect to the Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to
accept liability for portions of IDA credits and IBRD loans extended for
projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence.



- 10 -
Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9 million, and a
consolidated credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on February 14, 1975.
The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is not ex-
pected to rise above the present level of about 27% over the next five years.
32.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1979, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged behind expectations,
owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, approval of con-
tracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Government
has taken steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are beginning to
be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement per-
formance. Disbursements on project credits increased by 50% in FY78 over
FY77 and based upon nine months disbursements are expected to increase by a
further 33% in FY1979.
33.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify and
prepare projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and
telecommunications are now underway. In this connection, particular emphasis
will be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for
the rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Projects to
develop Bangladesh's gas resources to save foreign exchange expenditure on
imported fuel and fertilizer are part of this strategy.
Prior Import Program Credits
34.       Since 1971, seven program credits totalling US$500 million have been
made to Bangladesh. The main focus for the credits has been to increase indus-
trial production through the rehabilitation and better utilization of produc-
tive capacity and, especially in later credits, to improve performance in
specific industrial sectors. The first three program credits were designed
to meet the rehabilitation requirements of an industrial sector devastated
during the struggle for independence. However, for the following three
credits, rehabilitation, although important, became secondary to the long term
development needs of industry and, in particular, improvement in the produc-
tive performance of the two largest industries in the country - jute and
cotton textiles. To achieve these objectives, action programs were developed
to resolve the organizational, managerial, production, marketing and financial
problems of the jute and cotton textile sectors. Although the progress on
these action programs has been slower than anticipated, significant improve-
ments have been achieved in production efficiency, maintenance, production
planning, marketing, and personnel management. The Seventh Credit approved
in December 1978 added a new area of focus, the development of non-traditional
exports. In this area considerable progress has been made in strengthening
the Export Promotion Bureau, completing export and mar'keting studies and
upgrading trade attache capabilitLes. For the reasons given in paragraphs
27-29, program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required while
efforts are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy.



- 11 -
Nevertheless, the share of program lending in total Bank Group lending to
Bangladesh is expected to decline gradually during the next few years as the
Government's capacity to prepare and implement development projects improves.
Agricultural Operations
35.       Of the 25 new project credits totalling US$400.7 million, 14 credits
totalling US$241.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits allo-
cated to this sector). In line with the strategy set forth in the Bank Group's
"Land and Water Resources Sector Study" (Report No. PS-13) IDA-supported pro-
jects have emphasized:
(a) expansion of irrigation, drainage and flood control facili-
ties through technically simple, low cost, short gestation
water control projects;
(b) strengthening of agricultural supporting services such as
extension, applied research, credit, small farmer cooperatives
and rural training; and
(c) improvement of farm input supplies such as seeds and
fertilizers.
36.       Several of the IDA-supported agricultural projects--among them the
Chandpur II Irrigation Project (Credit 340-BD), the Northwest Tubewells
Project (Credit 341-BD) and the Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 381-BD)--are
complete or nearing completion and the preliminary assessment of the likely
benefits indicates the soundness of these investments. Other projects also
remain economically viable although in many cases the pace of implementation
has been rather disappointing and the project completion are likely to be
delayed by two to three years. Reasons for the slippage in the implementation
schedules have been primarily administrative and include inter alia difficul-
ties in: hiring of consultants; appointment of project staff; release of
budgetary allocations; approval of contracts; and coordination among various
implementing agencies. Inadequate project preparation and planning, poor
progress monitoring systems as well as a lack of experienced and adequately
trained field staff have also contributed to delays in implementation. The
Government is concerned about the slow pace of project implementation and in
consultation with IDA, has taken a number of steps to relax the most serious
bottlenecks. Among those steps are: (a) increased decentralization in pro-
ject management and in procurement and contracting; (b) simplification of
procedur.es for release of budgetary funds; and (c) streamlining of procedures
for hiring project staff. On the organizational side, the Government is in
the process of establishing planning and monitoring cells in the main minis-
tries and agencies dealing with agriculture and water resources and in
strengthening the Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing
assistance both under specific projects and under three Technical Assistance
Credits (Credit 490-BD, 622-BD and 872-BD). The Government and IDA have also
given increased emphasis to regular monitoring and supervision of the various
projects in order to identify and resolve the potential problems at an early



- 12 -
stage. The above measures have resulted in visible improvements in project
implementation and disbursements over the past two years. Further improve-
ments are feasible in many cases and are being pursued as part of the ongoing
dialogue between the Government and the Association. However, given the
complexities of development administration in Bangladesh, the aid agencies
also need to place a greater emphasis on technical assistance for project
preparation, monitoring and supervision as well as institutional development.
37.       The fundamental need to improve agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending to Bangladesh. However, in the short-term, the rate of planned
lending for agriculture will be based upon progress in improving the currently
limited absorptive capacity of the various implementing agencies. Over the
next year, proposed credits for rural works, low lift pumps and a fertilizer
sector credit are expected to be ready for consideration. Adequate supplies
of fertilizer are essential to reap the full benefits of on-going and pro-
posed agriculture and rural development projects.
Other Sectors
38.       In addition to the seven program credits the industrial sector has
also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and the fertilizer produc-
tion project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying suitable invest-
ment opportunities in addition to the recently approved first IFC project.
39.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first population project (Credit 533-BD) is now making encouraging progress,
and a credit for second population project has been approved this fiscal year.
Improved education and availability of trained manpower are also crucial.
Past lending in this field has emphasized agricultural and technical train-
ing. A vocational training project has been approved this fiscal year.
Future operations, while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are also
expected to include assistance for primary education and management training.
40.        In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area has
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization. Efforts in these fields will continue, com-
bined with new studies of rural poverty, crop production strategy, and export
promotion.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General
41.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy; accounting for 55%
of GDP, 75% of all employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the



- 13 -
country's exports. About 75% of the agricultural GDP is derived from crops
and the rest from forestry (4%), fisheries (13%) and livestock (8%). Bangla-
desh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac are under cultiva-
tion at a cropping intensity averaging 135% in recent years. Rice, by far the
most important crop, accounts for about 80% of the cropped area; jute, the
principal export, for 6%, and a variety of other crops such as wheat, pulses,
oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables for the remaining 14%. Agricultural pro-
ductivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world; the average rice
yield of about 0.5 ton per ac is barely half of that for Asia as a whole.
42.       The major objectives of the Government's agricultural development
efforts are to achieve food self-sufficiency, create employment for the rural
poor in order to improve incomes and nutritional standards, and to increase
export earnings. The Government¶s strategy for the sector emphasizes strength-
ening of rural institutions, improvement of farm input supplies, better utili-
zation of existing irrigation facilities, and further expansion of irrigation
facilities through low cost, short gestation, minor irrigation schemes.
Performance and Near-Term Prospects
43.       During the 1960s, agricultural production grew at an annual rate
of 2.5% and foodgrain production, at an annual rate of 2.4%. However, both
lagged behind the population growth rate of about 2.8%.     As a result, food-
grain imports increased from less than 0.6 M tons in FY61 to over 1.5 M tons
in FY70. Due to adverse weather conditions as well as disruptions caused by
the war of liberation, production during the early 1970s remained below FY70
levels, necessitating imports averaging 1.8 M tons per year and accounting
for about one-quarter of the total import bill. In FY78, due to favorable
weather conditions, a more effective procurement effort, and the sharply
increased supplies of fertilizers and other agricultural inputs, foodgrain
production reached a record 13.1 M tons, some 10% above the 1970 level. Never-
theless, the production fell short of the requirements by 1.6 million tons.
44.       'Jute production also declined significantly during the'early 1970s
and, despite a reversal of the declining trend, the FY78 production remained
about 25% below the pre-independence level. The production of a number of
minor crops (such as sugarcane, pulses, oilseeds and potatoes) has also re-
mained depressed. Wheat production however, has more than tripled since FY70.
45.       Due to unfavorable weather during the aman crop and diesel shortages
for the irrigated boro crop, foodgrain production in FY79 is expected to be
below the FY78 level, perhaps around 12.9 M tons. Coupled with delays in
arrivals of some food aid expected during FY79, this could lead to a difficult
food supply position over the next several months. The Government, however,
has acted vigorously to line up additional deliveries from new aid and from
its own cash resources. On the other hand,- due to the expanded coverage of
the Intensive Jute-Cultivation Program, the FY79 jute production is provision-
ally estimated to be some 10% above the level achieved in FY78. Wheat produc-
tion is also expected to be substantially higher. However, despite good per-
formance for jute and wheat, it is unlikely that'there will be any real growth
in overall agricultural production during FY79.



- 14 -
Constraints and Potential
46.       Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by scarcity
of cultivable land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities, and
deficient transportation for moving farm inputs and produce. On the other
hand, Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic soils, a climate
suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater resources for dry
season irrigation. Also, the development of high yielding varieties (HYVs) of
rice and wheat which are suitable for cultivation in large areas of Bangladesh
even under rainfed conditions, has opened up the prospect of substantial
increases in production that can be brought about quickly and inexpensively.
Much of this potential, however, has not been exploited.
47.       An important constraint is the heavy pressure of population on land.
Most land holdings in Bangladesh are small and fragmented--a typical holding
being about 2 acres split into six plots. This constitutes an obstacle to
efficient farm management and makes the organization of cooperative irriga-
tion systems difficult. An additional constraint is the agricultural tenancy
arrangements, under which about 30% of Bangladesh farmers operate. Because of
the customary rental arrangements, the tenant is normally expected to provide
all of the inputs, but receives only about half of the crop and has no right
of occupancy. Under such arrangements there is reduced incentive to develop
lands for irrigation or to improve farming practices.
48.       A number of organizational deficiencies have also adversely affected
growth. Generally, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to proven innovations.
Their efforts, however, have been handicapped by the inadequate and unreliable
distribution system for farm inputs, such as HYV seeds, fertilizers and pesti-
cides, and by the absence of an effective extension system. Adequate market-
ing, processing, storage and credit facilities have also been lacking.
Agricultural planning has generally been based on an extremely poor data base
and very little feedback from operating departments, resulting in unrealistic
targets and inflexible programs. On the implementation side, the weaknesses
include excessive centralization of decision-making and overly cumbersome
administrative procedures. Despite these handicaps, Government has made pro-
gress in promoting improved farming technologies. During 1970-78 areas with
modern irrigation facilities increased by 1.2 M ac, fertilizer consumption
increased from some 280,000 tons to 715,000 tons and the utilization of
high-yielding varieties increased from about 1.0 M ac to 4.0 M ac.
49.       Further growth in agricultural productivity is a prerequisite for
meeting many of the country's other major economic objectives, ranging from
food self-sufficiency to equitable income distribution and from increased
domestic resource mobilization to sustained overall growth. The Government's
stated objective is to achieve food self-sufficiency by FY85. At an average
per capita consumption of 15.5 ounces of grain per day, this would require
production of 17-18 million tons, implying a sustained annual growth rate
of about 5% over the record FY78 crop level. This is an ambitious target and
would be difficult to achieve, particularly in view of the likely setbacks
during FY79. A growth potential of between 3.5% and 4% would be more real-
istic, postponing foodgrain self-sufficiency to about 1988.



- 15 -
50.       Rough calculations indicate that, to achieve the announced goal of
national foodgrain self-sufficiency by 1985, between 2.0 and 2.5 million tons
of fertilizer (depending on the incremental yield assumptions), 4.8 million
acres of irrigated land (primarily through low-lift pumps and tubewells) and
expansion of HYVs to about 8.0 million acres would be required. These inputs
are divisible, replicable and quick yielding, which facilitates their further
expansion as funds become available. The expansion of irrigated acreage
beyond the present 2.9 million acres would result in increases in average
cropping intensity, as more acreage would be suitable for an additional crop
in the dry season.   Expansion to 5.5 million acres is considered to be tech-
nically feasible by 1985. To accomplish this goal, short gestation schemes
with relatively low capital requirements per acre should have priority. 1/
Further gains could be made by improving the present low utilization of exist-
ing irrigation capacity and raising the actually irrigated acreage to levels
approaching the potential command area. This would require improved provision
of maintenance services, spare parts and fuel for existing pumps by involving
the private sector, as well as by strengthening irrigation cooperatives.
Measures to address these problems are being discussed in the context of pro-
posed IDA projects.
51.       A substantially expanded program of supplying these inputs, as
envisaged above would not be feasible on budgetary grounds if the present
levels of input subsidies remain in effect. Neither can retention of these
subsidies be defended in terms of equity considerations; in times of short
supply the main beneficiaries are not always the smaller farmers. If, as
expected, the subsidies are to be gradually phased out in the context of a
program of increased supply, care will have to be taken to maintain incen-
tive relationships between input and output prices through effective output
price support measures.
52.       At the Government's request, IDA is working with various GOB agen-
cies to help prepare a Medium-Term Agricultural Production Plan which would
address a number of the above issues. During the Plan preparation special
attention will be paid to: achieving the quickest feasible reduction in
subsidies to improve GOB's financial position; the procurement system; market-
ing and incentive prices to foodgrains and other important crops; adequate
and timely supply of fertilizer, diesel fuel, seeds and pesticides; improved
supply of institutional credit; better utilization of existing irrigation
systems and equipment; expanding investments in low capital intensive irriga-
tion, drainage and flood control works; development of location specific HYVs
adapted to the cropping seasons and hydrologic conditions of Bangladesh;
strengthening of extension and supportive applied research; intensified and
expanded in-service training; and improved project planning and implementation.
To provide adequate and timely feedback on sectoral performance and problems,
particularly as regards production, farmgate prices and input use, the Plan
would emnhasize establishment of monitoring and evaluation cells within appro-
priate agencies of the Government.
1/   Several such schemes have been identified in a recent joint GOB/IBRD
review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR
53.       The policy problems affecting fertilizer marketing, distribution,
and pricing discussed below are addressed in the proposed credit and in
ongoing assistance programs of USAID, UNDP and other agencies. In addition
IDA is assisting the Government in preparing a project to increase production
of Bangladesh's domestic fertilizer industry and to improve the fertilizer
marketing and distribution infrastructure.
54.       Several studies 1/ have simulated the input requirements of achiev-
ing various foodgrain output targets in Bangladesh. Given the constraints
in achieving any further acreage expansion, the studies relate the growth in
food production to the increased use of modern inputs--fertilizers, irriga-
tion, HYV seeds, pesticides. All these inputs will need to be used in a
complementary fashion if output growth is to be sustained over time. Given
the vagaries of the weather, substantial year to year variations are to be
expected. The results of these studies indicate that a substantial increase
in fertilizer use would be a necessary condition for achieving sustained
productivity increases. For more than half of the rice and wheat crops, an
increase in fertilizer use alone, without any other inputs or changes in
practices, would bring about substantial initial increases in yields. It is
estimated that the achievement of a 3.5%-4.0% output growth rate depends on
an annual increase in the fertilizer use of about 15%. This would lead to a
fertilizer consumption level of about 2.0 million tons in 1984/85, compared
with an estimated level of 800,000 tons in 1978/79. Whether such levels can
actually be achieved on a sustained basis remains to be seen, and would be
dependent upon accelerated progress in increasing irrigation and drainage
combined with improvements in supporting services.) Given the pent-up demand
now evident (see paragraph 57) the availability of additional fertilizer
supplies will facilitate an increase in the effectiveness of other available
inputs. The envisaged output response is likely to be quick, since the
fertilizer technology is simple and well known to Bangladesh farmers.
55.       Chemical fertilizer was first introduced in Bangladesh in 1958 and
its use began to spread rapidly particularly after the establishment in 1962
of the East Pakistan Agricultural Development Corporation, which later became
the Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC). The fertilizers
used in Bangladesh are urea (46% nitrogen nutrient), TSP (46% phosphate
nutrient), MP (60% potassium nutrient), and the recently introduced DAP (18%
nitrogen and 46% phosphate nutrient). At present, urea accounts for 62%, TSP
and DAP for 29%, and MP for 9% of the fertilizer used. A higher ratio of
phosphate and perhaps potash to nitrogen would increase productivity. This is
being encouraged by the strengthened extension system being introduced under
the IDA financed Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   See Bangladesh:   Review of the Bangladesh Water Development Board,
Joint Document of the Government of Bangladesh and the World Bank,
Report No. 2327-BD, April 2, 1979, Annex 3.



- 17 -
56.       Fertilizer is used by all types of farmers in Bangladesh.     A recent
survey 1/ indicates that fertilizer is now used by about 64% of the land owners
and 63% of the tenants, although most tenants are responsible for its full
cost but receive only about half the output. Although there are no national
data on the quantity used by land tenure or farm size or on the frequency of
use by farirm ize, regional surveys indicate that more fertilizer per acre is
used on the smallest farms and that the frequency of use is about equal on
large and small farms. Improvement in fertilizer use can be expected as the
reforms in the extension system currently being introduced under the IDA
assisted Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD) become more widespread.
57.       Since FY66 fertilizer consumption has increased at an average annual
rate of about 17% (see Annex IV, Table 1). Because of the disappointing
performance of the domestic fertilizer industry, imports have increased from
about 350,000 tons in FY76 to about 640,000 tons in FY79 (see Annex IV, Table
2). The growth in consumption has been steady except for FY72 following the
war of independence, and FY75 following an explosion at the Ghorasal Urea
factory (paragraph 65). Between FY77 and FY78, there was a 40% increase in
offtake to 715,000 tons of commercial fertilizers. Factors that explain this
growth include: (a) the early announcement of an adequate procurement price
for paddy and sufficient paddy procurement to support that price; and (b) in-
creased Government efforts to promote fertilizer specifically by distributing
mini-kits, 2/ liberalizing credit and simplifying sales procedures. As a
result the Tevel of effective demand was well above supply because of low
domestic production, difficulties in arranging imports, and marketing defi-
ciencies. During the first seven months of the current year, 1978/79, con-
sumption ran 20% higher than in 1977/78 and would have been higher if not for
supply shortages which occurred at both the national and local level. Stocks
have been fluctuating from a low of 153,000 tons (in November) to a high of
289,000 tons (in January) compared with the in-country stock target of about
370,000 tons (5 months supply) to support the revised FY79 sales goal of
900,000 tons. Furthermore, on average 44% of the stocks were at all times at
the ports or in transit, leaving many BADC warehouses in most districts empty
from time to time. Had supplies been ample, offtake would have been much
higher. Excess demand was reflected by black market prices, long lines at
supply points, empty warehouses, and numerous farmer complaints of inability
to obtain fertilizer. However, offtake has been depressed during the second
half of the current year due to drought. (Fertilizer in this season is used
as a top dressing and if applied would be wasted in the absence of water.)
Sales for FY79 are now estimated to be about 800,000 tons, an increase of 12%
over 1977/78, as compared with the target before the drought of 900,000 tons.
Total fertilizer imports for FY79 are estimated to have reached about 640,000
tons.
1/   1978 Land Occupancy Survey of Rural Bangladesh, Bangladesh Bureau of
Statistics. (December 1978).
2/   Packages containing recommended amounts of various fertilizers for small
units of acreage.



- 18 -
58.       A sustained growth rate in fertilizer use of 15% or higher, required
to maintain a 3.5-4.0% output growth rate, can be achieved if supply is ade-
quate and if foodgrain procurement and fertilizer/foodgrain pricing policies
are suitable to maintain demand. A large excess demand is observed at the
current fertilizer/output prices ratio and it is expected to continue; the
exact level of future demand will, of course, depend on any change in the
fertilizer/output price ratio. For the longer term, assuming suitable incen-
tives in the agricultural sector, fertilizer demand should remain high for two
reasons: (i) fertilizer use per acre is one of the lowest in the world and
hence the incremental output response to fertilizer use will remain high. For
instance, it is estimated that, based upon current cropping patterns, the use
of agronomically recommended amounts of fertilizer would require consumption
of 4.9 million tons of fertilizer annually, compared to an estimated FY79
consumption of only 800,000 tons; (ii) complementary inputs, particularly
high yielding seed varieties, irrigation, and flood protection are expanding,
which tend to raise the incremental productivity of fertilizer.
59.       Achievement of a long-term 15% sustained annual increase in fertil-
izer use requires that sufficient supplies are available in time for the crop-
ping seasons. Such an increase in offtake also depends on orderly and timely
distribution of supplies. Further, given present inadequacies in the imports
and distribution system, the total available supply in the country should
include adequate stocks to meet fertilizer requirements for about a five month
period. Half of this stock is needed for a minimum operating inventory to
ensure availability at the local level while the other half would act as a
buffer against irregularities in local production, import arrivals and internal
transport. As improvements are made in coordinating imports, domestic produc-
tion, distribution and warehousing, stock levels can probably be reduced.
60.       The target for FY80 offtake has been agreed by the Government and
IDA as 1,000,000 tons. While this represents a 25% increase over the estimated
actual offtake in FY79, it would be in line with recent increases in estimated
potential demand assuming good weather and adequate and timely supplies.
Prior to the drought there were severe shortages of fertilizer in early FY79
in spite of a 20% increase in availability. To aim for less would be to risk
foregone production at a time of serious foodgrain shortages. If demand were
to fall below expected levels, e.g., due to flooding or drought, import
arrivals would be rephased to assist in meeting FY81 requirements.
Domestic Fertilizer Production
61.        Bangladesh has two operating urea plants, using natural gas as a
feedstock. The first plant, at Fenchuganj, was built in 1961 with a design
capacity of 106,000 tons per year (tpy) of urea and 12,000 tpy of ammonium
sulphate. This plant achieved close to 90% capacity utilization during its
first nine years but operated much below rated capacity after 1971. It was
overhauled in 1975 and has just completed a four month shutdown for overhaul.
Even after rehabilitation this aged plant is only expected to produce at 70
to 80% of its original rated capacity. A second plant, at Ghorasal, was built
in the early 1970s with a design capacity of about 335,000 tpy of urea. This
plant initially encountered mechanical problems and by mid-1974 reached only



- 19 -
80% of its rated capacity. Late that year an explosion in the plant's control
room put it out of commission for most of FY75. Since June 1975 it has been
producing at well below.its rated capacity. A Japanese engineering company
overhauled the plant during the summer of 1978 and it is currently operating
at about 70%. In addition, in order to meet growing phosphate fertilizer
needs, two triple superphosphate (TSP) plants were completed in 1968 and 1970
at Chittagong, based on imported raw materials and with a combined design
capacity of 152,000 tpy. These plants did not begin trial runs until 1974
and 1975 due to mechanical problems and initial raw materials shortages. The
first plant could not be brought into production until 1977 after technical
problems were corrected. The second plant has suffered from insufficient
maintenance and from bottlenecks in the water supply and electricity genera-
tion system. For the past ten months the Chittagong facilities have been
operating at about 40% of capacity, although production rates have improved
considerably in recent months. All four domestic plants are operated by
Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), a semi-autonomous cor-
poration responsible for management of major industries in the public sector,
including fertilizer production which accounts for about 40% of the production
of BCIC enterprises. In addition, a fifth plant is under construction at
Ashuganj, to be operated by the Ashuganj Fertilizer and Chemical Company
(AFCC).  This plant, designed to produce 528,000 tpy of urea, is be,ing fi-
nanced by IDA Credit 527-BD of February 12, 1975 and by seven other lenders.
The Ashuganj project encountered substantial delays and cost overruns and
is currently not expected to be completed until March 1981. (For more
details on the Ashuganj project, see Report No. P-2568-BD of May 18, 1979).
62.       Local production since independence has been erratic and has fallen
short of expected levels as a result of these difficulties. Total production
in FY78 was 260,000 tons compared to 340,000 tons produced in FY77 and a
design capacity of 605,000 tons. In FY79, based on performance to date, pro-
duction is expected to reach about 330,000 tons, still far short of capacity.
(For details see Annex IV, Table 3). To assist in improving productivity of
existing plants, IDA financed under the first Technical Assistance Credit
(409-BD) a Fertilizer Factory Improvement Study designed to identify equipment
needing replacement, develop uniform spare parts supply and procedures for
inventory and routine maintenance and to provide training of BCIC staff in
these procedures. Financing for continued assistance in implementing the re-
commendations of this study is provided under the Second Technical Assistance
Credit (622-BD). Based upon the results of the study, BCIC is preparing a plan
including investments to remove bottlenecks caused by design deficiencies at
the plants, increased training aimed at offsetting the loss of skilled workers
to the Middle East, and other measures designed to improve production of
Bangladesh's fertilizer manufacturing industry (see paragraph 87). These
investments would complement a recently approved US$1.7 million UNDP project
under which consultants would assist in managing the Ghorasal urea factory
and the two TSP factories and would attempt to improve capacity utilization
through removing bottlenecks, establishing a preventive maintenance program
(including the provision of adequate spares), advising on more efficient use
of power supply, improving materials handling at the TSP complex and training
personnel. Assistance in financing raw materials for the fertilizer industry
has been included in the Imports Program Credits.



- 20 -
Marketing and Distribution
63.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC), an
autonomous body under the Ministry of Agriculture, is responsible for the
procurement, distribution and marketing of all agricultural inputs, includ-
ing fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, irrigation pumps and various types of
agricultural machinery. BADC is headed by a Chairman who reports to the
Minister of Agriculture and has five Member Directors who report to the
Chairman (see Annex V). The fertilizer marketing and distribution staff in
1977/78 amounted to about 6,650 including about 130 headquarters personnel.
64.       While the major problem at present is inadequate supply, the fer-
tilizer distribution system has also been handicapped by inadequate planning
and coordination and unavailability of sufficient transport and storage facil-
ities. In order to develop a system capable of effectively distributing
greater quantities in the future, the Government undertook a detailed study
of fertilizer marketing and distribution financed under the first Technical
Assistance Credit (409-BD). The study provided useful information which is
assisting BADC in its fertilizer marketing and storage program, assisted by a
USAID financed project which includes, inter alia, construction of additional
storage capacity for 350,000 tons, and a phased program to develop greater
private sector involvement in fertilizer distribution (see paragraphs 66
and 67).
65.       BADC draws supplies from three ports and three factories, from which
it moves the fertilizer to 67 intermediate warehouses or godowns or directly
to 423 thana level godowns. At the final distribution level, viz. the dealer
level, distribution enters the private sector. Of the 32,000 licensed dealers,
20,000 are estimated to be active, each selling an average of about 25 tons
per year under a price structure which until recently gave them too small a
profit to provide an incentive to promote sales. Until recently, (see para-
graph 66 below) dealers were required to register at the thana warehouse in
the thana where they reside and to purchase from that warehouse or an adjacent
one if it reduced transport costs. Dealers were restricted to selling with-
in their union (subdivision of thana averaging about 12.5 square miles). BADC
holds all the storage space at transit points and intermediary warehouses, as
well as in most thanas. However, approximately 80 thanas cooperatives sell
fertilizer at the thana level and have taken over BADC's warehouses. In all
cases, the dealers are appointed and regulated by BADC.
66.       As a result of a pilot distribution program conducted in 1976 jointly
by BADC and USAID, BADC has recently taken a number of steps to liberalize
distribution. These new measures have increased dealers margins, permitted
farmers to buy from any dealer whether or not in the farmer's own thana, and
simplified the process for becoming a dealer. Backed by a USAID Fertilizer
Distribution Improvement Grant, signed in July 1978, BADC introduced whole-
sale and retail competition among private fertilizer dealers (including coop-
eratives), commencing in December 1978 in the Chittagong Division, which
accounts for one-fourth of the area of the country and a third of total
fertilizer consumption. Based upon the lessons learned in this program, it



- 21 -
is intended that the expansion of private sector fertilizer sales will be
extended during the next fiscal year to the entire country (see paragraph 86).
Under the new system, BADC sells primarily to wholesalers at primary distri-
bution points while retaining responsibility for sales to retailers in remote
and inaccessible thanas. At the primary distribution points, BADC sells at
reduced wholesale rates for large quantity fertilizer purchases and at lesser
discounts to retailers at the'thana warehouses. The resale price is un-
restricted up to the administered price to the farmer. All private dealers
and cooperatives are permitted to buy from all BADC warehouses. Private move-
ment of fertilizer is unrestricted except in the five mile border area. The
Government has undertaken to develop a system whereby private dealers can
obtain sufficient credit from commercial banks and the Krishi Bank, although
credit has not proved to be a problem for dealers at present. USAID is also
financing consultants to assist BADC in setting up and monitoring the new
private sector fertilizer marketing system, and in reviewing measures required
to reduce internal transportation and storage problems.
67.       The marketing system introduced in the Chittagong Division has
enjoyed a successful start. Sales have increased over the last year and
the fifteen primary distribution points, which are the heart of the new
system, are handling two-thirds of the Division's total sales whereas a year
ago all sales were being channeled through 105 thana warehouses.     This has
reduced costs of multiple handling, transport and losses. Many of the thana
warehouses are expected to be closed, leaving mainly those in remote thanas
which have not attracted wholesalers. Retail prices have dropped in areas
around the primary distribution points, and are below official prices except
in remote thanas. The new fertilizer wholesalers are moving fertilizer cheaply
and effectively from surplus areas to areas of need where they sell to dealers
and farmers, thus improving the flow of fertilizer throughout the Division.
Some problems have occurred in remote thanas formerly served by IRDP coopera-
tives on a monopoly basis. In cases where the cooperatives have abandoned
fertilizer distribution upon loss of their monopoly, but where private whole-
salers have not entered the market, BADC may have to reopen thana warehouses.
Credit
68.        Institutional credit for fertilizer is provided primarily by six
commercial banks and one agricultural bank under a liberalized short-term
credit program introduced in FY78 designed to increase use of agricultural
inputs. Repayment of loans for FY78 under this program was only 57% of
what was due and the share of credit allocated to small farmers was less
than intended. The Government is aware of these problems and the banks have
introduced programs for opening of more rural branch offices and improved
staff training designed to improve the repayment record and to increase the
access to credit by small farmers.   The Government has also employed con-
sultants, financed under the First and Second IDA Technical Assistance
Credits (409-BD and 622-BD), to recommend measures for longer term improve-
ments in the agricultural credit system.



- 22 -
Transportation
69.       Although in recent years fertilizer has accounted for a small part
of total freight movement (about 3% at ports, 8.5% of rail freight and 8% of
the inland water cargo) the inefficient transport system has been a constraint
to fertilizer availability and use. While GOB has been taking various steps
to improve transport operations in general, the extent of the problem makes
it unrealistic to expect more than gradual improvements. Meanwhile, some
short-term improvements in the fertilizer distribution system have been made
in the light of the IDA financed fertilizer distribution study (paragraph 64).
With the assistance of USAID financed consultants, BADC is preparing programs
for short-term specific actions to improve the fertilizer transport system,
including: (a) scheduling of vessel arrivals for fertilizer imports at
Chittagong and Chalna to avoid bunching; and (b) improvements in the con-
tracting arrangements for private truckers and inland water transport carriers.
In addition, consideration is being given to the introduction of block or
possibly unit trains for fertilizer movement on rail and a reduction in the
number of rail distribution centers. By coordinating the logistics of fer-
tilizer movement and ensuring that fertilizer is given sufficient priority,
the newly created fertilizer coordinating committee (see paragraph 88 below)
should help ensure that projected FY80 fertilizer requirements are transported
without undue adverse effects on the transport of other commodities. For
longer-term improvements, the operations and capacity of the existing inland
water fleet are now under review under the Second Inland Water Transport
Project (Credit 735-BD). In addition, a feasibility study for bulk handling
facilities for fertilizer imports (financed by USAID), is currently under
review. These facilities together with possible additional investments to
improve fertilizer transport are being considered for financing under the
proposed Fertilizer Sector Credit (see paragraph 53).
Storage
70.       As noted in paragraph 59, storage for five months fertilizer con-
sumption is necessary to compensate for the unreliable nature of internal
transportation, domestic production, and import arrivals, and to ensure
adequate supplies for the distribution system. While this involves some
expense, it is much less costly than production lost because of fertil-
izer shortages. Current fertilizer storage facilities total 438,000 tons
(153,000 tons BADC owned storage, 200,000 tons of leased storage and 85,000
tons of factory storage) and are adequate for FY79 consumption. The 63,000
tons of additional storage currently under construction, about 35,000 tons
with USAID financing, should enable BADC to handle the additional consumption
forecast for FY80. However, the leased facilities are generally poorly con-
structed and in some cases also not ideally located, and should be considered
suitable only as a short-term expedient. In addition, the capacity of inter-
mediate, principal distribution points and transit godowns is only 158,470
long tons (as of March 1979). This basic warehouse capacity determines the
maximum that can be kept in inventory without double handling. Furthermore,
inadequate storage space in many thanas has restricted expansion of fertilizer
sales. An additional 173,000 long tons of storage are programmed under the



- 23 -
USAID financed program scheduled to be started during the next construction
season. These additions and the possibility of more private facilities be-
coming available with the proposed increased reliance on private distribution
should make any shortfall in total storage capacity short-lived. However,
some additional storage may be required in particular locations, such as in
remote and inaccessible thanas or in new primary distribution points which
may be established as the private fertilizer wholesaling program is expanded
beyond Chittagong. Increased storage capacity at the factories combined with
improvements in their dehumidification systems may also be required to permit
the factories to keep operating at times when the transport system is dis-
rupted. The need for additional storage capacity will be kept under review
by IDA and USAID.
Fertilizer Pricing
71.       The relative prices of foodgrain output and fertilizer are central
to a production strategy involving increased fertilizer use. Sustained farmer
demand for fertilizer depends primarily on the expected output price and cost
of fertilizer. Clearly, a lower fertilizer price via a fertilizer subsidy,
or alternatively a higher foodgrain price, through a Government procurement
program, tend to increase the demand for fertilizer.
72.       Ever since its introduction in Bangladesh, fertilizer has been
subsidized to promote its use. BADC purchases fertilizer and receives a
subsidy from the Government to cover the difference between its procurement
and distribution cost and its sales revenues. The subsidy thus defined 1/
had risen rapidly in recent years, as indicated below:
Fertilizer Subsidy
% of Cost
(Taka Million)    Subsidized
1973/74                     28             9.3
1974/75                    150            30.5
1975/76                    485            46.3
1976/77                    644            46.1
1977/78                  1,200            50.0
1978/79 (Est.)        1,400-1,500         50.1
This rapid rise has occurred despite a 140% increase in domestic fertilizer
prices during the period, the most recent being an average 16% increase
effective July 1, 19.78.  Based on the fertilizer use pattern of 1976/77, the
weighted average retail price of fertilizer has risen from Tk 27/Md in 1973/74
1/   The economic subsidy based on the CIF costs of free market imports would
be somewhat different since the CIF price of tied bilateral aid is 15-20%
above the international market price and average ex-factory cost of dom-
estically produced urea is 30% below the CIF free market price whereas
the average cost of domestically produced TSP is about double the free
market price.



- 24 -
to Tk 65 Md in 1978/79. The fertilizer subsidy now accounts for about 75%
of all development expenditures by the Ministry of Agriculture and 10% of the
Government's entire development budget. It is believed to have contributed
to the shortage of Taka funds for agricultural development projects, parti-
cularly since it is included as an integral part of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture's development budget and since underestimates in the amount required
for the fertilizer subsidy lead to disruptions in cash availability for other
agricultural development expenditures. In addition, the fertilizer subsidy
has tended to limit fertilizer supply to the amount which the Government
considered it could afford to subsidize (see paragraph 84).
73.       Until 1976, the Government had no policy of supporting the output
price. Nevertheless, it procured foodgrains to supplement imports in meeting
the requirement for the ration distribution. Since FY76, however, the Gov-
ernment's procurement program has been partly designed also to provide an
incentive price to farmers. In FY78, about 550,000 tons of foodgrains were
procured at a price of Tk 132/MD, announced well ahead of the season. It
is believed that this operation had a significant impact on supporting farm-
gate prices following the Aman harvest. The program, however, constituted
a considerable drain on government resources due to the re-sale of grains
at a ration price about 30 percent below the procurement price.
74.       While the fertilizer subsidy and the output price support both have
a positive effect on fertilizer use, these two policy instruments differ in
their cost-effectiveness and their budgetary implication. Other things
being equal, it is probable that the same output response can be achieved
at a lower government cost under a procurement policy than under a fertilizer
subsidy. 1/ This is because a higher output price is a more direct form of
incentive and encourages the farmer to use the most cost-effective input
mix, while the fertilizer subsidy constrains the output response to incentive
for increased use of one input and relatively large subsidies in circumstances
of fertilizer shortage lead to black marketing and smuggling. To be sure,
a fertilizer subsidy is likely to be a cost-effective means of raising pro-
duction in the early stages of its adoption. But heavy subsidies can hardly
be justified as a permanent policy, since a large number of farmers have
learned the benefits of fertilizer and considerable excess demand exists at
current prices.
75.       At the present procurement price for rice, the Bangladesh farmer
who obtains fertilizer at the official price enjoys a paddy/fertilizer price
ratio of 1.29:1, one of the most favorable in the world. Fertilizer prices
in Bangladesh in 1979 were only about half that in neighboring West Bengal.
An improved supply situation combined with a reasonable increase in the
official price is expected to reduce black market prices considerably and in
many cases would lead to reductions in the actual amounts paid by farmers for
fertilizer, particularly in the case of small farmers or farmers in remote
locations.
1/   For discussion of this issue, see Bangladesh:    Current Trends and Dev-
elopment Issues, A World Bank Country Study, March 1979, Annex I.



- 25 -
76.       Based on a recent USAID field study, it may be estimated that for
an average farmer who obtains fertilizer at the official price, a price in-
crease of 30 percent, for instance, would increase overall paddy production
costs by less than 5 percent. The small impact on costs explains why past
increases in fertilizer prices, though often much larger than 30 percent, have
not had a noticeable effect on fertilizer offtake. Indeed, year-to year re-
ductions in the rate of fertilizer consumption growth below the 17% average
have been related almost entirely to weather factors and supply and distribu-
tion problems. Taking account of past experiences with price increases
together with the high black market prices paid by farmers and the small
anticipated impact of price increase on overall costs, it is unlikely that a
reasonable reduction in subsidy (see paragraph 82) would have a significant
effect on fertilizer usage.
77.      'To offset a reduction in fertilizer subsidy a higher output price
would be desirable; any increase' in the procurement price on this account
could be small. Farmer incentives need to be kept under constant surveillance,
not only in the light of a lowering of the fertilizer subsidy but more import-
antly to take account of overall inflation rates in Bangladesh. The expanded
application of fertilizer as well as other inputs will depend on the expecta-
tion of an attractive price by farmers. An increase in the procurement price,
however, implies an increase in food subsidy unless ration prices are raised.
Thus, increased reliance on output price support should be viewed in conjunc-
tion with the Government's policy for gradual reduction in food subsidies
based upon recommendations of a committee on this subject referred to in para-
graph 21. The Government's recent decision to increase rice ration prices by
20% would be sufficient to balance any increase in procurement price (see
paragraph 83) required in the near future to provide adequate farmer incentives.
PART V - THE CREDIT
78.       The proposed Credit was appraised by a mission which visited Bangla-
desh from March 20 to April 6, 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington
beginning May 30, 1979. The Government of Bangladesh was represented by a
team led by Mr. A. Samad, Chairman of BADC.
79.       Bangladesh agriculture is faced with numerous constraints (para-
graphs 46-48), which are difficult to overcome within a short period of time.
Nevertheless, taking account of year-to-year fluctuations due to the weather,
Bangladesh has made reasonable progress since 1974 in increasing foodgrain
production by an average of about 4% per annum through a strategy based upon
quick gestation period irrigation programs. (low-lift pumps and tubewells),
and increasing use of fertilizer. Fertilizer can have a greater impact on
production than other inputs in the short run due the familiarity of most
farmers with its use and the quick response in crop production even when
applied at lower than recommended levels. It is used by small as well as
large farmers, with a tendency for small farmers to use more fertilizer per
acre than large farmers when sufficient fertilizer is available (see para-
graph 96).



- 26 -
80.       As noted in Part IV of this report, IDA is currently assisting
Bangladesh in reducing its fertilizer import requirements through financing
the 520,000 tpy Ashuganj fertilizer project which is expected to begin pro-
duction during FY81. However, until the Ashuganj factory completes its
breaking-in period and is operating near capacity, Bangladesh will need un-
usual levels of imports in order to maintain the momentum of its agricultural
development efforts.
The Policy Focus
81.       The proposed credit will help to finance the agreed offtake program
for FY80 and lay the basis for a sustained increase in fertilizer use. The
previous section (see paragraphs 71-77) pointed out that a strategy to raise
fertilizer use over time can be efficiently administered and, to a large
extent, is feasible only within a framework of rational pricing policies.
During the last two or three years, a dialogue has taken place between the
Government and the Bank on price policy reforms. Many of the Bank's recommend-
ations relating to agricultural pricing are summarized in Bangladesh: Food
Policy Review (Report No. 1764a-BD) dated December 12, 1977. The proposed
credit supports a program of action to attack the key constraints affecting
the fertilizer sector. These measures include: (a) reducing the fertilizer
subsidy, (b) maintaining incentive procurement prices for grain, (c) isolating
the agricultural development budget from the fertilizer subsidies, (d) estab-
lishing a high-level fertilizer coordination committee, (e) taking measures
to encourage the private distribution of fertilizers, (f) taking additional
actions based upon the results of consultants' studies and programs currently
in progress to improve the performance of Bangladesh's domestic fertilizer
industry, (g) reviewing contracting procedures for private fertilizer tran-
sport carriers and taking additional actions based upon the results of ongoing
consultants studies to increase the efficiency of Bangladesh's fertilizer
transport and distribution systems, and (h) taking all necesary action in-
cluding the utilization of its own foreign exchange if necessary, to ensure
availability of sufficient fertilizer to meet an agreed FY80 consumption
target.
(a) Reduction in the Fertilizer Subsidy
82.       The Government has indicated its intention (paragraph 4 of Supple-
mental Letter entitled Fertilizer Policy Statement) to progressively decrease
the fertilizer subsidy over time and to eliminate it before the end of the
second five-year plan period (ending June 30, 1985). As a first step the
Government intends to increase its fertilizer prices early in FY80 by an
average of about 28%. Enactment of these increases would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (see Section 4.01 of Development Credit
Agreement). Assuming a 5% increase in the cif costs of imported fertilizer and
no increase in the cost of local procurement or distribution for fertilizers,
the domestic fertilizer price increase would reduce the total subsidy for a
1979/80 offtake of one million tons by Tk 0.5 billion to Tk 1.3 billion,
compared with the projected level of about Tk 1.8 billion without the price
increases. In view of possible further increases in the price of imported
fertilizer or in shipping costs, the Government and IDA have agreed to consult



- 27 -
with each other at the request of either party, but at least once a year, to
review the effect of fertilizer price movements on the level of the subsidy
so as to ensure continued progress in reducing the total cost of the subsidy
even in case of upward movements in international fertilizer prices (Section
3.07(a) of Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Maintenance of Incentive Foodgrain Procurement Price
83.       The Government has agreed to set the foodgrain procurement price at
a level designed to provide adequate production incentives to farmers and to
review the adequacy of such prices at least at the time of each increase in
fertilizer prices (Section 3.07(b) of Development Credit Agreement). It is
estimated that the 28% average increase in the price of fertilizer would be
fully offset by a 5% increase in grain procurement prices; more important are
movements in the prices of other inputs and the general level of inflation.
The recently announced 20% increase in the procurement price of rice is
considered to be sufficient to maintain adequate farmer incentives for the
near future.
(c) Removal of the Financial Provision for Fertilizer Subsidies
from the Ministry of Agriculture Development Budget
84.       The fertilizer price subsidy is paid out of the agricultural allo-
cation in the development budget. All fertilizer imports, including those
under foreign grants which are cost-free to the Government, are counted at
full cost in the subsidy calculation, and are for this purpose treated the
same as commercial imports. The Government has agreed to maintain a separate
account for the fertilizer subsidy and to ensure that increases in the actual
amount of the subsidy over that budgeted for this purpose would not reduce
funds available for other agricultural development projects. The Government
has also undertaken to-examine the advantages and disadvantages of alternative
methods for budgeting of and accounting for any fertilizer subsidy and to
inform the Association of the results by January 1, 1980 (Section 3.08 of
Development Credit Agreement).
(d) Establishment of a High-level Fertilizer Coordination Committee
85.       The Government has expanded the terms of reference of the Council
Committee on Food (consisting of the President as Chairman, the Prime Minister,
the Ministers for Food, Irrigation, Foreign Affairs, Planning, Finance, Agri-
culture, Commerce, Industry and Ports and Shipping) so as to cover fertilizer
as well as food. This Committee will coordinate policies relating to fer-
tilizer including (i) production, availability and import requirements,
(ii) pricing policy, (iii) marketing and distribution policy, (iv) transpor-
tation, storage and related facilities, and (v) financing policies including
preparation of the fertilizer budget (Section 3.09 of Development Credit
Agreement). The Council Committee will be assisted by a Food Planning and
Monitoring Unit, including a technical secretariat which will be suitably
staffed to service the Committee on matters relating to fertilizer by January
1, 1980. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations for the provision



- 28 -
of sufficient staff to enable the secretariat to carry out its responsibili-
ties is a condition of effectiveness (Section 4.01 of Development Credit
Agreement). Consultants to assist in establishing this technical secretariat
may be financed under the Third Technical Assistance Credit (872-BD). The
Government will annually provide the Association with a of its program for
fertilizer supply and distribution in time for the Association to comment
(Section 3.09 of Development Credit Agreement).
(e) Measures for the Encouragement of Private Fertilizer Distribution
86.       The Government has indicated its intention (paragraph 7 of Supple-
mental Letter) to maintain adequate retailers and wholesalers margins and to
give priority in allocation of fertilizer for areas where private distribution
is being introduced, including maintenance of adequate stocks in those areas.
As noted in paragraph 67, the private sector marketing system in Chittagong
has had a successful start with full cooperation of the relevant agencies.
The Government's Policy Statement indicates the Government's intention, based
upon the results of the Chittagong program, to expand the private sector
marketing system to cover the entire country during FY80.
(f) Measures for Improvement in Domestic Fertilizer Production
87.       As described in Part III, various studies are currently underway,
financed inter alia by IDA, UNDP and USAID, to develop measures for increasing
the production of Bangladesh's domestic fertilizer industry. The Fertilizer
Policy Statement indicates the Government's intention to take action, based
upon the results of these studies, for improvement in these fields. The
Government will prepare a plan by December 31, 1979, for discussion with
the Association, for investments to remove production bottlenecks and other
measures to improve production of Bangladesh's fertilizer manufacturing
industry (Section 3.11 of Development Credit Agreement). The assistance of
the UNDP financed fertilizer production experts in the operation and mainte-
nance of Bangladesh's fertilizer production plants (see paragraph 66) is
expected by the end of two years to lead to increases in production of about
135,000 tons over projected FY79 production, exclusive of the additional
benefits which may occur due to the proposed debottlenecking investments
referred to above.
(g) Measures for Improving the Fertilizer Transportation System
88.       As noted in paragraph 69, USAID is financing consultants to assist
BADC in improving fertilizer transport and distribution systems. IDA is also
financing consultants reviewing general requirements for improving inland
water transportation. The Government will award contracts for private sector
shipment of fertilizer by road or inland water transport by competitive bid-
ding, taking account of contractors' qualifications and past performance and
of the need on occasion to utilize more expeditious procedures to meet un-
expected requirements (Section 3.10 of Development Credit Agreement). The
Government will also complete by January 1, 1980 a review of its procedures
for contracting with road and inland water transport fertilizer carriers,
including the adequacy of penalities for poor performance, and of carrier
prequalification standards and the possibilities of incentives for better



- 29 -
than expected performance, and shall inform the Association of the results of
such review. The activities of the Council Committee on Food in coordinating
the logistics of fertilizer movement should also help in improving the fertil-
izer distribution system. The new marketing system in Chittagong District, by
giving greater responsibilities in fertilizer transport to private wholesalers,
should add-greater flexibility over what can be done by BADC following govern-
mental regulations for transport contracting. The Government has also indi-
cated its intention (paragraph 9-11 of Supplemental Letter) to give priority
to fertilizer, second only to food, in allocation of Government transport
resources, and to take further actions, based upon the recommendations of the
USAID and IDA financed consultants, to improve the operations of the fertil-
izer transportation system including the introduction of block or unit trains
for fertilizer movement, reduction in the number of rail distribution centers,
and improved scheduling of fertilizer arrival at the ports. The Government
also intends to invite bids for fertilizer supply allowing alternatives of
(i) bulk shipment with bagging on board or (ii) shipping in bags in order to
determine whether cost of imported fertilizer can be reduced through bulk
shipment.
(h) Assurance of Adequate Fertilizer Supply
89.       Consumption early in FY79 was held down by lack of supplies, with
acute shortages and black market prices reported in most parts of Bangladesh.
Allowing for this supply shortage in FY79, it is estimated by IDA and the
Government that, given adequate supplies and appropriate grain pricing poli-
cies, FY80 fertilizer consumption would increase by 25% to one million tons
(see paragraph 60). Adding five months consumption requirement for stocks
in transit and storage to service the system increases the total fertilizer
required during FY80 to 1,485,000 tons. Assuming that the measures described
in paragraph 62 to improve productivity of the domestic fertilizer industry
increase FY80 production to 390,000 tons, and given opening stocks of about
325,000 tons, the import requirement is estimated to be about 770,000 tons.
Bangladesh succeeded in FY79 in-mobilizing fertilizer assistance from various
donors which permitted a 65% increase in fertilizer imports over FY78 (from
387,000 tons to 640,000 tons) but this was not sufficient to meet demand due
to increased demand and the depletion of stocks which occurred during FY78.
For FY80 to date firm or reasonably firm aid finance and barter arrangements
(including $25 million from the EEC Special Action Credit, $5 million from the
Seventh IDA Program Credit and $1.6 million from the IDA Rural Development
Credit) are available to cover about 588,000 tons, leaving a gap of about
184,000 tons (see Annex IV Table 5). The gap may be greater if international
fertilizer prices increase over presently projected levels or if the increase
in domestic production is less than projected. The proposed IDA credit would
finance about 120,000 tons of urea or TSP/DAP at presently projected FY80
prices, leaving' Bangladesh to find finance for an additional 64,000 tons.
The Government has agreed (Section 3.12 of Development Credit Agreement)
to take all necessary action, including the utilization of its own foreign
exchange to the -extent that sufficient external financing is not available,
to ensure availability of sufficient fertilizer in Bangladesh at the appro-
priate seasons to support a fertilizer consumption target for FY80 of one
million tons (or such alternati:ve target as may be agreed with the Association



- 30 -
during FY80 in light of weather or other extraneous events) and to end the
fiscal year with adequate stocks to support the projected offtake for the
first five months of FY81. IDA will assist Bangladesh in its efforts to
mobilize additional fertilizer assistance at the Bangladesh Aid Group meetings.
In addition, donor meetings in Dacca will be scheduled regularly to review the
adequacy of the fertilizer supply situation and of the Government's fertilizer
policies and programs, and the possible need for additional imports. These
meetings will also continue efforts to coordinate the assistance being pro-
vided by various agencies in the fertilizer sector.
Administration of the Credit
90.       BADC would be the principal agency responsible for implementation
of the proposed credit. In spite of its deficiencies (see paragraph 64)
BADC has succeeded in handling large increases in recent years in the amount
of fertilizer procured and distributed. Improvements in its distribution
systems are being undertaken (paragraphs 66 and 67) and technical assistance
has been arranged in a number of areas related to organization, planning and
management in order to assist BADC in reducing distribution costs and improv-
ing efficiency.
91.       Under the ongoing USAID Fertilizer Distribution Improvement Project,
BADC has retained the International Fertilizer Development Center (IFDC) as
consultants to assist in introduction of the new marketing system. The initial
one-year contract with IFDC will probably be extended to three years. A
marketing consultant is advising BADC on how best to fill the immediate import
gap, on sales promotion, advertising, pricing, organizational planning, dealer
operations, sales forecasting and collection and analysis of marketing and
cost information. A second consultant is assisting BADC in problems of
distribution, covering internal transport with an emphasis on major movements
out of Chittagong and Chalna, and BADC's contracting procedures for fertilizer
movement. He will also advise on warehousing, stock levels and inventory
control, procurement, field supervision and collection and analysis of ware-
house and movement costs. Other, short-term consultants under this contract
are expected to cover such areas as credit, financial accounting, training,
socio-economic surveys on the equity of fertilizer use, agronomy, agricultural
economics, product handling, transportation equipment, statistical design,
computer programming, data processing, communications and organizational plan-
ning. IFDC is also assisting BADC in monitoring private sector sales and
providing assistance to wholesale and retail dealers. The consultants will
undertake a study of distribution costs under the new marketing system to
determine the adequacy of the wholesale dealer commissions and the discounts
they in turn allow retail dealers. They will also assist BADC to formulate
and implement a scheme to provide credit to fertilizer dealers for fertilizer,
transport equipment and warehouses.
92.       Under the Third Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 872-BD), IDA will
be financing consultants to assist BADC in improving its financial management
and accounting. Initially, emphasis will be placed on improving internal
accounting, cash control, record keeping, stores accounting and communication
procedures. The objective will be to provide management with accurate and



- 31 -
up-to-date expenditure and receipts statistics, related to achievement of
physical targets. BADC is currently negotiating a contract for these
services. Signature of a contract acceptable to IDA will be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Section 4.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
93.       Other agencies are also providing assistance to BADC.     Since 1977,
Ford Foundation has been financing an expert to advise BADC on management
information systems. This has proved successful in improving the flow of
information and reducing the number of reports. ODM (UK) is expected, from
June 1979, to provide consultants in materials movement and management
(fertilizer, seed and mechanical components) with the objective of estab-
lishing the training requirements for the BADC Staff Training Institute at
Madhupur. IDA, USAID, and the other agencies assisting BADC have been in
close contact to ensure that their assistance programs are complementary.
94.       Procurement and Disbursement:    Procurement of fertilizer by BADC
would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. The proposed credit would finance the foreign exchange
cost of fertilizer imports. The Government will deposit taka funds equivalent
to the amounts disbursed by the Association for the fertilizer financed from
the proceeds of the proposed Credit into an account currently being maintained
with the Bangladesh Bank and would utilize these funds entirely to finance
its development programs (Section 3.04 of Development Credit Agreement).
The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1980.
Economic Benefits & Costs
95.       Various studies in Bangladesh have indicated that one unit of fer-
tilizer increases foodgrain production by at least three units. Valuing fer-
tilizer and rice at the international market price, the benefit/cost ratio 1/
of the rice imports saved, divided by the cost of the imported fertilizer
would be about 7.3 (i.e. fertilizer imports of a c.i.f. value of $100 would
reduce rice imports by a c.i.f. value of $730). Even allowing for the costs
of other inputs which complement fertilizer use and the possible inefficien-
cies of fertilizer use in Bangladesh, this ratio indicates a high return to
the economy. Alternatively, if the extra rice is valued at the price received
by Bangladesh farmers, the benefit/cost ratio is 3.0. (This lower ratio would
be appropriate if it were assumed that the additional rice produced would be
used entirely for increased consumption, with no reduction in grain imports).
The fertilizer imports to be financed under the proposed credit would be
expected to permit a reduction in foodgrain imports to a value of between
about $65 million and $150 million, depending upon whether imports of wheat or
rice (or a mixture) are reduced. In any case it is clear that the short-term
benefits of increased fertilizer availability are well in excess of the costs.
1/   The rate of return has not been calculated since the cost and the benefit
of using fertilizers occur almost simultaneously.



- 32 -
96.       The proposed credit would provide significant benefits to the smaller
and tenant farmers and to landless laborers. A 1978 survey indicated that 63%
of sharecroppers use fertilizer as compared to 64% of owner-cultivators.
Various pilot agricultural censuses have indicated that more fertilizer per
acre tends to be used by small rather than by large farmers. Finally, in times
of scarcity available fertilizer is reported frequently to reach the larger
farmers in more than proportional amounts, with availability to the smaller
farmer dependent on adequacy of supply. Thus, the poorer farmers are expected
to be major beneficiaries of the increased fertilizer availability made pos-
sible by the proposed credit. In addition, labor requirements may be expected
to rise as more fertilizer is applied, for a number of reasons: more weeding
is carried out since more is at stake and the increased grain production means
that there is more work harvesting and threshing the grain. This is confirmed
by the USAID Costs of Production Surveys which found that high level fertilizer
users have a labor requirement 60% higher than that of farmers who use no fer-
tilizer, 1/ and while some of this difference can be attributed to other inputs,
it does indicate that fertilizer use contributes significantly to labor require-
ments. Some of this additional labor can probably be provided by the farmers'
own families, but there will be many cases where additional employment is
created for the landless, thereby raising their consumption of food and other
essentials. Multiplier effects may also act at a local level as greater farmer
incomes generate demand for other goods and services and generally provide a
boost to the local economy, providing employment and income for the landless
and those for whom farm production cannot provide an adequate livelihood.
Risks
97.       There is a small risk that fertilizer consumption could be reduced
below expected levels due to flooding or drought. In such circumstances import
arrivals would be rephased to assist in meeting FY81 requirements.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
98.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Supplemental Letter (Fertilizer
Policy Statement) and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Additional conditions to the effective-
ness of the Development Credit Agreement would be signature of an acceptable
contract for consultants services to assist BADC in improving its financial
management and accounting (paragraph 92), enactment of increases in the domestic
fertilizer price (paragraph 82), and completion of a staffing plan and admin-
istrative authorizations for the provision of sufficient staff to enable the
secretariat serving the coordinating committee to carry out its responsibil-
ities (paragraph 85).
1/   This corresponds to each additional ton of fertilizer per year providing
one job.



- 33 -
99.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and amendments would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
100.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 8, 1979



- 34 -
ANNEX I
TAN1. 3S
RAIGLADRAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
IACLADIII                                             /a
LAND AREA (TUOUSASD SQ. DW.)                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIXATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                                SAME        SANE     NEXT HIGHER
ACRICULTURAL     101.1                               MOST RECENT    GEOGRPHIC     INCOME      INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb     RECION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 40.0        60.0      90.0           167.4     182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSIMPTION PER CAITA
(KILOGRAMS OF ODAL EQUIVALENT)       ..         ..      28.0            65.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KED-TR
(MILLIONS)                       53.9        70.8     82.7
UlBAI POPULATI0N (PERCeNT OP TOTAL) 4.8         6.4       9.2            12.8      15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Km.                     374.0       492.0     574.0            85.2      46.8        42.7
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAID   566.0       730.0     818.0           322.6     254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PrCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3        46.4      46.2            44.0      43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.0      51.1           52.9       53.3        52.8
65 YES. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6       2.6            2.9        2.9         3.0
POPULATION SROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7         2.8       2.1 /f          2.2       2.4         2.7
UIRBAN                             ..         6.2       7.4             4.2       4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TROUSAJD)    49.8        50.3      49.5            45.1      44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TrHOUSAI)    27.2        22.9      28.1            17.3       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5         3.1        ..             3.2       2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLIANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       345.6     655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED IR)      ..          ..       4.7            13.7       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX oF POD IPRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           106.2       100.0      93.7            95.6       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PIRCCNT OF
RRQUIDERlTSS)                  89.0        89.0      93.0            91.1       92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRmS PER DAY)          42.6          ..      58.5            49.6       50.0       56.8
OF iAlCH ANIMAL AID PULSE       9.2lj        ..       8.0            12.6       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NONTALITY RATE       ..         ..        ..              ..         ..         7.5
H;ALTH
LIFE EPCTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)     38.r        43.3      45.0            43.1       45.8        53.3
INANT flTALITY RATE (PER
TNUUSAD)                             ..          ..     140.0            99.5      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERICNT OF
POrULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0      56.0            30.0       26.4        31.1
UIn                                 ..       13.0      22.0            66.3       63.5        68.5
ItRAL.                              .        47.0      61.0            17.2       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL (PENC1T
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0       5.0            15.7       16.1        37.5
UtEli                              ..          ..      40.0            66.9       65.9       69.5
IURAL                               ..         ..        ..             2.5        3.4        25;4
POPULATIOO PER PHYSICIN          1OODO.0 /h  7600.Oh 11000.0          8830.8    13432.7      9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSII PERSON    110000.0 /h  72030.0/h 56070.0         8479.3     6983.3      2762.5
POPUIATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          11000.0 /1  8120.0 /1 5200.0          1624.5     1157.6       786.5
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..              ..      183.3       278.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..     1348.8      1358.4
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..        ..              ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..        5.2
URAN                                ..         ..        ..              ..        4.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        5.3
AVERASE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..         .           .
URIAN                               ..         ..        ..              ..        1.8         2. 3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       25.9        26.3
URBAN                               ..         ..       3.0
RURAL                              ..           ..       ..              ..        8.7        10.3



ANNEX I
TBLE 3A
BANGLAESII - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                            /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
NDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME      INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EgROLLMNT RATIOS
PRDIART:     TOTAL                47.0       61.0      73.0            59.1       62.9        75.8
13KALg               26.0        42.0      51.0            38.4      45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 8.0        19.0     25.0            19.9       14.4        17.7
FgMALE                1.0         8.0      11.0             9.9       8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0         1.0        ..            1.5        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIIARY                             ..        49.0     50.0            38.2       38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                           ..        26.0     24.0            23.5       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCgT)        21.6          ..      23.0            35.6      36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        0.4       0.4 /1          2.2        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TBDUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        6.0         ..           14.9       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..              ..       2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          .,       5.0            6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        ..              ..       1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0     24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        16.5      17.0           21.3       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0        86.0      78.0           62.8       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.3        3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               36.0        34.6      34.4            35.8      39.8        37.8
MALE                                58.7        55.8      55.3            52.4      53.3        50.3
FEMALE                              11.4        11.8      12.1            15.6      19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.3         1.4       1.4             1.3       1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k     16.7 /1     *             18.6      20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k     42.3 L      ..           42.8       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 /k      7.9 /      ..             7.3       5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 /k     19.6 /1     ..            19.3       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (uS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     110.0            80.2      88.5        155.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      90.0            67.2       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..      100.8       143.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      29.0            39.8       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      61.0            50.3       46.0        22.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      70.0            44.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Aaia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);   /f  The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of Independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.8 per annum; /R Av. 1961-b5; /h Registered, not all practicing in the
country; /i Govt. establishments only; / 1972; /k 1963-64; /1 1966-67.
September, 1978



- 36     -
DEFNThITTU Of mDCIii    MICATO1                                                   Pout. 3
Har: The adutdgopseae                 o   ahjdctraepoplati-n-weightsd geometric amens, emciuding the axtrin                 valusa of the indicator and the moat
ppetdcuntry in each group.      Coverage of Couetries aMOng the indicators depends on availability of dote end is not uniform.       Sue to lack of data,
froJpuvergeo Pus Caplcai Suarplus OiL Emporters end indicators of ec..sa to water end socrret. disopsel, houaing, income distributios en pove rty are
niople pupulutio-weighted geometric nane. without the eacluaion of emtrmw valus.
LAND ARLEA (thouua..d eq. ho                                                          Posplatim pear hospital bed - to tal, urban. sod rural - Population (cucal,
Total - Tocul ourfac   area copi      legand area and inland eaters,                   urban, and rural) divided by thair respective number og hospital bded
Aoric.1tcral - Hoot recect estimate of agricultural area used temporarily              available in public and private general end epeclalized hospital end c-
orpermanently fur crops, pootur.o. market and k,itchen gardens or to               habilitatimcanc.taer.    Hospitals are  seatblia'mte perm,anently staffed by
ltfollow,                                                                          at least one physician.   fEcablishoente providing prioscipolly custodial
care era not included. Rural hospitals. however, include health and medi-
GPPRCAPITA (USf   - GNP per nopite estimates at current market prices,              Cal centers not permaently staffed by a phycician (hut hy a medical as-
cu1icltcd hy same conve.rsion method    a World Bask Atlas (1975-77 basis);          sistant, nas      1mdwife, etc.) which offer in-patient a.ccmodetior and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                           provide a limited reage of medical facilitIeo.
Admissions par hospital bed - Total number of admi.sin.s to or dionhargas
iENiRG  CONSUMPPTION icER CAPITA, - Annual consumption of comsarcial ene rgy            from hospitals divided by the nuber of hedo..
(Coal and lignite, petroleum, natural ge and hydro-, nuclear end gao-
thermal electricity) in kilograma of coal equivalent per capita.                lIUSUIG
Avarsa alec of houmebeld (Der..... ear ho.aeho1d) - total. urha. and rural -
POPULATION ArND VITAL STATISTICS                                                        A household consists of a group of individuale who share lining quarters
Total 'poputoion. mid-yetr (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                end their main meal.    A hoarder or ledger may or may not be included in
uv rerogo oftw  end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, sod 1977 data.                       the houmahold gor statistical purposes.    Statistical definitions of hosee-
irhan populotion (percen.t of total) - katio of urban to total popule-                 hold very.
tion; different definitions of urban ereas may affect comparability               Average nuber of persons per room - total, tmtan, And rural - AveraBe nn
of data amog countries.                                                              her of peraome per roo   is all,   rbhso, and rural occupied co-oeniomaI
Populutios de...ity                                                                    dwellings, respectively.   Dwellings esolude non-penmanet structures end
Per Os. km. - Mid-yoar population, per equare kilomter (100 hacteree)                 unoccupied ports.
of ,totl ore.                                                                     Access to electricity (maromot of dwellioa.) - total, urban, and rural -
Per o. ho. agriculture land - Computed as shove for agricultural land                 Conventional dsellinga with electricity in, l1ivig quartets as percentage
only,                                                                                of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Ponulcion ass tcructure (percent     - Children (0-li year). working-age
(15-hi yours), and retired (65 years and over) as perctentges of mid-           EDUCATION
year popularion.                                                                 Adjusted aeollpeent ratios
FPopultion urowth rote (percent) - total. and urbn" - Copmpond annua                 Primary school - total, and femle - Total and fenale enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age.
1960-70, sod 1970-75.                                                                populations; normally includes children aged 6-1l years hot adjusted fur
Crude birth ctet (per thousand) - Annua    live births per thousand of                 different lengths of primary educatIon; for countries with universal ed.-
mid-year population; ten-year atithoetic averages ending in 1960 and                 cation enrollment may emce.ed 100 percent since .om    pupile are below or
1970 and five-ye- s  --ves5  ending Is 1975 for most recent estimate.                above the official school age.
Crde death rate (per thousand) - Annua    deatha per thousand of mid-              Secondary school - total. and female - Computed as ahov; secondary educe-
yenr population; ten-year arithmetic avereges ending in 1960 and 1970                tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fiv-you    avrage ending In 1975 for mast recent estimate,                       video ge..erel voctional, or teether training instructions for Pupils
irons reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence cuorees are generally
inher norma  reproductive period if she emperieucs pr.eset age-                    secluded.
specifIc fe-tility rates; usualIly fi-s-ya     avaragas ending in 1960,            Ooai     lerlmn         orc..nt of seondary) - Vocational inetituci... In-
1970, and 1975.                                                                      clodset-ecnal, indusRtrial, or other programs whIch operate independently
Family planning - accentore. annual (thousands) - Annual essbor of                     or us departments of escondery institutions,
acceptors of birth-control devIces under auspices of national family              Pupil-teacher ratio- pr   May       andecacndary - Total students enrolled is
planning program.                                                                    primary and saonay      evl    divided by numbers of teochers in the corre-
Fcoily pluo..ioc - users (parcuot of maried wmn         Percantage of                  sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing agE (15-hi years) who use birth-control            Adult lit-erac  rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write)a
devices t   al  nrriod women in same ae.    group,                                   a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years sod over.
POll AND1 NUTRITION'                                                                CONSUMPTION
Inden of food production per capita (1970-100) - loden number of Per                Passenge.r nets (per thousand population) - Peasngar cars comprise motor Cars
capIta un..aI production of all Pond comeobdities.                                 sea ting lens than eight peraons; secludes amulances, hearses and military
Per coolta supply of Calories (percent of resuiroawnte) - Computed from              vehiclee.
ene rgy equivalent of net fond eupplito available in country per capita           Radio receivers (net thouaamd ponulation) - All typos of receivers for radio
per day.   Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less           broadcasts to general public par thousand of population; sacladee unlicensd
omport,   Cdchanges in stock.     Net supplies seclude animal feed, seeds,         re eivers In countries end in years when registration of radio eats was in
qusrtie     used in food processing, and losses in distribution.     lie-          effect; data for recet yesre may mat he comparable since mast countries
quicemeorts were estimated by FAD base.d on physiological nee ds for mar-          abolished licensing.
nol actIcity ond health cons.idering environmental temperature, body              TV receivers (per thousand populatloo) - TV receivers for brnadceat to genert
ceighto, age and sea dietributlons of population, and allowing 10 Per-               public per thousanmd population; sexcludes moliceneed TV recei-ver   in tea-
cont for unste at household level,                                                   tries and in years vhen registretion. of 7V sets was in aifect.
Per copito supply of pr7totei1n (grams per day) - Protein content of per            Newapan.rfcidrcoarItoD (per thoucedpouai) - Show           the a-erasa cru
cspits net -upply offodprday.Ne splof fon                 is defined as              tin o"dily geerarl interest swepapar", defined as a parilodcel publl-
above.   Requiremets for ull countriest esta.blisohedfbydISDA provide for            cation devoted primarily to recording general news.     St is comsidend to
o  limue sliow-nce of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 groin               be "daily" if it sppears at least Pour tines a weak.
of animal end pulse protein, of wbicb 10 grams ahould be animal Protein.          Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - iSsed on ch number of tickets
Theo ora-tndurds sre lower than thoae of 75 gram    of total protein and             sold during the year. including admiselona to drive-in nimas and mobile
23 gramo of nolma   protein as as s-rage for the world, proposed by                  welts..
FAO In the ThIrd World Pond Survy.
Per cpitaprotin supply from animal and pulse - Protelo supply of food         DIPIOYNEIf
derIved from animals1so    pu,lsesI  grompr     day,                              Total labor force (thousands) - Economlcally s-tiv- persona     imcluding armed
Ch1Ild (u     -)mraiyrt(prtosn) - AnnualI deaths Per thowa-                            forces and unemployed but enclding hous-Iemie, stodete, etc.        Definl-
and to age group 1-h years, to Children in this age group,                           clone invrious countries see. not nomparable.
Femal (prcent)     .-IPeal  labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                               Agriculture (percent) - L.abr force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Lifo espeotuncf at birth (years) - Average number of years oP lift                     as percentage of total labor force.
remining et birch; eusully fine-year averages ending In 1960. 1970,               Industry (p.eret) - Labor force in mioleg, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                            electriciy   waered Bo      sa p    rcnae  of total labor force.
1nfuoc mortllity race (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               Participation rt     pret     - toPtal. usi. an    female - Total, male, and
one .yea   of agetper thousand.live brhts..                                           'snob .labor force aso perce-tage   of their   -pecpstlot populations.
Acces  tonf     ae    preto        ouain         otal, urban, ad rural -              These  re 05.0's adjusted participation rates reflecting ag-sea
Number of people (total, urban, an     url     ith reasnbl      ccessa to            structure of the popolation. nod 10n1 rimae trend.
ofe wae    su pply (includes8 teted surface w.atrs or untreated hot             Efoonoic deopndency ratio - Rtioti   of .pop1ltlon under 15 sod 65 and ovr to
_ncntuioc ted water ouch as that fr.. protected boreholes. springs,                  the labor force in age group of 15-6i yeano.
and sanitary wells) aspercen.tages of their respective population..
In n  u.rbn araapblic fo-toin or standyost located sit mare                      tINCOME DSTRIBUTION
ihe20   etr   free a house may be consmidered as being within tea-             Percentagte of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
ocoalo oceu  of  hathous.  Inrurl eras  eaunableaccss wuldpercet          icCheot 20percent, pooreet 20 Percen.t, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the hounewIfe or mobers of the household do not have to                   o  hose holds
spenda dioyroportiona.tc part of the day In fetching thu family's
wae  udo                                                                    POVtERTY TARGET GROUS
Acett rocrc  dlpoa , (vero    of   cuaion) - total, urban, and               Entimatod absolute povrty ioccn.e le-e1 (01$ pe,r capita) - urban end rural-
rual-1   Numbero   pepe(otal, urbo and- rural) nerved by eOOetIa                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a miatnal
disposal an ..parcetage   oftheirirespectivePpopulati6ns      E.. incrta             nutritionally adequate diet plus eanentia1 non-food requirements is not
diupou_   may Include thu collecrtioencd dispsl      .lth owithout                   affordable.
Icarn.of h.... e.creta end wate-waterby water-horse mystee                  tstimated relative poverty iocoma lo-t    (US$ Per capita) - urban and rural1
rthe any of pit privIes and simila    Installations.                               Relative poverty iocu.. leve    is that incoe    level less then one-third
Pouato   pe  phy,sIcian -Population dIvIded by ...nher of practicing             per capita personal inooma of the country.
plyniciarn qulified from a nedlce1 school or univertty level.                     totlmated populationtbI1 be ow covrtyIcm     ee     pret        urbanan   rural-
Popuutio  pernursng preon- i'opalrion divided by comber of                     Percent of Po PulatIon (urban and rural) who are eite"asle poor"o
pracilclo  cab  end  enl  grduate nur ses, pr.ctica1 nurses, and              'relative poor' whichever in greater.
t -nmic adlilPesDiv,Ision
Icnoic Analysis an.d ProJecItions Department



-      37 -                                                              ANNEX I
E0ON06Q0 DEVEI0P?ENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. Tlones)7
Av.
Actual                          Estimated           1960-    1965-      1973-           196~7-69 1974175 1977178
Av. 2.967-69   1923      1974/75     1976/177           1977/78-          1965     1970       1978                              __
NATILXAL _ ACCOUN.IS            En Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rates                 Average Antnual. Growth, Rates         As Percent of GTT
ro D onestir Productt            6,012     5,833      6,514       7,255               78347                      3.3        6198.5                 101.8     101.1
iso  rem e - lo   of' Trade {.)    89          -      -117         -148                 481                                                 1.5     -1.8     -1.1
Te,metic In2one               6,101     5,833      6,397       7,1.07              7,745             5.6       2.5       5.8           100.0     100.0    100.0
x.pz.rc (inc] . NFS)                  879        747       703          506                791            20.6       6.8       0.7            14.4      11.0     [0.2
...port,   '   (~import capacity)     _598       369        197          231512.3                                  -14.6 4  35-3.2              9.8       3.1      4.1
iceonroc Gap               281      ~~378      506          23764.6                                                                        7T  9
Consumption Fxspenditares            5,668     5,817      6,40,4      6,764               7,521             5.7       3.6       5.2            92.9    100.1      97.5
Investnent     '1 (inel. stocks)       714       394        499         660                 700            13.3      8.8       1.2.2           12.9      7.8       9.0
Domestic Savinigs                      433         16        -6          343                z24             4.3      10.0      72.0             6.8     -0.1       2.9
National Savings                       416         32        10          3 78               279             8.7      20.5      56.3             7,1       0.2      3.6
MERCIIAIJISE TRADE                              Annual Data at Current Prines                                                                  As Percent of Tota.l
Imports
Capital goods                         ..       100        135          227                318                       ..       22.9              ..     16.8      2355
Eniermediate goods9 (EDMfue15)        ..       176        386         270                 459              .         ..      21.9              ..     30.4     34.1'
O:)els and related ma.terials
0P' which:   Petroleua,                       23     ..155          141                 166              .        ,.      48,5               ..     10.0     l .i3
ConsOumntion goods                    ..       428        726         2l7                 406                               z2A42.8                             3. 1
Total~ Nerehb. Tmports (cif)         54Z7      727     1 ,402         865               1,349                                12.2                    100.0    100.0
Exports
O,iTar   prdcsLs1          ul)        .         45        19          220                 23.                        ..       7.0              .      40.9     40.8
-se1s and related materials
o5C whi-ch, Petroleum
mlanufactured goods                   ..       195        239         240                 294              ..        .         .5              .      59.1     59.2
Total Merch. Exports (fob)           48_1      345       3T58        76X0                 497                                 7.9                    1003.0    100.0
Touarism ~ai Sorde,r Transi
4c,rchandise Trade Indices                        Average 19 72-7 3    100
Export Price Index                    61       100       133          118                 137              .        ..        6.5
1:,ourn  Price Index                 52        100       215          189                 18SO                      .       12.5
N*.znc of Trade .mdcx               118        100        62           62                 786.                              -5.6
En-ports Volume Index                148       100        80          115                 107              .                  1.5
%ALJt ADDED BY SECTOR                 A,inual Data at 1972-73    prices and Exchange Rates               Av,erage Annual Growth Rates          A: Percent of Total
p.grtrulturc                      3,542      3,405     3,71.2       4,020              4,318               .        ..       4.8              59        59       57
Industryv sod   lininig             420        412       466          562                642               .         .       9.2               7         7        8
tordue                   ~~~~~~    ~~~2,050  1,848  2J146  234j42              2                  .645               7.4            _S4        34        35
6,01 2    5,663     6,324        7,044               7,605                                 6.1            100       100       100
As Percet-    s  -
FIJB IC: FINASJCE
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                    3 17       280       469          563                665               .        ..      34.2            5.3        7 .2     8.5
Current Expendlitures               365        364       41.9         464                553..                       .      16.8            6.1        6.4      7.1
Budgeta,ry S3avings                 -48        -84        50           99                112                                               -0.8        0.8      1.4
Otner Public Sector                    .        .                       ..                                  .       .
Puli  ector Investmsent         421        239       246          516                514               .                10.3            7.0        3.8      6.6
us    mIllion L
C.USPIEI  EXPENDOITJRE DETAILS--                           Actual                    Estimated      DETATI. ON4                            At Av.    1977/78   P and ER
As R. Total Current Expend.)                1969/70 1972/73 1974/75 1976/77         1977/76       PUBLIC SECTOR                         Two-Year PI-,     7. of Total
E~ducation                                    ..       15.5     14.5     12T          130         IflETMR       R0R                          (1978/79 - 1-979/8)
Other Social Services                         .         4.5      3.6      4.2          4.9        Social Sectors                                287         13.2
Agslculture    and                                                                                Agriculture                                   600         27.6
Other Econosuic Services                    .         5.0     12.5       6.6         7.0        Industry and Mining                           30          1.
A.iseioitra.to- and Defense                   .        70.4     57.1     61.5         61.2        Power                                         314        14.4
Other                                         .         4.6     12.3     15.5         15.9        Transport and commsunications                 387         17.8
Ttlcurrent Expenditures                           100.0     100.0    1005.0       100.0O       Other                                         206         9.5
Total Expenditures                          2,174       100.0
SELECTED TINDICATORS                                   1960-       1965-        1973-               FINANICING
(Calculaed from  -year averaged data)             1965        1970         1976
Average ICON                                              7         Th          0.69                    Public Sector Savings                     557         25.6
TIspsrt Elasticity                                        .        1.29         1.11                    Progress aid counterpart                  838         3786
mrginal Domestic Savings Hate                             .        0.22         0.05                    Foreigzn Project Aid                      65          2.
Marginal National Savings Eats                            G. .35                0.05                   other (inc. dos. borrowing)                174          8.0
Total Financing                         2,174       100.0
I.ABOR FORCE AlND                                   Total Labor Force                                     Value Added PerV.Workerf(1A972_. 73      Prices & Exse. Rates)
ouJTPUTT PER WORKEtR                 In Millions           %' Of Total          .1961-73            In U.S.lDollars       Perent oAventge              19 70 -73
19 60/61     197/719 60/61       1972/73    Growth Rate           19 69/70   19 72/73     19 69/70    19 72/73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                          16,1         20.5      85         78           2.0                ..          166          ..76
Industry                              1.0          1.8       5          7          5.0                 ..          229          ..105
Service                               1.8          3.9      10         15          6.7                 -.          484          --         222            -
Total                                18.9         26.2     L00        100           7.8               246          217        100          100          -4.9
not applicable          -enlleor negligible
not available          - - less than half the smaletui           shw
Notes   Figures are ono fiscal year basis (JulY 1-Ju         DatBO .st  prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile Eaat Pakistan.
/1-     Plan targets.



1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a Flr9                                        8S A A ;^ 8 
0 g | ° -9 i | 8 > S                                                                           A O a |>E  sWi



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1979)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                    and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                       Un-
Number  Year    Borrower           Purpose                 Bank     IDA   disbursed
One loan and eight credits fully disbursed                 54.9    329.1       -
339    1972    Bangladesh   Cyclone Area Reconstruc-
tion (replaces Credit
No. 228-PAK of 1971)                  25.0      2.5
340    1972    Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.0      1.0
341    1972    Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.0      1.9
343    1972    Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.3       .3
367    1973    Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply
(replaces Credit No.
42-PAK of 1963)                        7.0       .1
368    1973    Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply and
Sewerage (replaces
Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                 13.2       -
407    1973    Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.0      4.3
408     1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.0      5.6
409     1973   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance                     4.0        .1
410     1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                             7.5      5.1
424    1973    Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport
Rehabilitation                         8.7      1.1
487    1974    Bangladesh   Second Telecommunications               20.0     13.1
527    1975    Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                     33.0      7.2
533    1975    Bangladesh   Population                              15.0     11.7
542    1975    Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                      27.0     23.7



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
US$ Million
Amount
(net of cancellations
Loan or                                                    and exchange adjustments)
Credit                                                                       Un-
Number  Year    Borrower          Purpose                 Bank      IDA   disbursed
605    1976    Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                    22.0     14.9
621    1976    Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training         12.0     10.5
622    1976    Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                  7.5      6.0
631    1976    Bangladesh   Rural Development                       16.0     14.5
632    1976    Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                  25.0     14.4
676    1977    Bangladesh   Imports Program V                       75.0      2.8
724    1977    Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                       16.0     16.0
725    1977    Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                       21.0     19.9
729    1977    Bangladesh   Extension and Research                  10.0      9.9
735    1977    Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II                5.0      4.4
752    1977    Bangladesh   Imports Program VI                      75.0     20.4
765    1978    Bangladesh   Jute                                    21.0     19.4
787    1978    Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                    25.0     25.0
825    1978    Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II                  7.0      7.0
828    1978    Bangladesh   Agricultural Research                    6.0      6.0
864    1978    Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control              19.0     19.0 /a
866     1978   Bangladesh   Inports Program VII                     75.0     62.1
872     1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III                10.0     10.0
890    1979    Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                    6.0      6.0 /a
Total,                                                     54.9  1,023.3    365.9
of which has been repaid                                 0         0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                             54.9  1,022.9
Total undisbursed                                           0      365.9    365.9
/a   Not effective.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Multi-Sector Project
Cr. No. 339     Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:   US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by late 1979, about four years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System) have
been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads) have
been substantially completed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Tele-
communications and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily.
A request for an extension of the Closing Date is currently under consideration.
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340     Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is expected to be completed by late 1979, three years
behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor problems,
shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the embankment
as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase. While
problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical construc-
tion and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational and major
agricultural development has started.
Cr. No. 341     Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: September 28, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Nearly 3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality
problems have already been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construc-
tion and engine/pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. Agricultural
development for 2400 wells started in the winter .1978/1979. Project audit
for 1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed. A request
is currently under consideration for an extension of the closing date to permit
the financing of, inter alia, distribution channels in order to increase the
effectiveness of the project. Pending the outcome of this review, the Closing
Date has been initially extended to 9/28/79.
Cr. No. 410     Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers'
interest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway but are being delayed by shortages of local funds. Machinery
for seed processing has been ordered. Tender documents for the final list
of machinery and equipment are undergoing final revision after IDA comments.
Staff housing is about 80% complete. On the other hand, vacancies still exist
in the staff to supervise contract growers. With fifteen trainees presently
being trained, most of the planned overseas staff training programs are well
underway.
Cr. No. 542     Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make good progress and are expected
to be completed on schedule. The problems delaying procurement of 60 primary
and 2,500 secondary pumps have been resolved and it is expected that some 25
primary pumps will be installed during the current boro season. A target
area of 24,000 acres of irrigation for the present dry season using some
608 secondary pumps is to be attempted.
Cr. No. 605     Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress,
project civil works have again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka.
If adequate additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed
on schedule.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperation between the various ministries and
agencies involved; (ii) lack of effective organization and ineffective super-
vision of the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Devel-
opment Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system
(complex regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project
personnel; and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural
credit. In November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook
a comprehensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an
action program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government
in December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents. This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries are, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of increased farm inputs or farm
equipment. A proposal has recently been approved to amend the Credit Agree-
ment to finance incremental fertilizer needs for the project instead of
incremental credit for fertilizer.
Cr. No. 724     Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been
received and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing    Date:  June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729     Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services. Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of non-extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also
requested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No. 765     Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress is generally satisfactory. The project organiza-
tion appears to be succeeding in generating enthusiasm among farmers and Jute
Farmers Associations are becoming effective. The value of credit in cash and
kind has increased substantially, and repayments are progressing satisfactorily.
The project technological package is reported to be signficantly increasing per
acre yields.
Cr. No. 787     Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Effectiveness was delayed by almost three months due to delays in
Government approval of the project budget. However, work on site selection,



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
land acquisition, and preparation of tender documents has been proceeding
satisfactorily and physical progress of the project is not expected to be
effected by this delay.
Cr. No. 828     Agricultural Research Project;   US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed by two months, due to delays in approval
of the project budget. Meanwhile contracts with architects for design of
facilities have been signed, and technical working groups established respon-
sible for drawing up research programs in specific fields.
Cr. No. 864     Drainage and Flood Control Project:   US$19.0 million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 890     Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6 million of April 3, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527     Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
however, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.    Currently the project is about 32 months behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now in the construction phase. The soil compaction
work has been completed and work is progressing on the critical compensatory
foundation works of the Project. Revised estimates indicate that due to the
need for additional site work, the delays and the currency fluctuations, costs
will be substantially higher than lender funds currently available. Arrange-
ments are being discussed among the Government and the various cofinanciers
to raise the additional funds required to complete the Project. The fertilizer
company has terminated the contract of the consultants who had been providing
management assistance, and has hired a new firm to provide assistance during
the construction phase. A contract with a second firm for provision of
assistance during the operations phase was signed in May 1979.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 632     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1979, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$23.5 million from the credit, for 96 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$6.0 million and QAR had been approved for an additional US$8.4
million.
Cr. No. 676     Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of April 30, 1979, disbursements were US$72.2 million and QAR
had been approved for an additional US$1.4 million. The credits Closing Date
has been extended by three months to enable GOB to process reimbursements
from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 752     Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date:   January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of April 30, 1979 disbursements were US$43.3 million and QAR
had been approved for an additional US$23.6 million.
Cr. No. 825     Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983
Progress has started in training commercial bank staff, distributing
circulars to commercial bank branches describing project procedures, and adver-
tising the availability of funds for small industry loans. Staff of the Small
and Cottage Industries Corporation have been assigned to begin preparation of
subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.
Cr. No. 866     Seventh Imports Program:   US$75.0 million Credit of
December 22,; 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407     Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 75% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities and staff housing are now virtually completed. About half of
the hostels will be completed in December 1979 and the remainder by June



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
1980. The auditorium, gymnasium and stadium are scheduled to be completed
by October 1979, two months before the Closing Date. A number of new pro-
grams intended to improve the practical skills of students and increase
their involvement in research and extension have been introduced. Civil Works
for The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind schedule are
practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% complete because
of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate. Efforts to
revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being made.
However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at Joydeppur
intended to be used for the training of technical teachers. (Construction
of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 621     Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule but has slowed recently due to shortage of local funds. Completion is
about 60% on weighted average. Tenders for instructional equipment were
invited in mid-December. Training of teachers for the Agricultural Train-
ing Institutes (ATI's) has been set back by a recent transfer of instructors
to the extension staff to benefit from a recent upgrading of positions, which
was not extended to the ATI staff. Little progress has been made on the
recruitment of technical assistance experts, the development of revised
curriculum, or the in-service training of extension staff.
Population
Cr. No. 533     Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit., Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen the
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408     Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
There are two major elements of the project which are not yet com-
pleted, these being construction of the new Roads and Highways Directorate
(RHD) headquarters building and paving of the Feni bypass. Progress on the
RHD building is satisfactory, and appropriate steps are being taken to
remedy constructional deficiencies previously noted. Progress on the Feni
bypass paving has improved, and the contractor should complete before the
closing date of the Credit on December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance. There appears to have been a significant improvement in the
oil transfer operating over the past few months.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels
have already been prepared and most items agreed. The selection of con-
sultants required for the execution of the project has proceeded very slowly.
However, contracts with two consulting firms have now been signed, and work on
selection of additional required consultants is underway.



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343     Telecommunications Project;   US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
commissioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned during June 1979, completing the project four years behind
schedule. The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to
June 30, 1979.
Cr. No. 487     Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
However a new ordinance covering the T&T Board has recently been issued and
preparation of revised rules and regulations for the Board is underway. A
request for extension of the Closing Date is currently under consideration.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622     Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Credit funds were almost fully committed. However, failure of the
Government and consultants to reach agreement on the staffing of a planning
assistance project resulted in the release of about US$1.0 million of addi-
tional funds for commitment. These funds have now been committed for
additional subprojects.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 872     Third Technical Assistance Project:   US$10.0 million; Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
About US$2.1 million has been committed for three technical
assistance subprojects.



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare credit
Ten months from presentation of proposal 1/
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA:
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
September 1978.
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
October 1978.
(e) Departure of appraisal Mission:
March 1979.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
June 1, 1979.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
60 days after signature.
Section II:        Special IDA Implementation Actions
IDA is assisting the Government in the preparation of a
medium term Agricultural Production Plan (paragraph 52).
1/   Credit preparation benefited from fertilizer sector work performed
over several years, starting with a fertilizer marketing and distribution
study financed in July 1975 under the First Technical Assistance Credit
(409-BD).



- 52 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Assistance to the Government in coordination of aid
for any fertilizer program will be provided through the
Bangladesh Aid Group and local coordination meetings in
Dacca (paragraph 89).
Section III:       Special Conditions
(a) The Government and IDA would consult with each
other on domestic fertilizer pricing to ensure
continued progress in reducing the total cost
of the subsidy (paragraph 82);
(b) Foodgrain procurement prices would be set at levels
designed to provide adequate production incentives
to farmers (paragraph 83);
(c) A separate account would be maintained for the
fertilizer subsidy (paragraph 84);
(d) A fertilizer coordinating committee would be
established, with a technical secretariat, and
the Government would provide IDA annually for
comment its draft program for fertilizer supply
and distribution (paragraph 85);
(e) The Government would prepare a plan for discussion
with IDA for debottlenecking investments and other
measures to improve the productivity of its fer-
tilizer manufacturing plants (paragraph 87);
(f) Competitive bidding would be used for awarding
contracts to private fertilizer carriers (para-
graph 88);
(g) All necessary action would be taken, including
utilization of Bangladesh foreign exchange if
necessary, to ensure availability of sufficient
fertilizer to meet an agreed FY80 consumption
target (paragraph 89);
(h) Taka funds equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from
Credit proceeds will be deposited in an account be-
ing maintained in the Bangladesh Bank and would be
utilized for financing of development expenditures
(paragraph 94);
(i) Special conditions of effectiveness would be:



- 53 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
i)  signature of acceptable contract with consultants
assisting in improving BADC financial management
and accounting (paragraph 92);
ii)  enactment of increases in the domestic fertilizer
price (paragraph 82); and
.i)  completion of staffing plan and administrative
authorizations for provision of sufficient staff
for secretariat serving the fertilizer coordinat-
ing committee (paragraph 85).



- 54 -
ANNEX IV
TABLE AND CHARTS
Table 1 - Fertilizer Offtake 1965-79
Table 2  -  Fertilizer Imports
Table 3  - Fertilizer Production
Table 4  -  Distribution and Availability of Fertilizer in FY79
Table 5  - Estimated Distribution and Availability of Fertilizer
in FY80
Table 6  - Average Fertilizer Application Rates by Crop
Table 7  - Average Crop Yields per Acre by Level of Fertilization
Table 8  -  Status of Fertilizer Usage in 1976/77



ANNEX
- 55 -ble
TOTAL FERTILIZER OFFTAKE IN BANGLADESH, FISCAL YEARS, 1965-79
'000 L. Tons
of Product
900
800                                                                            800.0
70 C
600
512.6        I :
50C 0 
Chne|-3.405.0332          e     2 0  t     1    38373 10   234  +35   11   +93   19
Source:0BADC4Wodd Bank-20206
300
Chne232020            3.   67  +30   +98   1.   5.    10   2.    6.   1.   +3. - ±11.9-
Scjrc: BAD                                                             Wori Bank-2020



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2
Bangladesh
Fertilizer Imports
Year                             1,000 Tons
1972/73                              185
1973/74                              141
1974/75                              289
1975/76                              348
1976/77                               37
1977/78                              387
1978/79 (estimated)                  640



FERTILIZER PRODUCTION
FY77                               FY78                      FY79(est.)                FY80 Projected
Design                 Operating                     Operating                    Operating                     Operating
Capacity  Production   Rate as % of     Production   Rate as % of     Production   Rate as % of     Production Rate as % of
Plant      Product   (mt/yr)   (mt/yr)    Design Capacity    (mt/yr)    Design Capacity    (mt/yr)    Design Capacity    (mt/yr)   Design Capacity
Fenchuganj Urea     107,000     77,000         72%
71,000           60%           50,000         42%           85,000          72%
AS        11,000      9,000         82%
Ghorasal   Urea      335,000   208,000         62%          151,000          45%           225,000         67%         235,000          70%
Chittagong
No. 1     TSP        32,000                    0%
38,000           25%           55,000          36%          70,000          46%
No. 2     TSP      120,000    46,000          38%
lU
Total              605,000    340,000         56%         260,000           43%          330,000          55%         390,000          64%



- 58 -
ANNEX IV
Table 4
BANGLADESH
Fertilizer Import Credit
Distribution and Availability of Fertilizer in FY79
(1000 tons)
Urea         TSP/DAP        MP         Total
A.  Opening Stock (July 1, 1978)     68           73           14         155
B.  Domestic Procurement            274           54                      328
C. Imports
Saudi Grant                     68                                     68
Saudi Addl. Grant               52.2                    1/             52.2
USAID Grant                      92.5         83.7(DAP)-              176.2
CIDA Grants                                                92.4        92.4
Netherlands Grant                68.8         10.5                     79.3
U.K. Commodity Asst.                          26.5                     26.5
NORAD Grant                      14.7         15                       29.7
NORAD (NKR 15M)                               11                       11
Danish Grant                                  13.8                     13.8
SIDA Grant                        6.6                                   6.6
Japanese Grant                   33                                    33
5th Yen Credit                                19                       19
Australian Asst.                               1.5                      1.5
Belgian Credit                                10.5                     10.5
Cash                             20                         _          20
Total Imports                355.8         191.5         92.4       639.7
D.  Distribution                    495          235           70          800
E.  Estimated Closing Stock         202.8         83.5         36.4        322.7
F.  Stock Requirement - 5 Mos.      237          112           35         384
G.  Shortfall (excess)               34.2         28.5         (1.4)       61.3
1/ Equivalent in nutrient content to 83,000 tons of TSP and 32,000 tons of Urea;
no credit is taken in this table for the Urea equivalent.
May 30, 1979



- 59 -
ANNEX IV
Table 5
BANGLADESH
Fertilizer Import Credit
Requirement/Availability of Fertilizer in FY80
For an Offtake of 1,000,000 tons
(1000 tons)
Urea        TSP/DAP       MP            Total
A.  Opening Stock (July 1, 1979)    203          84          36             323
B.  Domestic Procurement            320          70          --             390
C. Imports
Saudi grant                     81                  1/                  81
USAID grant                                 140(DAP)-                  140
FRG Grant                        15          15                         30
CIDA                                                     59             59
IDA ($6.6M)2/                   13           22                         35
IDA ($25M) -/                   90           30                        120
EEC ($25M) -                    110                                    110
Netherlands                      20          60                          80
DANIDA                                       15                         15
Bulgaria (barter)                14                                     14
OPEC                             24                                      24
Total Imports                427          282          59            708
D.  Distribution                    600         300         100           1,000
E.  Estimated Closing Stock         290         136          (5)           421
F.  Stock Requirement - 5 Mos.      290         145          50             485
G.  Shortfall                        -            9          55              64
1/ Equivalent in nutrient content to 140,000 tons of TSP and 55,000 tons of urea;
the urea equivalent has not been added to this table.
2/ Urea/TSP at $210/ton c.i.f.
3/ Amount indicated by GOB out of $45M EEC Special Action Credit.
May 30, 1979



-60-                             ANNEX IV
- 60 -                    ~~~~~~Table 6
BANGLADESH
Fertilizer Import Project
Average Fertilizer Application Rates by Crops
(Seers per Cultivated Acre)
High Yielding
Varieties        Local Varieties
Wus      Fe rtiliz_. r         138               15
Yield                  i8               13
Aman     Fertilizer             165              34
Yield                  44               19
Boro     Fertilizer             174               8
Yield                  26               22
Jute     Fertilizer             57               22
Yield                  21               1S
Wheat    Fertilizer            115               N i
Yield                  23               NA
Source: USAlD/Bangladesh, 1978 Cost cf Production Surveys
March 16, 1979



ANNEX IV
-61 -                             Table 7
BANGLADESH
Fertilizer Import Project
Average Crop Yields Per Acre by Level of Fertilization
Fertilizer Use Group-        No
1/              2~~~LoL/  Friie
Crop     Item         Unit       high/    Iedium      Low-      Fertilizer
Aus      Fertilizer   Mfaund5    3.9         2.5        0.9
Yield       ',.aunds   47.6        3 1. 8      16. 8       15. 2
IY/F                    8.3         6.6        1.8          -
Aman     Fertilizer   .sfunds    4. 9        2.3        0. 8
Yield        :'!aunds  5n.4        23.3        16.5        19.7
IY/F                    6.3         1.6       (4.0)
Boro     Fertilizer  Maunds      6. o       2.9         7.I 
Yield        Maunds    44. 5       44. 9      38.6        22. 2
IY/F                    3.7         7.8        7.8          -
Jute     Fertilizer  Maunds      2.1        1.5         1.0 
Yield        Maunds    20.7        21.3       20.1        13.8
IY/F                    3.3         5.0        6.3
Wheat    Fertilizer  Maunds      4.9        3.6         1. 9
Yield       MViaunds   34.2       f26.4       26.8        25.1
IY/F                    1.9         0.4        0.9
I/ The 1/3 of farmeor.3 i sing fertilizer who had the highest application rates
per acre. Groupini:; wverc rnadc for each Crop. Fertilizer usage
includes Urea, TSP, and Muriate of Potash.
2/ Thc 1/3 farmers ! 'inc fertilizer who had thc- lowest application rates.
NOTE: One Maund equals 40 seers equals 82.2 pounds.
IY /F kcqu.ils thy hichc r yicld ovcr thc 110 fcrtilizer use yield
dividcL-d by thc- fertiliz. r Iist'd in the applicabbh catciory.
Sourcc   USA1D/Ban. ladkush, 1978 Cost of Production Survey.
March 16, 1979



BANGLADESH - FERTILIZER IMPORT PROJECT
Status of Fertilizer Usage in 1976/77
A C R E A G E                     Fertilizer Usage
Total      W/Fertilizer  UA of Total     Lbs/Acre      Total (Tons)
1. RicrC HYV                 3; 285,000  3,285,000       100             200          298,636
?. Whlcat HYV                  288,000     288,000       100             i2O          15,709
3. Rice Local               21,662,000 - 6,498,600        30              35          103,386
*. Wihcat Local                107,000       53,00C       50              tO             964
5. Jut.. Traditional         1,102,000     551,000        50              z0           5,009
6. Jut... (Intensive PrOgramri)  500, 000   500,000      100              80          18,181
7. Lugarcane                   357,000      178,50G       50             100           8,110
o. CilSi*ds                    £66,0O0     166,500        25             100           7,136
9. Putale                      237,000     zo0,000        85             400          36,363
10. Tca cc o                    110,000       55,000       50             1(10          2,500
11. VLu ;tatA.m                 310,000     155,000        50              90           3,522
12. C,th,lrb (Iruits, pulses,  1, 5-J3,000   575, 0O0      37              50          13,070
t,.-A, CAttUii, LOndirnents)
1. Io ta!                   30,167,000   12,505,100       41              90         512,586
SourcL: t. Total dLcrQagc - Bureau of Statistics
B. Acreage with F%rtilizers and - Estimated by M. L. Rahlman, US...tD Dacca oil tll. basis of
pcr acre isagt;:               field visit and survey on crops' cr;stq v.naly;is
C. Total fertilizers used in 1976-77 - Be!DC
One ton  2200 lbs.
March 16, 1979
02 H
cD1



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
The Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation (BADC)
General
1.        BADC was established in 1962 as the East Pakistan Agricultural
Development Corporation. It is a semi-autonomous agency of the Ministry of
Agriculture, operating on a no-profit no-loss basis, and its net annual
budget ($119 million in FY77) represents some 70% of the ministerial budget.
Operating expenses are financed by overhead charges on sales and services
whilst capital expenditures are supported by the national budget. BADC
has over 18,000 permanent employees and controls over 50,000 seasonally
employed pump operators. It is responsible for the procurement (from
domestic and foreign sources), marketing, storage and distribution of all
physical inputs to the agricultural sector, with the Fertilizer Marketing
and Distribution Scheme forming the major part of its activities.
2.        BADC is a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common
seal with powers subject to the provisions in the ordinance under which it
was created. There is no limit on its borrowing, but prior sanction of the
Government is required. BADC has no cash reserves as it operates on a no-
profit no-loss basis.
The Fertilizer Marketing and Distribution Scheme
3.        Fertilizers are provided under this scheme to the entire agricul-
tural sector except the tea growers who are supplied directly with ammonium
sulphate by the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC). BADC
purchases domestically produced fertilizer from BCIC at prices determined by
the Government. BCIC extends no credit facility and payment must be made at
the time of each consignment's delivery. The Ministry of Agriculture sets
the distribution target and any short-fall is imported, generally with ex-
ternal aid. BADC is required to obtain import licenses and the approval of
the Bank of Bangladesh to release foreign exchange. For cash imports, letters
of credit are opened through commercial banks and payment is required for
the release of shipping documents when the consignment arrives in Bangladesh.
Where fertilizer is financed through aid, no letters of credit are necessary,
but BADC is required to surrender to the Government the Taka equivalent of
the invoice value of each consignment.
4.        BADC sells fertilizer for cash to private retail dealers at prices
equal to the official retail prices net of commission. These prices are
determined by the Government, taking into account expected sales, production



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
incentives to farmers and the availale funds for subsidies. The subsidy
on sales is recovered from the Government at the end of each quarter, prior
to which finance is met from overdrafts. Subsidy payments are met from
the Ministry of Agriculture Development budget, against provisions made in
BADC Annual Development Program (ADP).
5.        Separate set of books and bank accounts are maintained for the
fertilizer distribution scheme, from which the scheme accounts are prepared.
Accounts relating to all schemes managed by BADC are consolidated to arrive
at the annual accounts of BADC. Scheme accounts are also prepared on a
quarterly basis and submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture for reimburse-
ment of the fertilizer subsidy. It is a requirement that the annual accounts
of all schemes managed by BADC as well as the consolidated accounts are
audited by two firms of private auditors, who should be Chartered Accountants.
Although no store records are kept in monetary terms, physical records of
receipts, issues and stores are complete and timely. At the end of each year
stores in hand are supposed to be verified and reports made on any shortages
accruing. However, this physical verification of stocks is not being carried
out adequately. Improved verification systems are to be developed by the
consultants referred to in paragraph 92 of the main report.
6.        BADC owns very little transport equipment and the task of collecting,
clearing and moving fertilizer from domestic factories and ports to transit
and district warehouses and thereafter to thana warehouses is entrusted to
private clearing and forwarding agents, other Governmental corporations
(Bangladesh Inland Water Corporation and Bangladesh Railway Corporation) and
private transport contractors. Moving fertilizer from transit and district
warehouses to thana warehouses is undertaken on the basis of monthly pre-
planned programs, of which both consignor and consignee warehouses are kept
informed. BADC operates all warehouses at the port, transit and wholesale
levels of distribution as well as most thana warehouses:     these warehouses
are both owned and rented by BADC. On average BADC carries two to three
months' stock which is financed by overdraft facilities obtained from
commercial banks.
Organization of BADC
7.        The Board of Directors of BADC consists of the Chairman and six
Member Directors, two of whom are non-executive. The Chairman and remaining
four Member Directors are therefore operating executives as well as Govern-
ment representatives. They each have responsibility for one of the five
Wings of the Corporation:   the Chairman for Administration, and the others
for Finance, Supply, Irrigation and Field (see Chart 1).
8.        The Administration Wing is under the direction of the Chairman and
comprises 12 divisions (see Chart 2): one is that of Planning, which is
responsible for planning, obtaining approval and finance for BADC schemes;
it also reviews future fertilizer availability against the sales targets,
aiming to avoid possible shortfalls. The Implementation Division provides



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 3
the government with a monitoring service for all BADC operations and regu-
larly gathers information concerning receipts and expenditures, which is
then compiled into reports to be presented to the Government. Advertising
tender requests has been the main activity of the Public Relations Division,
whose other functions include promotional advertising, press releases, and
radio broadcasts. The Corporation also has a small Training Institute, offer-
ing mainly introductory level courses, available to members of all schemes
operated by BADC. Each of the four Regional Offices (one for each Division-
of the Country) is headed by a Regional Manager, whose role is that of
coordinating activities and providing data. The remaining Divisions in the
Administrative Wing are law, medical care, secretariat, establishment, com-
mon service, O&M and coordination.
9.        The Finance Wing comprises three divisions:     Audit, Finance and
Accounts. The Finance Division oversees the expenditures of BADC operations
and works in liaison with the Planning Division to prepare reports for the
Government.
10.       The Purchase Division, and Movement, Sales and Storage Division
(M.S.&S.) are the two main bodies of the Supply Wing. The Purchase Division's
major role regarding fertilizer is to work and liaise firstly with M.S. &
S. Division to coordinate the scheduling of fertilizer requirements, and
secondly, with the Planning and Finance Divisions concerning the size and
availability of funds.
11.       The M.S. & S. Division (see Chart 3) assumes entire responsibility
for the distribution of fertilizer. Final authority for most decisions re-
sides with the General Manager, Supply. The Manager of the Movements Division
is responsible for the onward movement of goods to their respective destina-
tions and he is assisted by three Deputy Managers, the Shipping Manager and
the District Managers. The Sales Manager supervises the establishment and
attainment of District sales targets and stock requests from District Managers.
The Storage Manager assumes the responsibilities for repair and maintenance
of BADC-owned godowns, data concerning storage space, and information of every
godown, owned or hired, that is used for fertilizer.
12.       Key positions in M.S. and S. headquarters include Deputy Manager
Administration, Senior Finance and Accounts Officer, and Deputy Manager Plan-
ning and Statistics, each reporting to the General Manager. Outside head-
quarters, M.S.&S. operates on a District level supervising the movement,
storage and disbursement of fertilizer. These activities are administered
by the District and Sub-Divisional managers. Thana Inspectors and Store-
keepers provide the final link to the dealers.



Chatt 1: Composition of the Board of Directors of BADC
Chairman
Executive                 Directors
Member           iember                  Member         Member
Administration      Director         Director                Direct-or       Director       Non-executive
Wing
Finance         Supply                   Irrigation     Field           Directors
Wing            Wing                     Wing           Wing
rtX



CHART 2: ORGANISAITON STRUCTURE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WING OF BADC
Chairman
Secretary
Planning            -        Training            Law         Secretariat       Common            Coordination
Division                      Institute          Unit                          Services            Division
Public                 Implementation            Regional       Medical         Establishment       Organisation
Relations              Division                  Offices        Centre          Division            & Management
Division                                                                                            Division
x5 1
rt X
" C1



Chart 3. 0r   nisntion Structurf of the Movement, Sales and Storage Division
General Hanager (Supply)
r       s     ~       ~                I                                     I -- '                               I
Senior                    Manager              Manager              Manager                               M _ -  _ _   _ anager
Deputy    Finance &       Deputy     Storage              Sales                Movement    -                        Shipping
Manager   Accounts        Manager                                                                    -              (Chittagong)
Aeminist- Officcr         Planning
ration                    b stat-                                                                                          -        Deputy     Distriit
istics                                                                                                    Manager  MNli.gvrs (21)
Movement
Deputy               Deputy
Manager              Manager
Sub-D)ivisionat
r                     1                                                                      Mainagers
Deputy               Deputy     Deputy               Deputy
Manager              Manager    Manager              Manager
Movement             Shipping   H.Q.                 Movement00
Movement              (Ghorasal)                     Intermed-            Thana
iary Store-          Inspect-
keepers (96)         ors
(460)
|Movem ent Officers (3)                                            I
Clerk/
Narayang- Chittagong      Fenchuganj                            Store-
anj        TSP Complex                                          keepers
(500)
( sno)
D
Xe



