CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 944 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Fertilizer Imports)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 29, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 944 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1979, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BADC" means the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation, a corporation established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower, or any successor thereto; and
(b) "Taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable cost of
imported fertilizer for 100% of expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in the currency of any
country other than the Borrower; provided that, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of (i) payments made for expenditures


﻿- 2 -
prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on such
fertilizer or on the importation, procurement or supply thereof,
and provided further that if the Association shall have reasonably
determined that the procurement of any fertilizer is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such fertilizer shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Project consists of the provision of foreign
exchange for the import, into the Borrower's territory, of fer-
tilizer to be used for increasing the Borrower's agricultural
production.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the fertilizer required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1989, and ending
February 15, 2029, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-3-
Section 2.09. The authorized representatives of BADC are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out through BADC, with due diligence and
efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from BADC issue, or cause to be issued, such
import licenses as shall be required to carry
out the Project; and
(ii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of the fertilizer
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported
fertilizer to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be
insured, or cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance
thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace such fertilizer.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and of the fertilizer supply and distribution program
referred to in Section 3.09 (c) of this Agreement (including the
cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom), and to identify
the fertilizer financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the fertilizer financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿-4-
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the fertilizer
financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in
takas equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, in an account
currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts
are to be described in accordance with standard practice, as the
proceeds from "IDA Credit No.               BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's
development programs.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. In order to assist BADC in strengthening
its financial management and accounting capabilities, the Borrower
shall employ, or cause BADC to employ, financial consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
at the request of either party, but at least once a year, consult


﻿-5-
and review with each other the effect of price movements of
fertilizer with a view to ensuring continued progress in reducing
the total cost of the fertilizer subsidy.
(b) The Borrower shall review foodgrain procurement prices
periodically, and in any event at the time of any increase in
fertilizer prices, and shall set such foodgrain prices at levels
which will provide adequate production incentives to farmers.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a separate
account for any fertilizer subsidies and shall take all steps
required to ensure that changes in the amount of fertilizer
subsidies from the budget allocation would not affect adversely
the allocation for other expenditures under the Ministry of
Agriculture's development budget.
(b) The Borrower shall examine the advantages and disadvan-
tages of alternative methods for budgeting of and accounting for
any fertilizer subsidy and shall inform the Association by Jan-
uary 1, 1980, of the results of this examination.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a policy-level
fertilizer coordinating committee, including representatives
of the Ministries involved with the fertilizer sector, in order
to coordinate policies relating to fertilizer including, inter
alia, (i) fertilizer production, availability and import require-
ments, (ii) pricing policy, (iii) marketing and distribution
policy, (iv) transportation, storage and related facilities, and
(v) financing policies including preparation of the fertilizer
budget.
(b) The Borrower shall by January 1, 1980, cause the commit-
tee to be assisted by a secretariat staffed with sufficient
professional personnel having expertise in the fields mentioned in
Section 3.09 (a) so as to enable the committee effectively to
carry out its responsibilities.
(c) The Borrower shall prepare annually its program for
fertilizer supply and distribution and send a draft of such
program to the Association in sufficient time to permit the
Association to comment thereon.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower's contracts for private sector
shipment of fertilizer by road or inland water transport shall


﻿-6-
continue to be awarded by competitive bidding, taking account of
contractors' qualifications and past performance and of the need
on occasion to utilize more expeditious procedures to meet unex-
pected requirements.
(b) The Borrower shall by January 1, 1980, complete a
review of its procedures for contracting with road and inland
water transport fertilizer carriers, including the adequacy of
penalties for poor performance, and of carrier prequalification
standards and the possibilities of incentives for better than
expected performance, and shall inform the Association of the
results of such review.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1979, forward to the Association for review and comment a plan
setting forth a program of investments to remove production
bottlenecks and of other measures to increase the productivity of
its fertilizer manufacturing plants.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take all necessary action,
including the utilization of its own foreign exchange to the
extent that sufficient external financing is not available, to
ensure availability of sufficient fertilizer in Bangladesh at the
appropriate seasons to support a fertilizer consumption target for
FY80 of one million tons, or such alternative target as may be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association during FY80 in
light of weather or other extraneous events, and to end the fiscal
year with adequate stocks to support the projected offtake for the
first five months of FY81.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the consultants referred to in Section 3.06 of this
Agreement shall have been employed;
(b) domestic fertilizer prices shall have been increased
by an average of about 28% over the rates applicable on June 1,
1979; and


﻿-7-
(c)  staffing plan and administrative authorizations for the
provision of sufficient staff to enable the secretariat referred
to in Section 3.09 (b) to carry out its responsibilities shall
have been completed.
Section 4.02. The date August 29, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.06, 3.07, 3.08 (a), 3.09 and 3.10 (a) of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date five years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAHISAMPAD
Dacca


﻿-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Is/ Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Robert Picciotto
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Fertilizer shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   In addition to the requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the
Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to the Asso-
ciation as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the fertilizer in question.
The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any fertilizer remains to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Aay further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in


﻿- 10 -
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order increasing the quantity under such
contract (except in cases of extreme urgency) which would increase
the cost of the contract by more than 20% of the original price,
the Borrower shall inform the Association of the proposed modifi-
cation, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.


