Report No. PID7635
Project name                     Lesotho and South Africa (@+) ...
Maloti-Drakensberg Transfrontier Conservation
and Development Area Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID numbers               LSGE52367
ZAGE52368
Borrower(s)                      GEF Grant to Lesotho and South Africa
Implementing agencies            (i) Ministry of Environment,
Gender and Youth Affairs
P.O. Box 10993 Maseru, Lesotho 100
Tel:(266) 311767   Fax:(266) 310506
Email natenv@lesoff.co.za
(ii) KwaZulu-Natal Nature Conservation
Service,
P.O. Box 13053 Cascades 3202,
KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
Tel: (0331) 845 1999.   Fax: (0331) 845 1699
Environment Category             B
Appraisal Date                   January 2000
Projected Board Date             May 2000
Date PID Prepared                April 4, 2000
Country and Sector Background: Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa have
both ratified the Biodiversity Convention, and approached the World Bank as an
implementing agency for the GEF in order to design this project in a
collaborative manner. Conservation of the Maloti-Drakensberg area is a top
priority from a national perspective, as it harbors a unique and rich set of
species, while coming under increasing threat of overgrazing, alien invading
species and human habitat encroachment. At the same time, this biodiversity
asset represent a great potential for income-generation through ecotourism.
Project objectives: To contribute to community development through income
generation from ecotourism, by capacity building for sustainable utilization
of the natural and cultural heritage of the project area. The GEF objective
is to conserve globally significant biodiversity.
Project description: (i) Biodiversity inventory, protected area
identification, securing international recognition for World Heritage Sites,
Ramsar sites and Biosphere Reserves; (ii) Integrated landuse and PA management
planning; restoration of degraded areas, capacity building; and (iii)
Ecotourism development: planning, capacity building.
Project financing: GEF is requested to contribute $15.25 million towards
activities in Lesotho and South Africa, aiming at enhancing conservation for
global benefit. Lesotho is expected to contribute $1.1 million and RSA $16.8



million.
Project implementation: In Lesotho, the project will be implemented by the
Ministry of Environment, Gender and Youth Affairs, in collaboration with the
Ministry of Agriculture. In South Africa, the KwaZulu-Natal Nature
Conservation Service will be the lead implementing agency, in collaboration
with South African National Parks and the Department of Environmental Affairs
& Tourism in the Eastern Cape and the Free State Provinces. A bilateral
Steering Committee and domestic Project Coordination Committees will oversee
the implementation managed by two Project Coordination Units.
Project sustainability: The project will allow investment that will generate
financial returns that can sustainably support future conservation activities:
Enhancing accessibility, building capacity in management and marketing of a
regional ecotourism destination, will stimulate the flow of visitors with
associated spending.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector: This is the second
biodiversity conservation project undertaken on South African soil. The
first, on the Cape Peninsula, has a promising record of implementation. In
particular, the development of emerging contractors from previously
disadvantaged areas - an approach that can also be tried in this project. In
Lesotho, the ongoing EU-funded program for conservation in the Maloti
Mountains, has shown the difficulties in engaging local communities. Hence,
considerable effort and time will be allocated to community dialogue and
participation in the preparation and implementation of the project.
Poverty category: While the project is to a large extent driven by GEF's
considerations of capturing global environmental benefits, it will result in
substantial job creation, some of which will allow unskilled labor to find
gainful employment.
Environmental aspects: The project is designed specifically to enhance the
environment, and is in Category B. There will be no involuntary resettlement
as a result of the project.
Program objective categories: Environmental conservation, ecotourism
development with community involvement.
Contact points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Jan P. Bojo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-4429
Fax:        (202) 473-8185
-2 -



Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 14, 2000.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



