Report No. PID10333
Project Name                     Benin-PERAC
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Non-Sector Specific
Project ID                       BJPE61577
Borrower(s)                      MINISTRY OF FINANCE OF BENIN
Environment Category              C
Date PID Prepared                May 14, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         September 25, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 22, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Benin has a population of 5.8 million, one fourth of which lives along the
coast, where the density reaches 340 per square kilometer, one of the
highest densities in Africa. The rate of population growth averages at
around 3 percent per year, and half of the population is under 15. Benin's
per capita income is US$380. Over one third of the population lives in
poverty with inadequate food supply and little access to medical care,
education and other social services. Life expectancy is only 53 years;
almost 30 percent of the population have no access to safe water; and less
than half of the male population and less than a quarter of the female
population can read and write. According to the interim PRSP, prepared in
May 2000 by the Government, poverty still affects about 35 percent of the
population. It is estimated that HIV/ AIDS has infected about 4 percent
of the adult population, and without an extraordinary effort, the epidemic
is likely to turn exponential and have a devastating impact on the
country's development.Nearly 60 percent of the population live in rural
areas and derive their subsistence from agriculture and the cultivation of
cotton. Agriculture accounts for 40 percent of GDP, employs 70 percent of
the active population and contributes 90 percent of export earnings and 15
percent of Government revenues. The main manufacturing activities are
agro-business, textiles, and construction. Services contribute about 45
percent of GDP, including a large trading sector due to Benin's role as a
trade corridor for landlocked WAEMU countries and as a link to
Nigeria.Economic performance over the last decade has been commendable.
Real GDP growth picked up above 4 percent in the early 1990s, and
increased to above 5 percent after the CFA franc devaluation in 1994.
Benin's external position also markedly improved despite wide variations
in the terms of trade. The trade deficit narrowed from 8.7 percent of GDP
in 1990 to 6.2 percent in1994 at the time of the devaluation before
widening again to close to 10 percent in 1999. Substantial levels of
foreign financial assistance combined with generous debt relief
strengthened the external position allowing the Government to remain
current on its non-reschedulable debt obligations, to clear all external
arrears, and to contribute to increasing the net foreign assets of the
Central Bank of Western African States.Fiscal consolidation has been a
major achievement as well. During the period 1989-98, Government revenue
rose from 9.4 to 15.5 percent of GDP. This resulted from a variety of
factors. Tax administration improved, the tax base was broadened, and the
tariff regime was simplified. A special unit in charge of large taxpayers



was created and, most importantly, a value-added tax with a single rate of
18 percent was introduced. At the same time expenditures, as a share of
GDP, shrank from 20 percent to 16.6 percent on account mainly of a
reduction in the size of the civil service and limited salary increases
especially after the 1994 devaluation. The overall deficit was reduced
from 10.7 percent in 1989 to 1.3 percent of GDP in 1998; foreign financing
has exceeded immediate financing needs, resulting in a rise in the net
position of the Government vis-a-vis the banking system, which has changed
from negative to positive. Except for the immediate aftermath of the 1994
CFA devaluation, inflation has remained low.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit are: (i)
to increase the impact of Government expenditures on economic and social
development and poverty alleviation; (ii) to improve governance by
providing a transparent system of budgeting that links budget allocations
to program objectives and sector strategies; (iii) to strengthen the
Government administrative capacity to manage public expenditures
efficiently; and (iv) to establish a fiduciary framework enabling, in
part, foreign financial assistance to be provided through an agreed
budgetary strategic framework and national expenditure procedures.The
Credit is based on a set of institutional reforms and capacity building
directed at reaching these objectives:(i) reforming the budget preparation
system through the use of performance budgeting, with the goal of
improving the strategic allocation of resources to alleviate poverty; (ii)
strengthening the administrative/institutional capacity for budget
execution and reporting; (iii) establishing a fiduciary framework
including internationally recognized methods for procurement, financial
management, and auditing of budget execution; and (iv) using monitoring
and evaluation techniques to better evaluate and report on the outcomes
of public expenditures.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
This Credit accompanies a Government program aimed at strengthening budget
performance, in order to make the budget a valuable instrument to
implement the PRSP under preparation.Institution building: The Bank will
continue the process started with the preparation of this operation. It
will help building institutional capacity to deal with public expenditures
management issues in general by helping design appropriate sector
strategies and key sector indicators to evaluate the efficiency of public
expenditure. The Government has recognized the need for wide-ranging
institutional building, in order to acquire the capacity to formulate
sector strategies and budget programs consistent with these strategies,
the capacity to design performance indicators, monitor them, and evaluate
the outcome of the programs, and the capacity to carry-out ex-post
auditing of budget execution. Bank staff's expertise will play a
significant role in assisting Government in the design and functioning of
capacity building initiatives. Financing: The Association will provide
resources to finance Government expenditures based on a consolidated,
agreed performance-based budget.Training: The program requires Government
to make substantial investment in training staff to give them skills to
carry out new operations and functions to meet long term needs of public
expenditure management. The 2001 budget provides appropriations to cover
hiring staff, training, and carrying-out studies in the following areas:
procurement, budget preparation including program budgeting, budget
-2 -



implementation including the new computerized system, and monitoring and
evaluation. The Bank staff will assist the Government in organizing the
training program and selecting technical assistance.
4. Description
The reform program seeks to remedy the major deficiencies in the existing
budget management system. It is centered on two fundamental changes: (1)
a shift in the role of the finance and planning ministries from
centralized management of actual spending to increased devolution of
spending authority to line agencies (and eventually to decentralized
levels of government) within a stronger fiduciary framework, and (2)
within the line ministries (or other spending agencies), a move toward
performance-based budgeting, based on well-defined budget programs
formulated within a medium-term framework, under which progress would be
monitored on the basis of explicit indicators. The reform program, which
began to be implemented in 2000, will necessarily span several years, as
it involves building capacities as well as simply changing institutions
and procedures. A stronger fiduciary framework is central to the reform
program, and the government is in the process of improving the
availability of financial information through computerization, tightening
procurement procedures to assure greater transparency, strengthening the
internal audit capacities, and reinforcing the capabilities of the supreme
audit authority. The foundation for the reform program is being put in
place during 2000-2001. The key measures taken to date include the
formulation of budget programs in 5 of the 19 ministries, covering nearly
60 percent of total spending - leading to greater clarity in the proposed
spending programs, a new procedure for managing expenditures that gives
line agencies more autonomy, measures to expand the capacity of the
internal audit service to carry out ex post reviews, a new procurement
code that will help assure that sound, transparent practices are followed
in public contracts, computerization of all accounts - using a new
nomenclature (used by all members of the WAEMU), and increased budgetary
resources for the supreme audit authority. The program has included and
will continue to require substantial training and technical assistance,
especially on procurement, computerization, and the formulation of budget
programs - most of which is now mainstreamed in to government's own
budget.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost               10
6. Implementation
Successful implementation of the reform program underlying this Credit
will require a considerable amount of Bank staff resources, especially for
the Analytical and Advisory Activities needed to advise on the strategies
and programs underlying annual budget preparation and submissions and on
the various elements of reform and institution building to improve budget
execution. Bank support to this process will involve a multisector team
on an annual cycle involving both supervision of reforms and institutional
changes and preparation of continuing reforms as the basis for future
credits. Banks missions would coincide with different stages of the
reform and of the budget cycle, including: (1) in expenditure and
procurement planning, in institution building for procurement, expenditure
management, and monitoring and evaluation; (2) in helping formulate sector
-3 -



strategies and identifying coherent expenditure programs; and (3) in
reviewing implementation results and the proposals for the new budget.
This supervision cycle will require sizeable resources.
7. Sustainability
While the specific reforms on which the proposed Credit is based have
already been adopted, there remains the risk that they may not be
implemented as quickly or as thoroughly as planned. There is the risk that
actions to be taken to strengthen capacity in procurement may not be
adequate. There is a specific risk linked to the computerization of the
budget process, as it has not been fully tested in Benin. There is the
risk that the budget will not be fully implemented as submitted, in part
because there may not be sufficient attention to the process of
expenditure planning in all the ministries. The insufficiency of
financial data from spending agencies may hamper the audits, and the
Chamber of Accounts may not be able to build or acquire sufficient
capacity to carry out the expected audits. Some of these risks stem from
the inherent difficulties in reforming an administration and putting a new
system into place - even with the best of intentions, there may be
unforeseen problems and lags. On the usual implementation risks, the Bank
is planning, along with key partners, extensive supervision of the
implementation of the reforms and of the 2001 budget. Moreover, the
reform program includes a series of key performance indicators that
government itself has proposed to monitor. Over the medium term, the
stakes to Government of pursuing the reform and institution building
agenda are much higher than simply this proposed Credit because
satisfactory progress in continuing to strengthen public finance
management will determine the speed that the Bank and other donors can
move to a system of aid delivery based increasingly on the national budget
and procedures. The Letter of Development Policy lays out several
milestones that will be used to trigger the size of future assistance that
would accompany a continuation of the reform program.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Structural Adjustment credits have resulted in major policy changes, which
translated into an improved economic situation. In general, project
implementation has been impaired by low implementation capacity. The
Economic Management Project , a TA project, whose performance was
mediocre, has been closed. Based on those lessons, the PERAC supports the
government being in the driver seat for the design and implementation of
both the budget reform program and the capacity building program. The
establishment of specific performance indicators will facilitate the
monitoring and performance evaluation of this operation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Pierre J. Demangel
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-4-



Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 458-8023
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 5 -



