Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7426 BEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7.8 MILLION (US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
DECEMBER 21, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 14, 2000)
Currency Unit                  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00                       CFAF 739.2
SDR 1.0            =           US$ 1352.81
FISCAL YEAR
Januamyl - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABE           Agence Beninoise pour l'Environnement
AfDB          African Development Bank
AIDS         Acquired hnmune Deficiency Syndrome
BCEAO        Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West African States)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework
CFAA         Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF         Franc de la Communaute Financiere de l'Afrique (African Financial Community Franc)
CPAR         Country Procurement Assessment Report
DIVI         Directorate of Internal Verification and Inspection
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU           European Community
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GIF          General Inspectorate of Finance
HIPC          Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV           Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
I-CAS         Interim Country Assistance Strategy
IDA          International Development Association
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MTEF          Medium-tenn Expenditure Framework
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NGO          Non-govermmental Organization
OHADA        Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique (Organization for the
Harmonization of Commercial Laws in Africa)
PAC          Port Autonome de Cotonou (Port of Cotonou)
PERAC        Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
PIP           Public Investment Program
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF          Structural Adjustrnent Facility
SIGFIP       Integrated Computer System for Budget Management
SONAPRA    Societe Nationale de Promotion Agricole (National Company for Agricultural Promotion)
WAEMU        West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice President                  Callisto Madavo
Country Director                Antoinette Sayeh
Sector Manager                  Charles Humphreys
Task Team Leader                Pierre Demangel



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Credit and Program  Summary ....................................................i
I. The Economy ....................................................1
A.   COUNTRY CONTEXT .................................................1I
B.   ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS ..................................................2
C.   MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS ..................................................3
II. Benin's Reform Program ....................................................3
A.   MACROECONOMIC AND SECTOR REFORMS ..................................................3
B.   THE BUDGET REFORM PROGRAM ........................................8
a.    Performance Budgeting .........................................9
1. Budget Formulation ...........................................                                          10
2. Budget Monitoring and Performance Evaluation ........................................... 13
b.    Budget Management ........................................                                              15
1. Budget Execution ........................................... 15
2. Procurement Procedures ............................................                                     16
3. Internal control and audit ............................................                                 17
c.    External Oversight ........................................                                             17
III. The Proposed Public Expenditure Reform  Adjustment Credit ...................................................    18
A. CREDIT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .18
B. CREDIT RATIONALE .18
C.  LINK TO CAS.1 9
D. OWNERSHIP OF THE REFORM PROGRAM .19
E. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT TO THIS CREDIT .20
F. CREDIT AMOUNT AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS .20
G. CONDITIONS FOR CONTINUED BANK SUPPORT .21
H. BENEFITS AND RISK .22
I. DELIVERING THE CREDIT .25
J. CREDIT IMPLEMENTATION .25
IV. Bank Operations ..................................                                                               25
V. Collaboration with IMF and other donors ..................................                                        26
VI. Recommendations ................                                                                                 27
Annexes .................28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Benin
Amount:                 SDR 7.8 million (equivalent to US$10 million)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years including 10 years of
grace
Program Objectives:     The objectives of the proposed Public Expenditure Reform
Adjustment Credit are: (i) to increase the impact of Government
expenditures on economic and social development and poverty
reduction; (ii) to improve governance by providing a transparent
system of budgeting linking budget allocations to program objectives
and  sector strategies; (iii) to  strengthen  the Government's
administrative capacity to manage public expenditures efficiently;
and (iv) to establish a fiduciary framework enabling the provision of
external financial assistance.
Credit Description:     Based on an agreed set of public expenditure reforms, as detailed in
the Letter of Policy Development (see Annex 6), the Association will
provide resources to the Government.
Benefits:               The reform program associated with this Credit aims to improve the
effectiveness of public spending in general, as well as the
transparency and accountability of public resource management. As
such, it will strengthen the dialogue on budget issues, leading to
better outcomes. This improved framework is essential to achieve the
budget re-priorization that will inevitably need to accompany the
PRSP, and should help ensure best use of HIPC resources as well.
Risks:                 The main risk is that implementation of reforms may not be as speedy
and thorough as planned. Extensive supervision of the
implementation of the reforms and of the 2001 budget is planned.
Also, the reform program includes a series of performance indicators
to monitor progress. While the adjournment of the Parliament prior
to the upcoming March 2001 Presidential elections may delay the
ratification of this Credit, this delay in itself is unlikely to affect the
continued implementation of reforms on which Credit approval
would be based. On the contrary, approval of this Credit will be a
powerful signal to Government and donors that progress in financial
management matters.
Disbursements:         The proposed Credit would be disbursed in one installment upon
Credit effectiveness.






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit to the Republic of Benin for
SDR 7.8 million, US$10 million equivalent. The Credit would be on standard IDA
terms, with a maturity of 40 years, including 10 years of grace, and would be disbursed in
one installment upon effectiveness.
2.    The proposed adjustment Credit would be associated with reforms in budget
preparation and management in Benin, which are necessary to move eventually to
consolidated financial transfers and performance-based budgeting in the future, the vision
laid out in the Interim CAS (I-CAS) that accompanies this document. As steps in this
direction, this Credit would help reinforce the Government's reform and capacity
building program in: (i) improving the budget preparation process and resource
allocation; (ii) making budget execution more transparent and efficient; (iii) improving
the budget reporting system to produce the financial information needed for monitoring,
evaluation, and audits; (iv) improving procurement procedures and practice; (v)
developing monitoring and evaluating capacity, in particular the ability to produce
information needed to assess budgetary outcomes and impact; and (vi) making more
effective internal and external auditing.
3.    The Government's current strategy was described in an Interim  Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (IDA/SecM2000-357) discussed by the Board in July 2000 in
the context of the HIPC Decision Point (document IDAlR2000-129). As noted in the joint
World Bank-IMF Staff Assessment of the Interim PRSP, more work is needed to
complete a full poverty reduction strategy. The reform program supported by the Credit
(as described in the Letter of Development Policy) is therefore aimed at enabling the
Government to strengthen its public expenditure management system, and to make the
budget a tool for implementing the Poverty Reduction Strategy, once a full PRSP is in
place and reflected in medium-term objectives and policies.
I. THE ECONOMY
A.   Country Context
4.    Benin has a population of 6.1 million, one fourth of which lives along the coast,
where the density reaches 340 per square kilometer, one of the highest densities in Africa.
The rate of population growth averages around 2.8 percent per year, and half of the
population is under 15. Benin's per capita income is US$380. Over one third of the
population lives in poverty with inadequate food supply and little access to medical care,
education and other social services. Life expectancy is only 53 years; almost 44 percent
of the population have no access to safe water; and less than half of the male population
and less than a quarter of the female population can read and write. According to the



- 2 -
interim PRSP, poverty still affects about 35 percent of the population. It is estimated that
HIV/AIDS has infected about 4 percent of the adult population, and without an
extraordinary effort, the epidemic is likely to turn exponential and have a devastating
impact on the country's development.
5.    Nearly 60 percent of the population live in rural areas and derive their subsistence
from agriculture and the cultivation of cotton. Agriculture accounts for 38 percent of
GDP, employs 70 percent of the active population and contributes 80 percent of export
earnings and 15 percent of Government revenues. The main manufacturing activities are
agro-business, textiles, and construction. Services contribute about 48 percent of GDP,
including a large trading sector due to Benin's role as a trade corridor for landlocked
WAEMU countries and as a link to Nigeria.
B.   Economic and Political Developments
6.    Following a turbulent start after independence Benin is now a pluralistic
democratic country. In the sixties Benin experienced a series of political upheavals
culminating in military coups, until Major Kerekou took control in 1972. The country
then adopted a Marxist-Leninist approach, which was only reversed in 1989. The
multiparty system was restored in 1991 with the democratic election of a new President.
In 1996 a peaceful democratic transition took place, returning President Kerekou to
power.
7.    Legislative elections were held in March 1999 and the opposition parties obtained
a slight majority. A new coalition Government was formed in June 1999 with the support
of nine political parties. The Minister of Finance was re-appointed and his responsibility
was increased to include economic policy. The Ministry of Plan was maintained, headed
by a State Minister also in charge of inter-governmental coordination. The Government
reaffirmed its commitment to the continuation of sound fiscal management and the
structural adjustment reform agenda.
8.    Economic performance over the last decade has been commendable. Real GDP
growth picked up above 4 percent in the early 1990s, and increased to above 5 percent
after the CFA franc devaluation in 1994. Benin's external position also markedly
improved despite wide variations in the terms of trade. The trade deficit narrowed from
8.7 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.2 percent in 1994 at the time of the devaluation before
widening again to close to 10 percent in 1999. Substantial levels of foreign financial
assistance combined with generous debt relief strengthened the external position allowing
the Government to remain current on its non-reschedulable debt obligations, to clear all
external arrears, and to contribute to increasing the net foreign assets of the Central Bank
of Western African States.
9.    Fiscal consolidation has been a major achievement as well. During the period
1989-99, Government revenue rose from 9.4 to 16.1 percent of GDP. This resulted from
a variety of factors. Tax administration improved, the tax base was broadened, and the
tariff regime was simplified. A special unit in charge of large taxpayers was created and,
most importantly, a value-added tax with a single rate of 18 percent was introduced. At



the same time expenditures, as a share of GDP, shrank from 20 percent to 17.7 percent on
account mainly of a reduction in the size of the civil service and limited salary increases
especially after the 1994 devaluation. The overall deficit was reduced from 10.7 percent
in 1989 to 1.6 percent of GDP in 1999. Except for the immediate aftermath of the 1994
CFA devaluation, inflation has remained low.
10.  Improvement in social indicators in the 1990s was significant. The Human
Development Index rose by 12 percent between 1992 and 1998. The primary school
enrollment rate rose by over 25 percent and infant mortality was reduced by a quarter
over the last ten years. However, improvement in living standards is uneven among
regions and poverty is still widespread.
C.   Medium Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
11.   The macroeconomic objectives for the period 2000-03 are to achieve an average
real GDP growth of 5 to 6 percent per annum, keep inflation below 3 percent, and
achieve a small surplus in the balance of payments. To meet these targets, the
Government will maintain sound fiscal policies, while increasing budgetary allocations to
key sectors in the context of a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy. Achieving
sustained economic growth will require a large increase in investment and the pursuit of
structural reforms. The Government projections show investment rising from 17.6
percent in 1999 to 20.4 percent in 2003, with the private sector and the public sector
contributing equally to the increase.
12.   The 2001 budgetary framework shows an increase in projected expenditures of
about 16 percent in nominal terms, taking into account the additional poverty-related
spending agreed under the HIPC, and a continued increase in Government's financial
reserves (which now stand at 2 months of spending) which provide a cushion in case of
unforeseen negative revenue or spending shocks. Total expenditures would represent
about 20 percent of GDP. Total external financing will remain at about 30 percent of
Government expenditure, the average for the 1998-2000 period.
II. BENIN'S REFORM PROGRAM
A.   Macroeconomic and Sector Reforms
13.   Since 1989, Benin has pursued an ambitious reform program, transforming a
country marked by seventeen years of central planning into a market economy. The
program sought to strengthen economic and financial management, reestablish control
over public finances while allocating additional resources for non-wage expenditures of
priority sectors, redefine the role of the public sector away from productive activity,
establish a strong financial system, and create an environment conducive to private
investment.  In January 1994, the devaluation of the CFA franc strengthened the
adjustment strategy. The country's external competitiveness was enhanced and the
profitability of the agricultural sector greatly improved.  Three IDA  Structural
Adjustment Credits, two SAF arrangements, two ESAF, and, lately, a PRGF have
supported the successive programs since 1989.



-4-
14.   Together with its efforts to strengthen the macroeconomic situation, the
Government pursued reforms in a number of areas in order to improve the economy's
efficiency, create an environment more conducive to private investment, and increase the
population's participation in the decision-making process. To enhance the efficiency of
public administration, the Government launched a program of organizational audits in the
1 990s, subsequently adopted restructuring plans for key ministries, and started
implementing an anti-corruption action plan in 1998. The Government has also initiated
a process of decentralization to ensure better participation of the population in local
economic development. The National Assembly has adopted the reform and the 77
districts are to be transformed into municipalities managed by elected officials.
Municipal elections were originally scheduled for 2000, but were postponed to follow the
presidential elections scheduled for March 2001.
15.   Civil service reform has long been discussed, but structural changes in this area
have been much less than in most others. Personnel management issues have proven
difficult to resolve. A stable balance between the imperatives of fiscal balance and the
level and evolution of compensation for civil service has not been reached. The wage bill
has been kept under control through a reduction of public employment and wage freezes,
but these cannot continue indefinitely. A more comprehensive strategy for civil service
reform was prepared in 1997, including a shift to a performance-based promotion and
remuneration system, but has been stalled by strong opposition from the main civil
service trade unions.
16.   The regulatory framework for private sector development was improved with the
removal of administrative controls on prices, and the adoption of a new business law, a
labor code, and an investment code. Subsequently, Benin ratified the regional treaty for
the harmonization of business law in francophone Africa ("OHADA") providing for the
adoption of Business Law Uniform Acts to be applicable in all States party to the
OHADA treaty, and the establishment of a regional Court of Justice and Arbitration,
which is the Court of Appeals for all matters relating to the implementation of the
Uniform Acts.
17.   Following the collapse of the financial system at the end of the 1980s, the
financial sector has been reorganized. Three state commercial banks and the Agricultural
Savings Bank were liquidated, and their depositors partially repaid. Five new private
commercial banks and a number of savings and loans associations providing credit to
small and medium enterprises have been created. Banks have generally maintained a
strong financial position, even though they remain highly exposed to a deterioration in
the economic situation in the cotton sector, while the largest savings and loans
associations have had difficulties managing the rapid expansion of their activities.
18.   Trade liberalization and privatization have changed the incentives for private
sector-led growth. At the end of the 1980's trade and most commercial activity were
dominated by the state, and the banking system, wholly state-owned, had collapsed. At
the end of the 1 990s Benin had a vibrant privately-owned banking sector. The state had
withdrawn from virtually all commercial activity, and had initiated the privatization of
key energy and telecommunications infrastructure. Benin's trade regime was the most
open and its tariffs the lowest in West Africa (largely adopted by other WAEMU



-5-
members in the common external tariff effective January 2000). This was coupled with
the adoption of a special regime for what is effectively undeclared transit trade with
Nigeria, which will further benefit the private sector.
19.  In addition to the continued implementation of sound macroeconomic policies,
institutional and structural reforms will be crucial to sustaining a high rate of economic
growth. Over the next year, the Government will focus on further reducing direct public
intervention in productive sectors, particularly cotton, turning to private management of
public enterprises in areas like telecommunication, water, electricity, and transport, and
strengthening private sector development through the liberalization of retail prices for
cement and oil products. The Government's program also emphasizes regional
integration within the WAEMU as well as within the ECOWAS.
20.  In terms of public financial management, the Government has, since 1999, been
preparing and implementing a series of reforms to strengthen budget formulation,
execution, and auditing - as part of a multiyear program of building capacity in this area
throughout the public sector. This effort forms the core of the reform program associated
with this adjustment credit, described in detail below (see Section B). The program
includes several transversal reforms, which affect both the capabilities, organization and
responsibilities of the Ministries of Finance and Plan as well as all sector ministries; it
also includes various reforms to sector spending programs, with the aim of improving
their effectiveness. While the Government's program will eventually require all sector
ministries to improve their public expenditure programs - in addition to implementing the
transversal reforms affecting public financial management generally, five ministries have
volunteered to start piloting deeper reforms requiring formulation of sector program
budgets with specific performance targets and monitoring systems, which aim to improve
the quality of spending in these sectors together with the accountability of the line
agencies to deliver results. These initial five ministries cover education, health, transport,
rural development and urban and environment; their overall situation is summarized in
the following paragraphs.
21.   The transport sector is particularly important in Benin because it is a trade
corridor for landlocked WAEMU countries and an essential link between WAEMU
countries and Nigeria. The management of the road network has improved with the
establishment of an autonomous Road Fund in 1996, which is financed by petroleum
taxes, customs duties on vehicle imports, road tolls, and budget transfers. The Ministry of
Transport now contracts 80 percent of road maintenance to the private sector, which has
allowed it to reduce its maintenance staff by 90 percent while increasing the overall
efficiency of road maintenance operations. The management of the rail company, jointly
owned by Benin and Niger, is also to be privatized, although progress has been delayed
by the need to reach agreements with Niger. In view of the numerous problems faced by
the Port of Cotonou, the Government has commissioned a study on privatizing its
management. In line with the capacity to implement programs and with the importance
of rural roads as a way of fighting poverty, the 2001 budget for the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport includes a 22 percent increase in road construction and
maintenance.



-6 -
22.   Environmental management has made significant progress since the adoption of
the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1993. Since its creation in 1995, the
national environmental agency (Agence Bininoise pour I 'Environnement--ABE) has been
given the responsibility for implementing the priority programs identified in the NEAP,
with overall policy orientation provided by the Directorate of the Environment, Ministry
of Environment, Housing and Urban Affairs. Over the past five years, the agency has
worked toward mainstreaming the environment into sector policies focusing on the
following areas: (i) institutional strengthening in central and local administrations, (ii)
monitoring the implementation of the regulatory framework, (iii) establishing an
environmental information management and monitoring system, and (iv) implementing
an education, information, and communication program.  In February 1999, the
Government has adopted an over-arching environmental law that regulates all
development activities that represent a threat to a sustainable use of natural resources and
the environment.
23.  In 2000, the Ministry of Environment and ABE have started the preparation of a
national program for environmental management. This program will consolidate the
achievements of the last few years within an integrated framework, and expand the areas
of interventions. The key objectives of the program include: (i) the development and up-
grading of market-oriented and command-and-control instruments for effective
environmental management; (ii) support to the formulation of local environmental
management plans; (iii) integrated solid waste management; and (iv) urban air pollution
control.
24.   To improve urban infrastructure the Government has sought to strengthen local
institutions so that they may better take charge of their communities in association with
NGOs and local residents. Technical units have been established in the main urban
centers of Cotonou, Porto-Novo and Parakou to program and manage urban services, and
technical assistance has been provided with support from IDA. At the same time, fiscal
resource mobilization at the local level has been strengthened with the computerization of
urban property registers and training for tax collection.
25.   Benin's economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, which directly accounts for
38 percent of GDP and employs 70 percent of the active population. Since the early
1990s, most public enterprises processing agricultural products other than cotton have
been either closed or privatized. Also, the agricultural extension services and the
technical departments of the Ministry of Agriculture were reorganized. As for cotton,
which accounts for a large share of farmers' cash revenue, the Government abolished the
monopoly of the parastatal cotton company (SONAPRA) in the import and distribution of
fertilizers and pesticides, and in the transportation of seed cotton in 1992. Since then, the
authorities have authorized the operation of private ginning companies and the private
distribution of inputs to producers. Since 1999, producer representatives have participated
in the organization of the bidding process for selecting importers of inputs (fertilizers and
pesticides). In June 2000, the Government abolished SONAPRA's monopsony on the
purchase of seed cotton from producers, and announced plans for the privatization of the
enterprise and the implementation of a regulatory framework giving the sector's
participants greater responsibilities. These measures, which have not yet been fully
implemented, should ensure that producers receive a greater share of revenue generated



by the sector and, therefore, contribute to reducing poverty in producing areas. IDA is
also considering a proposal to help finance activities to help build the institutions needed
to underpin the full liberalization of the sector.  Other issues require continuing
discussion, including the role of the Ministry of Rural Development, and actions to
promote more private activity in a more diversified agricultural system.
26.   Benin's education system has achieved significant progress in coverage over the
past decade. Between 1990 and 1999, the gross primary enrollment ratio rose from 58
percent to 78 percent, reflecting the impact of economic growth, higher urbanization, and
the priority accorded by the Government to basic education. Over this period, the share of
primary education in total public spending on education increased from 54 percent to 58
percent. Despite these achievements, the education sector faces many challenges. Since
1996, per capita budgetary expenditure on education has remained constant at about US$
12. As a share of GDP, public expenditure on education has averaged only 3 percent,
compared with a Sub-Saharan average of 4 percent for other HIPC countries and
6 percent to 10 percent for developed countries. Enrollment in rural areas and for girls
remains low, averaging only, respectively, 60 percent and 57 percent of the school-age
population.
27.   The Education Policy and Sector Strategy Declaration of 1998 defines the present
policy. In primary education, it aims at: (i) improved access through the recruitment of
additional contractual teachers and through the construction of new classrooms; and (ii)
enhanced quality and efficiency through the renovation of curricula, the provision of
school books and teacher training. In secondary education, it aims at: (i) quality
improvement through developing a modem secondary school curriculum designed to
provide the foundation for further education and training in today's rapidly evolving
economy; (ii) the provision of new places through renovation of facilities and improved
utilization rates, to accommodate an increasing number of secondary entrants as primary
education expands and becomes more efficient. In technical and vocational education,
the goals are: (i) improving the quality, relevance and financial sustainability of programs
through the participation of employers; and (ii) opening up training opportunities for the
poor, women and youth in the informal sector. In tertiary programs, the strategy aims at:
(i) quality improvement through allocation of a greater share of the operating budget to
teaching and applied research and through a priority to shorter courses addressing the
needs of the market place; and (ii) a flexible response to access through new admission
and financial aid policies, through the use of distance learning and by creating incentives
for the development of private programs of sound quality. The budget for 2001 is
broadly in line with those objectives, concerning primary and secondary education. At
the tertiary level, the budget is at a transitional phase. Outstanding payments of
scholarships have to be cleared in 2001 and the operating costs of new externally-
financed student facilities have to be met, pending the introduction of new policies on
cost-sharing.
28.   Over the past decade, health indicators in Benin have improved substantially.
Infant mortality has declined from 104 in 1990 to 87 deaths per thousand live births in
1999, compared to the sub-Saharan averages of 100 and 92, respectively. Factors behind
the improvement include increased access to clean water, immunization coverage,
utilization of public health facilities. Despite these improvements, population and health



- 8 -
indicators remain very low. Life expectancy is only 53 years. Child malnutrition remains
high, with 29 percent of children under 3 underweight, and treatable illnesses, such as
malaria and perinatal ailments, account for a large part of infant mortality.
29.   From 1994 to 1999, total public health expenditures have increased, both as a
proportion of the national budget and per capita (from US$5 in 1994 to US$7 in 1999).
However, expenditure remains low, at only 10 percent of public expenditure and
1.7 percent of GDP. Over the same period, private expenditures increased from about
US$6 to US$20 per capita per year, and the private health sector, both for-profit and not-
for-profit, has grown rapidly in urban areas. These trends present challenges to the role of
the public sector and to public health policy. They create the need for greater regulation,
improved targeting of public resources to the needs of disadvantaged populations,
broader alternatives to the direct public provision of services in urban areas, insurance
schemes to assist the poor to cope with the cost of catastrophic illness, and greater
partnership with the private sector to improve health outcomes of the population, in
particular with regard to maternal health, malaria, and HIV.
30.   The formulation of health policies followed a consultative process, sanctioned by
the 1995 Health Sector Round Table. The policy defined in 1995 aims at extending the
coverage of health services and improving service delivery and quality of care.
Operational strategies emphasize decentralization and the development of partnership
with the private sector. Thus far, progress on the implementation of these policy and
strategies has been uneven and only limited results have been achieved. The health
system has been reorganized around health districts but not all health districts are fully
operational. Although geographical access to health facilities have been slightly
improved, utilization of health services remain relatively low. Good results have been
achieved by the immunization program but the response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
needs to be scaled up. In spite of the transfer of some managerial responsibilities to the
regional administrations, most of the decisions still take place primarily in the central
ministry and a large part of the health budget is still centrally managed. Partnership with
the private sector remains largely insufficient in regard of its explosive development. In
an effort to better address priority issues, the proposed program and health budget for
2001 put more emphasise on communicable diseases (malaria and HIV/AIDS) and on
improving planning and management. More efforts are currently being done to better link
resources and outcomes and improve monitoring. With donor support, the Ministry of
Health has now embarked on a process to review and revise its policies and strategies.
B.    The Budget Reform Program
31.   By contrast to the achievements in fiscal discipline, the inefficient budget system
has not improved much during the 1 990s. Earlier efforts in budget management have not
addressed important weaknesses, which were diagnosed in IMF technical assistance
missions, as well as in joint Bank-Government public expenditure reviews. The major
deficiencies in the existing system include a bifurcated budget system handled by two
separate ministries (Finance and Plan); budget formulation based more on inputs than on
explicitly achieving sector strategies and results; excessively centralized expenditure
controls (including redundant ex ante checks, retaining under the control of the Ministry



- 9 -
of Finance a significant share of the budget allocated to line ministries, substantial
recourse to nonstandard spending practices to circumvent procedural rigidities); limited
monitoring of budget execution (except for generally separate and unreconciled reporting
on recurrent and PIP spending); and virtually no systematic evaluation of impact (for
example, incidence of spending), and at best summary financial audits.  These
weaknesses are compounded by weak implementation capacity by the sector ministries,
which has resulted in low budget execution rates.
32.   The reform program seeks to remedy the major deficiencies in the existing
system. It is centered on two fundamental changes: (1) a shift in the role of the finance
and planning ministries from centralized management of actual spending to increased
devolution of spending authority to line agencies (and eventually to decentralized levels
of government) within a stronger fiduciary framework, and (2) within the line ministries
(or other spending agencies), a move toward performance-based budgeting, based on
well-defined program budgets formulated within a medium-term framework, under which
progress would be monitored on the basis of explicit indicators. The reform program,
which began to be implemented in 2000, will necessarily span several years, as it
involves building capacities as well as simply changing institutions and procedures. A
stronger fiduciary framework is central to the reform program, and the Government is in
ihe process of improving the availability of financial information through
computerization, tightening procurement procedures to assure greater transparency,
strengthening the internal audit capacities, and reinforcing the capabilities of the supreme
audit authority.
33.   The foundation for the reform program is being put in place during 2000-2001.
The key measures taken to date include: (i) the formulation of program budgets in 5 of
the 19 ministries, covering nearly 60 percent of total spending - leading to greater clarity
in the proposed spending programs; (ii) a new procedure for managing expenditures that
gives line agencies more autonomy; (iii) measures to expand the capacity of the internal
audit service to carry out ex-post reviews; (iv) a new procurement code that will help
assure that sound, transparent practices are followed in public contracts; (v)
computerization of all accounts - using a new nomenclature (used by all members of the
WAEMU) and based on a functioning system in C6te d'Ivoire; and (vi) increased
budgetary resources for the supreme audit authority. The program has included and will
continue to require substantial training and technical assistance, especially on
procurement, computerization, and the formulation of program budgets - most of which
is now mainstreamed in to Government's own budget.
a.    Performance Budgeting
34.   The two pillars of the performance budgeting approach, being tested by the five
pilot ministries (see para. 20) are the use of program budgets for the preparation and
presentation of the consolidated budget, and the mainstreaming of monitoring and
evaluation into budget management.



- 10-
1.    Budget Formulation
35.   System in 1999. Before reforms got underway in 1999/2000, the Ministry of
Finance coordinated the recurrent budget preparation, but the Ministry of Planning
prepared the capital budget. Preparation of the operational and capital budget was not
properly coordinated. The capital budget was prepared on the basis of the Public
Investment Program (PIP), essentially a collection of projects financed largely by donors.
Only PIP expenditures were taken into consideration in the medium term planning and
their impact was not reflected in the recurrent budget. Decisions on which capital
expenditures to include were determined largely by the availability of external project
financing rather than on explicit medium- and long-tern sector strategies.
36.   The Ministry of Finance has itself directly managed a sizable amount of
appropriations, even though they were directly related to the operation of sector
ministries (and should have been, but were not, included in their budgets). This
underestimated the real costs of budget operations in the sector ministries, and did not
give them the full responsibility of managing their budget. Ministries had the feeling that
all budget decisions were taken in the center, and that they had very little input into the
final budget. They themselves did not have the tools and the skills to prepare sensible
budget requests that could generate attention and approval by the central budget planners.
Consequently, line ministries tend to be oriented more toward externally financed
projects, which they feel give them more autonomy, often at the price of fragmentation.
37.   Budget preparation was an open process in its initial phase. The sector ministries
and public agencies prepared their budget requests without sector allocation ceilings.
While some decisions on substance were taken on individual projects, decisions on the
consolidated recurrent budget consisted only in across the board increases or cuts (or at
best with privileged overall increases for education and health). The main weaknesses
were: 1) the lack of coordination between recurrent and capital expenditures in budget
formulation; 2) excessive centralization of budgetary decisions in the ministries in charge
of respectively finance and planning; and 3) poor articulation between sector strategies
and budget levels.



- 11 -
Table 1.
Government Budget 1998-2000
Consolidated Expenditures Including Projects
(in billion of CFA francs)
1998      1999      2000       2001       Ratio
actual    actual    budget    budget  (percent of total
budget, 2001)
Total Expenditure             228       251       304        354         100
of which:
Education                    41        45        64         76         21
Health                       18        26        34         41          12
Transport and Roads          26        31        32         39          11
Rural Development            20        19        27         28          8
Environment/Urban            6         8         14         18          5
Total Revenue                 211       235       249        278         78
Overall Balance               -17       -16       -55        -76
Financing (including debt     17         16        55        76          22
relief)
Memorandum item:
Total 5 ministries            110       128       171        202         57
38.   Reforms in 1999-2000. To begin to deal with these problems, for the preparation.
of the 2000 budget, the Government initiated a move to performance budgeting in five
sector ministries which account for about 57 percent of total budget (Table 1). These
ministries - education; health; environment and urban development; rural development;
and public work and transportation - can be considered the major players in efforts to
promote long-term growth and to alleviate poverty. Based on their existing sector
strategies, a logical framework was presented for each program, linking reqi.ested inputs
to activities, outputs, specific and sector objectives. Program budgets reflected this
analysis, covering both capital and recurrent expenditures whether they were financed
domestically or externally. The program budgets were ultimately reconciled with the
traditional line budget and sent to Parliament, although too late to be of use during the
budget hearings.  While this initial effort showed promise, there were inevitably
weaknesses. The proposed programs concentrated mostly on the budget year; the multi-
year projections were weak. The final resource allocations agreed by the Cabinet were
granted more on the basis of traditional political considerations than by taking into
accounts the analysis made in the program  budgets.  Moreover, the insufficient
coordination between the preparation of the budget and the PIP meant that the final
agreed budget was significantly constrained in terms of both internal consistency between
recurrent and capital spending, and in terms of consistency with strategic objectives.
39.   For the preparation of the budget for 2001, the Government sought to build on the
experience for the 2000 budget, in an ongoing effort to link final budgetary decisions
more closely to the performance budgeting approach. Ministries were to prepare their
budget initially on the basis of a zero increase in the amount of resources, while preparing



- 12 -
additional funding proposals (whether to expand existing programs or to start new ones)
to be submitted to the Cabinet. Allocation of additional resources were to be made in a
competitive manner based on the respective merits of the additional programs prepared
by the five pilot ministries. The process was codified in a budget orientation letter sent to
the ministries in early June. The budget for 2001 was finalized in early November 2000.
40.   While progress was accomplished regarding the formulation of sector strategies in
the five pilot ministries, the budget discussions revealed, not surprisingly, how difficult it
is for an administration to shift to a process of making budgetary decisions based on a
unified budget and the program budget approach. The quality of the draft program
budgets was uneven, reflecting the varying quality of existing sector strategies, as well as
different institutional capabilities. Nor were the priorities of the programs always
coherent with the poverty reduction strategy of the Government, which has not yet been
codified in a PRSP, and in many cases the poverty rationale of the proposed spending
was not sufficiently detailed. Internally, the proposed sector program budgets were often
insufficiently linked to the objectives and their expected results. Finally, in contrast to
the Budget Circular, the initial spending proposals exceeded by far the ministries
implementation capacity and the amount of financial resources which could reasonably
be available. As a result, in an effort to bring the overall proposal into the overall budget
envelope, the Ministry of Finance, together with Planning, had to specify sector
envelopes, which served as a basis for the ministries to finalize their budgets. In this
process, these two ministries inevitably got involved in adding or deleting funds for
specific actions, which largely side-stepped the objective of involving the Council of
Ministers directly in decisions on intersectoral budget allocations, on the basis of the
quality of the proposed spending increases. While these are important weaknesses in the
process of budget formulation, they must be judged in the context of the process by
which the Government will build the institutional capacity to prepare, implement, and
monitor its budget. Program budgets represent a radical departure from past budgeting
techniques, and one requiring significantly more responsibility and reflection by sector
ministries. Faced with this responsibility in preparing the 2001 budget, ministries have
made important strides in internalizing the new process of budgeting, and the emphasis
on performance indicators, on which there is no question, will only strengthen ministerial
resolve to improve their budget content in the future.
41.   With respect to the overall content of the proposed program budgets, there has
been a perceptible shift toward better programs, recognizing that the legacy of past
programs and policies makes it impossible to change budget content dramatically from
one year to the next. In aggregate, while total expenditure increased by 16 percent in
nominal terms, expenditures for the five pilot ministries increased by 18 percent.
Although it can be argued that a large part of the budget increase went to other ministries,
it must be noted that from 1998, the share of the five pilot ministries in total expenditures
grew steadily from 48 percent to 57 percent, reflecting a clear trend to favor spending in
what are the key ministries for poverty alleviation. Among the additional expenditures
figure the financing of the measures agreed under the HIPC agreement, and new
appropriations to help implement the budgetary reforms, such as strengthening
monitoring and evaluation units in sector ministries and a strengthening of the Chamber
of Accounts (the auditor general). The Ministry of Transport made a convincing case for



- 13 -
a solid increase of its road program, including a program for rehabilitating rural roads. In
the Ministry of Education, however, a large share of the increase went to higher
education; here the Government was faced with tensions arising from a large student
population without enough teaching and lodging facilities, and the absence of a
satisfactory strategy to deal with the sector in the longer term - for example, through cost
recovery. On balance, the focus of budget allocations is improved, compared to 2000,
because a majority of the new or expanded programs reflect the Government's
willingness to support poverty reduction initiatives, while it works on a new poverty
reduction strategy.
42.   Agenda for 2001. The main objective for 2001 will be the preparation of a full
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) underlying the government budget
preparation. Consistent with the macroeconomic framework, the MTEF will include full
program budgets for the pilot ministries, including updated sector strategies, expenditure
programs consistent with those strategies, credible three-years projections of resource
requirements and performance indicators, and a fully unified budget. The MTEF is
scheduled to be presented to the National Assembly, if possible together with the PRSP,
at the same time as the launching of budget preparation.
2.    Budget Monitoring and Performance Evaluation
43.   The system in 1999. Budget monitoring has been traditionally both centralized
and fragmented. It is centralized, because it is performed essentially by the ministries in
charge of Finance and Planning.  It is fragmented because recurrent and project
expenditures are monitored respectively by the two ministries, under different bases:
recurrent expenditures are monitored on the basis of commitments and payment orders
(but not payments) by the Ministry of Finance, while project expenditures are monitored
on a physical execution basis by the Ministry of Planning. The two sets of reports are
hardly coherent with each other. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has difficulties
monitoring correctly decentralized expenditures, or expenditures carried-out through
imprest accounts. Reconciliation takes place when the Ministry of Finance prepares the
Final Accounts. Those are typically produced with a one-year lag. Sector ministries are
also supposed to keep records of their expenditures but generally have neither the
incentives nor the information to do it.
44.   Reforms in 1999-2000. In 2000, the Government has adopted a new budget
system which covers all expenditures, externally - as well as domestically-financed.
Sector ministries have received increased responsibilities for budget execution, for which
they will be held accountable.  As part of the accountability process in budget
implementation, sector ministries will: (i) maintain monthly records of budget execution;
(ii) produce quarterly reports on budget implementation that reflect their financial and
operational performance; and (iii) establish and monitor performance indicators, as part
of the monitoring and evaluation of their program budgets.
45.   To facilitate monitoring and accounting and to make the system more efficient
and rigorous, the budget implementation will be computerized, which will become
operational in January 2001. This system is based on the one developed in C6te d'Ivoire.



- 14 -
It covers both capital and recurrent expenditures. It rationalizes internal controls and will
provide complete on-time information on budget execution. Ivorian officials provided
technical assistance to the Benin team' in designing the system; French and EU financed
technical assistance will continue to assist the Benin team during the implementation
phase.
46.    In addition to monitoring spending per se, and to complete the new performance
budgeting system, the Government has decided to put more emphasis on indicator design
and monitoring, as well as evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation units will be
strengthened or created in each ministry applying performance budgeting. A program to
train staff in techniques of monitoring and evaluation has been put in place. A series of
workshops was launched in 2000.
47.    The Government has already identified two sets of performance indicators:
overall budget management indicators (see Box l) and sector related indicators. Some of
the overall budget management performance indicators have been followed  on a trial
basis for the first six months of the 2000 budget. Performance indicators of output,
outcome and impact, as part of their 2001 program budgets, have also been developed for
the five ministries, based on the initial experience in 2000. They are presented in annex 1.
Data to measure them will be derived from yearly statistics, evaluation reports of the
ministries and beneficiary surveys.
' The Beninese authorities have already adopted the corrective measures needed to prevent the potentially
negative impact of the new system on the inplementation of externally fnanced projects, which was a
major problem in Cote d'[voire in the frst year of implementation. One feature of the existing system in
Benin (the use by project managers of large igprest accounts) will help prevent delays in project execution.
The other corrective measure is to delegate to project managers a spending authority similar to the one
granted to sector ministries in the new budget system, which will overcome most of the potential problems.



- 15 -
b. Budget Management
1.    Budget Execution
48.   The system in 1999. Centralization and complexity has characterized budget
implementation procedures in Benin. Authority to spend has been concentrated in the
Ministry of Finance, which delegates only partially to sector ministries. Representatives
from the Ministry of Finance (financial controllers) perform ex-ante controls in almost
every phase of the procedure (commitments, verification of service rendered). The
multiplicity of the stages at which ex-ante verification is carried out is cumbersome and
conducive to delays, inefficiencies and mistakes; in addition, it dilutes responsibility and
accountability. Payment orders issuance is centralized in the Ministry of Finance, at the
Budget Directorate, and payments are centralized at the Treasury.
49.   Budget management by sector ministries themselves has been de facto restricted
to a portion of non-salary recurrent expenditures. Financial departments of the ministries
do not have access to the management of most PIP expenditures, which usually are
managed by independent project units or by the donors themselves. In addition, given the
complexity and the slow pace of implementation procedures, non-standard approval
procedures are currently used to sidestep controls. For example, advance payments allow
spending agencies to skip the commitment authorization stage. While this is supposedly
an exceptional procedure, substantial amounts of Government's non-salary operational
costs were typically handled this way in 1999.
50.   Reforms in 2000-2001. In April 2000, the Government adopted a new system
that would apply to budget implementation from 2001. The new system will be a unified
system that applies to all expenditures, including project expenditures. Authority to make
commitments, and to issue payment orders, once the work has been accomplished or the
goods delivered, will be devolved to sector ministries. The financial controller will
assign agents to sector ministries, partly to help build capacity for better internal control
in the spending agency, partly to make controls more efficient and less time consuming.
The new system coincides with the adoption of an integrated computerized budget
management system which will both strengthen expenditure controls and make timely
monitoring and reporting possible (see section B-a-2).
51.   A new budget nomenclature reflecting the WAEMU directives was promulgated
in July 1999, and the new budgetary nomenclature was used for the preparation of the
2001 budget and will be used for its implementation at all stages of the budget process:
commitment, payment order/verification, and actual payment. Under this nomenclature,
all expenditures, including those externally financed, are to be properly incorporated into
the Treasury's accounts. The next phase of computerization, to be developed in 2001,
and to become operational in 2002, will integrate Treasury accounting to the rest of the
expenditure management system.
52.   As observed by the CFAA mission, the implementation of these institutional
reforrns will obviously depend on the effectiveness of programs to build capacity at all
levels. The importance of capacity building is further exacerbated by an aging work-



- 16 -
force in the Treasury, two-thirds of which are slated to retire in the next five years, and
the need for an extensive training program in the new techniques. Success of the reforms
will be predicated on the capacity of the Government to address those constraints in the
coming years, and it has defined a series of programs to address this issue. Financing for
the first of these is included in the 2001 budget. The program for 2001 will concentrate
on consolidating the reformed budget execution system. The Budget Director of the
Ministry of Finance has been assigned the task of preparing and implementing a
comprehensive institutional reform and training program. Several donors, including, the
EU, the AfDB and France, have expressed strong interest in financing technical
assistance to support that program.
2.    Procurement Procedures
53.   System in 1999. A procurement code was adopted in 1996, as a condition of SAC
III, but the legislation for its implementation and the establishment of the National
Procurement Board was delayed. As a result, procurement continued to follow the older
procedures, such as the need for clearance by the Minister of Finance for all contracts in
excess of CFA 2 million.  The clearance process involved various departments
represented in ad hoc inter-ministerial commissions. This process, as well as the
composition of the ad hoc inter-ministerial commissions, differed according to whether
the expenditure was financed out of the national budget or out of a foreign loan. Until
May 2000, procurement for externally-financed contracts was organized and cleared by
the Debt Amortization Agency, virtually a second finance department in charge of all
externally-financed projects.
54.   Reforms in 1999-2000. A World Bank procurement assessment mission reviewed
the procurement procedures in 1999. The CPAR report recommended that: (i) the ad-
hoc ministerial commissions be abolish'ed and replaced by a permanent National
Procurement Board that could delegate some of its responsibilities to some procurement
committees at the local level; (ii) standard procurement practices be established; (iii) all
procurement contracts be publicized and the results published in the local press; (iv) the
National Procurement Board provide technical training, for all ministries; and (v) the
National Procurement Board order annual external ex-post audits to verify that
procurement accords with the new procedures.
55.   An implementation decree for the procurement code was issued soon after the
CPAR mission, confirming its recommendations. The National Procurement Board was
established on April 11, 2000.  A new procurement procedure manual, which
incorporates recommendations of the CPAR, was adopted and promulgated by a
ministerial decree of February 14, 2000. It has been found satisfactory by Bank's
procurement experts. Government has prepared a dissemination and training plan and a
first workshop took place in March 2000, although attendance was low. A follow-up to
the CPAR in October 2000 recommended that the training plan be intensified and cover
all civil servants involved with procurement, that every ministry hire procurement
specialists, and that the Secretariat of the National Procurement Board be strengthened.
The Government's program for 2001 will focus on implementing these
recommendations.



- 17-
3.   Internal control and audit
56.   The system in 1999. The budget auditing functions were reviewed by the recent
CFAA mission. There are two auditing institutions. Every ministry has an auditing unit,
the Directorate of Internal Verification and Inspection (DIVI). In the Ministry of
Finance, the General Inspectorate of Finance (GIF) operates government-wide under the
authority of the Minister of Finance for all financial matters.
57.   The DIVIs are not very efficient, for several reasons: they lack autonomy and do
not have a permanent auditing mission, their capacity is limited by lack of expertise in
financial management, and their budgetary resources are equally limited. A plan to
overhaul the DIVIs is to be part of the overall program to improve the auditing function.
It will include new recruitment, training, and additional resources. The GIF also suffers
from several weaknesses. It does not control its auditing program, but intervenes on
request from the Minister of Finance or the Presidency. Follow-up on their findings is
under the sole discretion of the Minister of Finance, and their reports are not public.
Their autonomy is also limited by a lack of budgetary resources.
58.   Reforms in 1999-2000. The role of the GIF is being revised from an ad-hoc
financial police role to a more systematic budget auditing function. With the support of
the DIVIs, the GIF would become the keystone of the internal auditing system. The
Ministry of Finance recruited 17 new auditors for the GIF in recent years. They are being
trained and the GIF reorganized to meet the new functions. The GIF in its role as internal
auditor would become operational in 2002. The Ministry of Finance will prepare for
mid-2001 a comprehensive program of institution and capacity building designed to
overhaul its internal control and auditing system.
c. External Oversight
59.   The system in 1999. The Chamber of Accounts, a section of the Supreme Court,
is legally mandated to examine the final Government accounts submitted to it and to
submit its report to the Parliament. The Chamber of Accounts performed no audit for a
long time, for lack of means and commitment. It has recently resumed this activity,
starting with the final accounts of 1998 budget, which were submitted to Parliament in
the budgetary session of end-1999.
60.   Reform program. The mission of the Chamber of Accounts, as the external
budget auditor, is being expanded to include also the review of procurement and
disbursement practices, the quality of expenditure as well as value for money
considerations. Gradually the audit by the Chamber of Accounts of budget execution by
sector ministries will include performance auditing. Performance audits will be based on
monitoring and evaluation reports prepared by the monitoring and evaluation units in the
ministries. For the auditing of the execution of budget 2001, the Chamber of Accounts
expects to receive technical assistance from staff of the auditors general of British
Columbia and Quebec. The modalities of the audit are defined by a protocol prepared
with the assistance of the Canadian auditors. As part of the protocol, the Government has
provided funding in the 2001 budget to hire more auditors and resources for the audits.



- 18-
To test the capacity of the Chamber of Accounts to perform the audits, as well as the
validity of this protocol, a trial audit, conforming to international standards, of the
implementation of budget 2000 will be performed in 2001 for the ministries applying
performance budgeting.
61.   The Finance Committee of the National Assembly plays a key role in budget
approbation and clearance of the final accounts. Its role in the past has been hampered by
the lack of clarity in budget documents, as well as by the lack of auditing information
provided by the Chamber of Accounts. The situation is changing with the adoption of
program budgets, which give more readability to budget proposals, as well as with the
Chamber of Accounts resuming its statutory activity of auditing final accounts. Accounts
for 1998 have been audited and presented to the National Assembly in October 1999.
Similarly, the final accounts for 1999, together with the opinion by the Chamber of
Accounts, have been presented to the National Assembly in October 2000, together with
the 2001 budget proposals. Finance Committee members have expressed the desire to be
more prepared to analyze the improved documents they are receiving now. A bilateral
donor has accepted to finance technical assistance.
III. THE PROPOSED PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.   Credit Objectives and Description
62.   The long-term objectives of the proposed Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment
Credit are: (i) to increase the allocation of Government expenditures on economic and
social development and poverty alleviation; (ii) to improve governance by providing a
more explicit system of budget preparation and execution that links budget allocations to
program objectives and sector strategies; (iii) to increase the efficiency and incidence of
public expenditures; and (iv) to assure fiduciary transparency and accountability
consistent with the international standards.
63.   The proposed Credit is based on a set of institutional reforms and capacity
building essential to reach these objectives. These include the following: (i) reform of
the budget preparation system through the use of performance budgeting, with the goal of
improving the strategic allocation of resources to reduce poverty; (ii) strengthening of the
administrative/institutional capacity for more efficient and timely budget execution and
reporting; (iii) establishment of a fiduciary framework including internationally
recognized methods for procurement, financial management, and auditing of budget
execution; and (iv) greater use of monitoring and evaluation techniques to better evaluate
and report on the outcomes of public expenditures.
B.   Credit Rationale
64.   The proposed Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit is a Structural
Adjustment Credit associated with the Government's overall budgetary reform program.
This program also benefits from a substantially enhanced program of analytical and
advisory activities to help the Government improve both budget content and procedures.



-19-
65.   The Government's program (as reflected in the letter of Development Policy)
provides for several multiyear actions on budgetary programming and implementation,
procedures, institutions, and capacities, which will be monitored and evaluated on a
rolling basis. The preparation has necessarily focused on the key actions that have been
necessary to reach a critical threshold for this Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment
Credit and on the reforms and capacity building to be implemented during the coming
year. The specific actions for subsequent years will be elaborated as part of the
supervision of this Credit and the preparation of any follow on credits.
66.   Fundamentally, the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit approach aims
to enhance the partnership between Government and other donors, by helping establish
the kind of budgetary and fiduciary framework that will allow many donors to deliver
their financial assistance through the government budget and to rely on national
procedures, which will not only make foreign assistance more responsive to the country's
needs - as expressed in program budgets, but will also help minimize the diversion and
fragmentation of capacity caused by multiple activities and budget procedures created by
donor projects.
C.   Link to CAS
67.   The last CAS (IDA/R94-81) was discussed by the Executive Directors on June7,
1994. In April 2000, the Government issued an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). Pending the formulation of a full PRSP, the Bank has drafted an I-CAS
presented in parallel with this Credit. The I-CAS builds on the I-PRSP and proposes a
program of assistance pending finalization of the PRSP and of a full CAS. Bank's
support would focus on the preparation of the PRSP in public expenditure management
within three main areas: (a) analytical work on poverty issues to support the PRSP
preparation; (b) the design and execution of government programs to promote growth and
to reduce poverty; and (c) due diligence work on the management of public resources to
build the foundations for consolidated budget support. To strengthen the Government
capacity to carry out its own development and poverty reduction strategy, the I-CAS
proposes to move gradually away from traditional project and adjustment lending toward
more consolidated budget support principally through Poverty Reduction Support Credits
(PRSCs). An increasing share of IDA resources would be channeled through PRSCs in
support of agreed public expenditure programs consistent with the Poverty Reduction
Strategy.
D.   Ownership of the Reform Program
68.   The proposed Credit would support a reform program that results from two years
of consultation and discussions between the Government, the Bank, and other donors.
The Minister of Finance has taken the lead in the process, affirming as early as December
1998 that budget reform is critical to achieve a more effective use of public resources,
whether from donors or national sources. A first design of the reform was drafted during
a working seminar in early 1999 attended by several ministries together with Bank staff.
A workshop on indicators, in which the principles of performance budgeting to be
applied in Benin were laid out, took place in May 1999. Finally, in July 1999, staff from



- 20 -
the Ministries of Finance and Education presented the blueprints of the overall budgetary
reform program to a major, cabinet-level government seminar. This seminar, with strong
support from the ministry in charge of planning, endorsed the proposed reforms, and
recommended that implementation starts as early as 2000. A fifth pilot ministry
(Environment) quickly volunteered to be part of the initial group of four ministries to
develop the program budget approach. The central and sector ministries have worked
diligently in 2000 to design, refine and implement various parts of the overall reform
program.
69.   Another measure of ownership can be gleaned from the very strong commitment
of the Minister of Finance, among others, to combat corruption and poor management of
public resources generally; the budget reform program is seen as an integral part of the
anti-corruption fight. It is significant that Benin is one of a handful of pilot countries on
the anti-corruption initiative. The anti-corruption program is well underway. A hundred
and twenty cases of embezzlement are under investigation and judgements have been
rendered by the Criminal Court of Justice during its 1999 session.
E.   Value Added of Bank Support to this Credit
70.   This Credit accompanies a Government program aimed at strengthening budget
performance, which intends to make the budget a central instrument to implement the
PRSP under preparation. The value added of the Bank support comes in three key areas.
71.  Institution building: The Bank will continue the process started with the
preparation of this operation. It will help building institutional capacity to deal with
public expenditures management issues in general by helping design appropriate sector
strategies and key sector indicators to evaluate the efficiency of public expenditure. The
Governnent has recognized the need for wide-ranging institutional reforms and capacity
building, to be able to formulate sector strategies and program budgets consistent with
these strategies, to design and to monitor performance indicators, to evaluate the outcome
of the programs, and to carry-out ex-post auditing of budget execution. Bank expertise
will play a significant role in assisting Government in the design and finctioning of
capacity building initiatives.
72.   Training: The program requires Government to make substantial investment in
training staff to give them skills to carry out new operations and functions to meet long
term needs of public expenditure management. The 2001 budget provides CFAF 2.5
billion to finance hiring additional staff, training, and carrying-out studies in the
following areas: procurement, budget preparation including program budgeting, budget
implementation including the new computerized system, and monitoring and evaluation.
Bank staff will assist the Government in organizing the training program and selecting
technical assistance.
F.    Credit Amount and Institutional Arrangements
73.   After taking into account HIPC interim debt relief (of about US$10 million), the
external non-project financing gap is about US$ 35 million. The EU, the AfDB,



- 21 -
Denmark and Switzerland will cover about US$ 25 million. The residual gap, of US$10
million, would be met by the proposed Credit.
74.   The proposed Credit would be disbursed in one installment upon Credit
effectiveness when the Minister of Finance will have notified budgetary allocations to
spending ministries. Procurement and disbursement arrangements will follow the
simplified procedures for Structural Adjustment operations approved by the Board on
February 1, 1996. Thus, disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases and there
will be no procurement requirements. The local currency counterpart generated by the
proposed Credit will be used to finance the Budget. If the proceeds of the Credit are used
for ineligible purposes (i.e., to directly finance items imported from non-member
countries, or to directly finance goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list),
IDA will require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount for use on eligible
purchases; or (ii) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit. Although an audit of the use of Credit
funds may not be required, IDA reserves the right to require audits at any time.
75.   The Credit's administration will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.
Coordination and monitoring of the implementation of the reform will be supported by
the Technical Secretariat for Structural Adjustment Programs.
76.   Environmental safeguards. Benin has adopted a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP) in 1993. In addition to the NEAP, Benin has adopted a Loi-Cadre pour
l'Environnement on February 12, 1999. This law (the closest law to the constitutional
law) enacts all the environmental regulations, including environmental impact
assessment. The Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Urban Affairs has the following
specific objectives in its program for FY 2001: (i) the re-enforcement of IEC activities for
environmental awareness raising, (ii) developing new tools for environmental
management, and (iii) capacity building for environmental management within sector
ministries and other public agencies, including at the local level. The latter includes the
creation of small environmental impact assessment units within each of the targeted
institutions. These units are responsible for screening planned investments for their
environmental effects, and enforcing the environmental impact assessment law.
G.   Conditions for Continued Bank Support
77.   The institutional reform and capacity building program to improve public finance
management on which the proposed PERAC is based will take several years to
implement, and the continued support of development partners in general and of IDA in
particular is considered essential both to help design the programs and sustain the
momentum for reform. As indicated in the I-CAS, the PERAC is considered the
beginning of a transition toward increasingly programmatic lending, consistent with the
program budgets, processes and cycles of Benin. Without prejudging any decision on the
design and timing of a subsequent operation, the Government would be expected to
achieve certain milestones in its program, to justify continued financial support from IDA
and other donors via operations like the PERAC. Drawing on the Government's Letter of
Development Policy, prerequisites for continuing such assistance would focus broadly on



- 22 -
two themes: good implementation of the 2001 budget (based in part on the indicators in
Box I (Section B. a. 2.) and based in part on progress in strengthening capacity), and
improved preparation of the 2002 budget. Specific "triggers" are likely to be based on
the following issues:
*  Satisfactory pace in executing the 2001 budget, designed to minimize the gap
between voted and actual expenditures and to maximize impact on performance
indicators, based on mid-term reports by the pilot ministries.
*  Respect of procurement guidelines and performance criteria, designed to assure
greater transparency and to reduce corruption, while making the procurement process
more reliable, expeditious, and efficient.
* Satisfactory progress on strengthening the systems and capacity to improve internal
and external audits.
*  Elaboration of a fully developed medium-term (2002-2004) expenditure framework
for the overall budget, consistent with the PRSP which would have been finalized, as
a basis for launching the preparation of the 2002 budget.
-  Revision of the 2001 program budgets in the pilot ministries, to sharpen their sector
strategies and budgetary linkages, an effort that would be supported by targeted
analytical work by the Bank during the coming year.
-  Submission to the National Assembly of a 2002 budget that is increasingly oriented
toward growth and poverty reduction, as signified by both spending shares and by the
effectiveness and incidence of key programs.
H.   Benefits and Risk
78.   Benefits: While the immediate beneficiaries of this Credit would be sector
ministries and public sector agencies, the ultimate beneficiaries would be the entire
population, in several ways. First, to the extent that the new public expenditures system
will improve the availability and efficient use of resources for basic public services,
access to and quality of these services can be expected to improve, especially for the pilot
ministries.  This benefit stems both from  more rigorous, unified, and multiyear
formulation of a "performance" budget, and from systems to increase responsibility and
accountability for better outcomes in service delivery. Second, the various reforms that
aim to improve procurement, increase the availability of budget execution information,
and expand the use of internal and external audits will increase transparency in the budget
management and help discourage corruption.
79.   Perhaps the most important benefit will be the strengthening of national capacity
in Benin to manage public resources. The premise underlying such strengthening is that
increased responsibility for budget management, together with more credible systems for
assuring accountability, is essential to increase the incentives for staff and institutions to



- 23 -
function better - that one builds capacity by doing. The Government program not only
aims to increase the responsibility of line ministries for budget management but also
provides resources and mechanisms to help them acquire the skills, and adjust their
procedures, to become more effective.  This is a benefit that will be realized
progressively, as building capacity will take time. The reform program underlying the
proposed Credit is, however, a necessary first step.
80.   The more obvious benefit, however, would be better use of all public resources,
whether from IDA, other donors, or the Benin taxpayers. The improvement in resource
use would result from the key budget management system reforms being put into place,
including budget formulation based on performance-oriented sector strategies and
multiyear expenditure programs, budget execution based on delegated authority for
spending within a context of more rigorous financial management systems and a series of
performance indicators that would be used to measure progress and hold ministries more
accountable for results, and external audits of both financial outturns and performance.
As with building capacity, these benefits will accumulate progressively over time, as less
effective existing spending programs are phased out and better ones are expanded or
introduced.
81.   A corollary benefit would be a major contribution to the fight against corruption,
given the emphasis that the reform program has placed on transparency, fiduciary
monitoring, and external audits. In this sense, the reform program provides a key signal
to budget managers that there will be less tolerance of unacceptable uses of public
resources. The strong interest of the National Assembly, in using the program budgets to
evaluate Government's budget proposals and of holding it accountable for results, and in
the proposed strengthening of the Chamber of Accounts to perform both fiduciary and
performance audits, testifies to the role the reforms can play in improving governance
generally.
82.   Finally, the reform program helps set the stage for a more mature partnership
between Benin and major donors, when national procedures can be increasingly used to
allocate and to spend all budget resources, irrespective of source. The progressive move
toward this partnership is, of course, a tenet underlying both the PRSP process and the
CDF.
83.   Critical Risks: While the specific reforms on which the proposed Credit is based
have already been adopted, there remains the risk that they may not be implemented as
quickly or as thoroughly as planned. An action to be taken to strengthen capacity in
procurement may not be adequate. There is a specific risk linked to the computerization
of the budget process, as it has not been fully tested in Benin. The budget may also not
be fully implemented as submitted, in part because there may not be sufficient attention
to the process of expenditure planning in all the ministries. The insufficiency of financial
data from spending agencies may hamper the audits, and the Chamber of Accounts may
not be able to build or acquire sufficient capacity to carry out the expected audits.
Finally, there may be resistance from within the planning ministry and from certain
project implementation agencies to reforms that aim to unify budget preparation and
execution, as well as opposition by the civil service trade unions to the increased
emphasis on performance in the delivery of public services by the civil service. The



- 24 -
Govermnent is fully aware of these normal implementation risks and has reaffirmed, in
its Letter of Development Policy, to spare no efforts to manage them effectively.
84.   Some of these risks stem  from the inherent difficulties in reforming an
administration and putting a new system into place - even with the best of intentions,
there may be unforeseen problems and lags. But these normal risks may be exacerbated
by the March 2001 Presidential elections which not only will be distracting for key
decision makers and managers but may put pressure on budget execution to deviate from
agreed programs. In particular, early adjournment of the National Assembly in the lead
up to the Presidential elections may delay ratification and effectiveness of the proposed
Credit until mid-2001.
85.   On the usual implementation risks, we are planning, along with key partners,
extensive supervision of the implementation of the reforms and of the 2001 budget.
Moreover, the reform program includes a series of performance indicators that
Government itself has proposed to monitor. With respect to the Presidential election, we
do not believe that it will change either the commitment of the Government or its
capacity to implement the reform program in the future. Moreover, any delay in
effectiveness of the proposed Credit itself will have no impact on the implementation of
the reforms or on the ability of the Government to initially finance proposed spending,
given the limited size of the proposed Credit itself and the comfortable cash reserve
position of the government. To the contrary, early approval of the proposed Credit will
itself be a powerful signal to the Government actors, as well as several important donors,
that the reform program has credibility; it will help preserve and augment the momentum
built over the past two years.
86.   Over the medium term, the stakes to Government of pursuing the reform and
institution building agenda are much higher than simply this proposed Credit because
satisfactory progress in continuing to strengthen public finance management will
determine the speed and size of subsequent programmatic financial support from the
Bank and other donors. The Letter of Development Policy lays out several milestones
that will be used to trigger the size of future assistance that would accompany a
continuation of the reform program.
87.   There is some risk, of course, that the macro-economic management by the
Government would deteriorate markedly or that there would be severe reversals in key
sector reforms, including on cotton and the concession of public utilities. We would seek
to minimize it by constant monitoring of the program, including with the IMF.



-25 -
I.    Delivering the Credit
Box 2. Ch0dpvoMhEg:
Prepratoiy mission               Ja-uay -1999
Worhv on indicators              Ail 1999
Prepaion mission                 November 1999
Workshop on budgeay procedures   May2000
ROC meetig to reviwwthe operion  June 21,2000
Appraisal mission                Sept 25 - Oct- 122000
Negotiations                     December 15,2000
Board peenion                    Jauary 1is 2001
88.   The proposed Credit has been in preparation for over two years (see box 2),
reflecting the fact that it has involved substantial capacity building at the same time, as
indicated by the workshops shown in the processing schedule. In addition, as a
fundamentally multisector operation, because of the critical importance of sector
strategies and program budgets, there have been several smaller sector missions as part of
credit preparation.
J.    Credit Implementation
89.   Successful implementation of the reform program underlying this Credit will
require a considerable amount of Bank staff resources, especially for the Analytical and
Advisory Activities needed to advise on the strategies and programs underlying annual
budget preparation and submissions and on the various elements of reform and institution
building to improve budget execution. Bank support to this process will involve a
multisector team on an annual cycle involving both supervision of reforms and
institutional changes and preparation of continuing reforms as the basis for future credits.
Bank missions would coincide with different stages of the reform and of the budget
cycle, including: (1) in expenditure and procurement planning, in institution building for
procurement, expenditure management, and monitoring and evaluation; (2) in helping
formulate sector strategies and identifying coherent expenditure programs; and (3) in
reviewing implementation results and the proposals for the new budget. This supervision
cycle will require sizeable resources.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
90.   Since 1969, the Association has financed 53 projects in Benin for a total of US$
607 million. Through its projects IDA has tried to reduce poverty by promoting
sustainable economic development. The approach has two prongs: financing projects and
improving the management of the economy and governance. The projects focussed on
protecting and developing human resources; encouraging the construction, the
rehabilitation and maintenance of infrastructure; and promoting rural development and



- 26 -
agricultural production. Three Structural Adjustment Credits implemented between 1989
and 1999 have fostered private investment through incentives, an improved regulatory
framework and a withdrawal of the state from the productive sectors. Interim HIPC relief
was approved in mid-2000.
91.   The FY01 portfolio consists of 13 projects, with a net commitment of US$ 198
million and an undisbursed balance of US$119 million. Infrastructure accounts for 35
percent; human resources 30 percent; industry and energy 27 percent; rural development
13 percent. As was reported in the earlier sections, the adjustments operations have been
by and large successful. On the other hand, traditional projects have typically been
plagued by lack of counterpart funds, delays in Credit effectiveness and disbursement and
procurement issues. Yearly Country Portfolio Performance Reviews are held and
specific measures have been taken and implemented to correct these problems. As a
result, quality and implementation performance of the portfolio has improved as
evidenced by the increased disbursement ratio from 13% in FY98, to 21% in FY99, and
to 24% in FY00. Realism and pro-activity indices are fully satisfactory at 100% in FY00.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF AND OTHER DONORS
92.   The IMF has approved a Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement covering
1989-92 and two Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility arrangements covering 1993-
2000. The IMF has been fully supportive of efforts to strengthen public financial
management, especially measures that will assure the availability of spending data and
that line ministries do not overspend their allocations.
93.   Over the last couple of years an intensive policy dialogue was carried out with the
international community during the preparation of the PERAC.  The European
Commission has already begun to support the budget reform program and provided
unallocated budget support for 2000 and is prepared to do the same in 2001. The AfDB
has indicated its willingness to support the budget reform program and is preparing its
own Structural Adjustment Credit planned for the first quarter of FY2001. Denmark and
Switzerland have indicated their intention to provide budget support for the 2001 budget.
Support by the AfDB and Switzerland is contingent on the Bank's approval of the
proposed Credit.



- 27 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
94.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
December 21, 2000



- 28 -
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Key Performance Indicators
Annex 2:  Policy matrix
Annex 3:  Benin PERAC List of measures taken before Negotiations
Annex 4:  Country at a Glance
Annex 5:  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 6:  Letter of Development Policy
Annex 7:   The Benin Task Team



Annex 1
- 29 -
Performance Indicators Prepared by the Government for the Budget 2001
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal      Sector Indicators         Sector/Country Reports
Increase the impact of    Poverty rate                     Poverty assessment
Government expenditure on
economic and social
development and poverty
alleviation
Quality of service delivery     Beneficiary surveys
Delivery of health services
Improved health coverage    Utilization rate of health  Utilization as measured by the
centers                   number of outpatients visits at
public health services (excluding
the private sector and hospitals).
This is routinely provided trough
the "SNIGS" using form B5
Bed occupancy rate in public  Information is routinely
hospitals                 collected by the SNIGS and
series are available
Treatment of major disease  Immunization coverage   Number of DPT3 doses given to
children under 1. As reported
routinely by services and in the
SNIGS annual report
Administration of resources  Percentage of the GOB
budget allocated to health
Public expenditure on health
per capita
Total volume of internally    Total volume of IGF (user fees)
generated funds           collected by public health
services as reported through the
SNIGS using form Al 2



-30 -
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal      Sector Indicators         Sector/Country Reports
Percentage of MOH         Percentage of recurrent budget
recurrent budget delegated to  effectively delegated to DDS
regional offices          and other C and BMC as
measured from the provisional
budget
Reproductive health care   Assisted/supervised delivery  Number of deliveries supervised
ratio                     by public staff compared to
expected births as measured
routinely by the SNIGS
Sexually transmitted diseases  Utilization of short and long   Percentage of women utilizing
contraceptive methods     modem contraceptive methods
among 15-45 women as
measured by the SNIGS using
data from both ABPF and public
health services
HIV prevalence            Percentage of pregnant women
attending ante natal care services
infected with the HIV as
measured by the sentinel
surveillance system and the
National AIDS Control Program
Delivery of education
services
Increase access to Primary    Enrollment ratios for males   Activity reports on primary
education                 and females                education
Drop out rate
Percentage of repeaters
Percentage of graduates
Construction of classrooms
Secondary education       Percent of primary education  Activity reports on secondary
graduates accessing       education
secondary education



- 31 -
Hierarchy of Objectives   Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring & Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal        Sector Indicators          Sector/Country Reports
Drop out rate
Percentage of repeaters
Percentage of graduate
Technical education         Drop out rate               Activity reports on technical
Percentage of repeaters     education
Percentage of graduates
Construction of technical
schools
Higher education            Drop out rate               Activity reports on higher
Percentage of repeaters     education
Percentage of graduates
Rural Development
Food security               Per capita dietary energy   Surveys
supply
Per capita dietary protein
supply
Crop productivity           Productivity indexes for
major crops
Sustainable management of   Percentage of gazetted forest  Statistical reports
natural resources           with management plan
Share of farmers adopting
IPM/INM
Support for rural self-     Number of functions         Activity reports
promotional activities      transferred to producer     Surveys
organizations
Litteracy rate of rural
population
Public Work and
Transportation



- 32 -
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal       Sector Indicators         Sector/Country Reports
Construction and           -  Kms of surfaced roads    Activity reports
rehabilitation of             constructed
infrastructures            -  Kms of surfaced roads
rehabilitated
-  Kms of surfaced roads
maintained
-  Number of toll boots
constructed
-  Kms of dirt roads
rehabilitated
-  Kms of rural roads
rehabilitated
Duration of road travel    Surveys
between Godomey and
Sobrebra
Merchandise transportation    Tonnage transported East  Statistical reports
West
Tonnage transported North
South
Airport program            Number of secondary
airports
Housing and environment
Urban Environment          Number of urban            Activity reports
agglomerations with a
zoning plan
Solid waste collection and  Percentage of waste       Surveys
disposal                   collected
Drainage                   Extent of drainage
infrastructure constructed
Sewage                     Percentage of households
supplied with sewage
service



- 33 -
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring & Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal       Sector Indicators         Sector/Country Reports
Local environmental action    Number of LEAPs prepared   Annual reports
plans (LEAPs)
Air pollution              Reduction in transport-    Air quality measurements
related air pollution in
Cotonou
Enforcement of             Number of EIA units in     Annual reports
environmental impact       sectoral ministries
assessment (EIA)



Annex 2
- 34 -
Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
Matrix of Planned Actions
Objectives                  Actions through 2000                Actions envisaged during 2001         Actions planned from 2002
(* benchmark for subsquent adjustment
credits)
Introduce performance        *  Issued instructions for preparation of   *  Formulate medium term expenditure  *  Revise medium-term
budgeting - as a way of:        2001 program budgets, including to    framework, 2002-2004, based on PRSP       expenditure framework, on
improving the impact of         distinguish between existing and      program*                                  arolling basis
public spending on growth       proposed new activities as basis for
and development by              interministerial budget arbitrage
establishing stronger
accountability between       *  Prepared program budgets in five  *  Unify recurrent budget (Min. of Finances)  *  Strengthen strategic
spending and results            pilot ministries, including with      and PIP (Min. of Plan)                    discussion of overall budget
performance indicators (partially for                                          by Council of Ministers
budget year 2000 and fully for budget
year 2001)
*  Presented program budgets to      *  Extend budget program approach to      *  Extend budget program
National Assembly, along with        additional ministries for 2002 budget (e.g.,  approach to remainder of
traditional budget (for budget years  water and social protection)             ministries
2000 and 2001)
*  Designed and started implementing a   *  Designate DPP of each sectoral ministries   *  Continue instititutional
training program on budget           as responsible for preparation of program  reform and capacity building
preparation, implementation,         budgets and of monitoring them through    efforts
monitoring and evaluation            quarterly and annual reports
*  Assured sufficient funding to monitor  *  Assure that DPP and DA in each pilot
and evaluate indicators used to track  ministry has sufficient staff and resources,
program budgets in 2001 budget       including TA, to monitor 2001 program
execution
*  Strengthen formulation of sector spending   *  Continued refinement of
strategies as basis for reinforcing program  sector strategies and
budgets in each pilot ministry*          spending programs



-35 -
Objectives                  Actions through 2000                Actions envisaged during 2001         Actions planned from 2002
(*= benchmark for subsquent adjustment
credits)
*  Present a 2002 budget to National     *  Present 2003 and subsequent
Assembly that is more strongly oriented  budgets to National
toward growth and poverty reduction - in  Assembly, reflecting growth
line with the PRSP, including a growing  and poverty alleviation
share of expenditures and increased      priorities
efficiency and targeting in key sectors*
Improve budget management,
aiming at greater delegation
of spending authority; actions
focused in three areas:
*  Expenditure system        .  Prepared semi-annual execution    .  Monitor execution of 2001 budget on    *  Continue semi-annual
reports on the 2000 program budgets,  semi-annual basis, with aim of achieving  monitoring of budget
including disbursement lags for      program budget indicators and of          execution, based on agreed
selected periods                     minimizing gap between voted budget and   criteria
expensed budget*
*  Adopted a new budget expenditure  *  Assure the new budget expenditure system
management system for 2001,          operates effectively
redefining roles of key actors and
providing for delegation of spending
authority to ministries for both
recurrent and PIP expenditures
*  Prepared a new computerized       *  Launch the computerized expenditure    *  Progressively extend the
expenditure management system        management system and, with needed        physical connections to all
(based on Ivorian SIGFIP), together  technical assistance and training, assure  spending agencies, to
with user manuals and training       that it functions effectively             facilitate access to the
computerized system
*  Adopted new budget nomenclature,
consistent with WAEMU directives



-36 -
Objectives                    Actions through 2000                  Actions envisaged during 2001           Actions planned from 2002
(*= benchmark for subsquent adjustment
credits)
Public procurement        .  Adopted a Public Procurement         *  Subject all public tenders and
Manuel, appointed a National           adjudications to non-objection of National
Procurement Board, and prepared a      Procurement Board
training program for public
procurement staff
Respect performance criteria with respect   *  Continue to improve
to public procurement, aiming to minimize   procurement results as
delays and to maximize transparency         measured by performance
(including publication of all public bidding  criteria
results)*
*  Increased use of private (or public not-for-  *  Creation of a specialized
profit) general contracting agencies to     publication for public
carry out procurement ("maitrise            contracts
d'ouvrage deleguee")
* Creation of a database on standard contract
prices
*  Internal controls and audits  *  Appointed and trained 17 internal  *  Further strengthen internal controls by  .  Further strengthen quality of
auditors of the General Inspectorate   reviewing relevant regulations,              internal controls and audits,
of Finance                             harmonizing work programs of various         including necessary
agencies, and providing for sufficient     institutional reforms
resources, staffing, technical assistance,
and training (under responsibility of the
Director General of the Budget)
*  Established the Technical Committee   *  Implement national anti-corruption     *  Continue to implement
in charge of developing a national     strategy                                    national anti-corruption
anti-corruption strategy                                                           strategy



- 37 -
Objectives                  Actions through 2000                Actions envisaged during 2001         Actions planned from 2002
(*= benchmark for subsquent adjustment
credits)
Strengthen external oversight
capacity within Benin, by:
*  Strengthening the supreme   *  Final budg t accounts for 1998  *  Auditing of 1999 final budget accounts  *  Auditing of final budget
audit authority (Chamber     audited by Chamber of Accounts and   and submission to National Assembly       accounts for 2000 and
of Accounts of Supreme       report submitted to National                                                   subsequent years and
Court)                       Assembly                                                                       submission to National
Assembly
*  Increased budgetary allocation to  *  Government to work within its powers to
Chamber of Accounts, in 2001 budget  establish a fully independent Court of
submitted to National Assembly       Accounts, in conformity to WAEMU
Directives
*  Adopted a Protocol defining the   *  Chamber of Accounts to effect a        *  Full-scale performance audits
modalities of the ex-post audit by the  "performance audit" of the 2000 program  of ministries with program
Chamber of Accounts of the           budgets of the five pilot ministries*     budgets
implementation of the 2001 budget
*  Building capacity in      *  National Assembly signed technical    *  Continuation of technical assistance to
National Assembly to         assistance agreement for its Finance  Finance Commission
debate and monitor budget    Commission, financed by external
partners



- 38 -                         Annex 3
Benin PERAC
List of measures taken before negotiations
Regarding the implementation of budget 2000
Program budgets for FY2000 have been prepared by five <<Pilot>> ministries (education,
health, transport, rural development, and environment/urban) within the 2000 Budget.
Instructions have been given by the Minister of finance to monitor indicators of
disbursement lags for the implementation of budget 2000 and providing guidelines for
such monitoring.
The five pilot ministries have issued budget implementation reports for the first semester
of 2000
The Minister of Finance has issued a report on the lag indicators for the months of June,
July, and August of 2000
Procurement
The Government has adopted a procurement manual and made it effective through a
Ministerial decree by the Minister of Finance.
A training program to disseminate the procurement manual has been prepared and its
implementation started.
A National Procurement Board has been put in place.
Preparation of the 2001 budget
The Ministry of Finance has issued a budget preparation guideline letter for the
preparation of the FY2001 budget including the above procedures for pilot ministries
The Government has adopted a 2001 budget, including program budgets for the pilot
ministries, satisfactory to the Association.
The 2001 budget follows a new budget nomenclature consistent with the West African
Economic and Monetary Union directives
Budget implementation system
The Government has adopted by Decree a reformed budget implementation system
satisfactory to the Association.
A pilot of the computerized system is running on the execution of budget 2000.



- 39 -
The Governnent has designed and started implementing a training program on budget
preparation, budget implementation, monitoring and evaluation, satisfactory to the
association.
Auditing, governance
The Government has prepared final accounts for FY 1998.
The Chamber of accounts has audited the final accounts for FY 1998.
The audit of the 1998 accounts has been presented to the National Assembly
The Government has adopted a protocol defining the modalities of the ex-post audit by
the Chamber of accounts of the 2001 budget implementation by the pilot ministries.
The Government has issued a Decree creating the Committee to Develop a National Anti-
Corruption Strategy.
The Minister of Civil Service has recruited and trained 17 additional internal auditors for
the General Inspectorate of Finance.
Before effectiveness
Budgetary allocations for 2001 have been notified to all ministries, in accordance with
the agreed budget.



Annex 4
- 40 -
Benin at a glance                                                            12,19,00
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan     Low                                  -     -
Benin     Aftica  Iricome     Development diamond'
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                      61        642     2,417                Life expectancy
GNP percapita (Atlasmelod, US$)                     380       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS biltos)                       2,3       321        88                      T
Average annual growth, 1993.99                                                                     I
Popuation%)                                          2.8       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                      2.8       2.6       2.3      GNP          /                 Gross
p per                         primary
Most recant esUmate (latest year available, 1993.99)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% ofpoputsbon below nahonaspovefty lne)      33
Urben population (% of total populatIon)              42        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      53        50        60
Intant mortality (per 1,000 lIve bMhs)                87        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of ctWtlen under 5)             29        32        43               Access to safe water
Access to improved water Source (% ofpoputatioN)      56        43        64
illteracy(% ofpopulaton age 15+)                      61        39       39
Gross primary enrollment (% of'school-age population)  78       78        96      -Benin           Low-income group
Male                                                98        85       102
Female                                              57        71        86
KEY ECOWOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998     1999
GDP (US$ bfions)                            1,2      1.5       2.3       2.4     Economic ratios
GrossdomesticinvestmentGDP                 14.7     11.8      17.1      17.6                    Trade
Exportsofgoodsandservices/GDP              12.8    12,8        17.3     16.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  0.4      3.4       6.6       6.4
Gross national savings/GDP                           7.1       11.3     11.7                      T
Current account balance/GDP                -11.4    -4.7      -5.8      -5.9      os      
Interest paymentsWGDP                       0.3      0.8       0.8       0 8           ic             '      Investment
Total debtVGDP                             34.0    82.7       561       58       Sa,6gs
Total debt servicelexports                  2.5      71       16.1      171
Present value of debt/GDP                                     35.0      363                       1
Present value of debt/exports                                218.3    2210
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1998      1999   1999408
(aveage annual growth)
GDP                                3.1      4.6      4.5       5.0       5.3          Bemn  ---Lowincomegroup
GNP per capita                     0.5      0.9      2.5        1.9      2.7
Exports of goods and services      -2.9     0.8    12.9       t6 0       4.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989       1998     1999    Growth oflnvestmentandGDPI%)
(X of GDP)                                                                       e
Agriculture                                35.0    37.9       38.6      37.9    So T
Industry                                   13.3    12.8       13.5      13.8    1
Manufacturing                              8.9      7.8       8.2      8.3    20
Services                                   51.7    49.4       47.9      48.3
-20 +   w    95   ff9  97   99   99
Private consumption                        91.6    85.5       83.8      83.5   w40 -
General govemment consumption               8.0     11.1       9.7      10.1             -GD1 -f -GDP
Imports of goods and services              27.1    22.2       27.8      28.0
197949  1989-99      1998      1999     Grow  of exports and imports (%)
(average anual g9tDWh)                                                          I
Agriculture                                 4.6      5.2       6.7       4.7       T
Industry                                    4.2      4.1       0.9       3.2    40
Manufacturing                              5.1      5.8       3.0       6.5    20
Services                                    1.9      4.2       3.8       5.8
Private consumption                         1.3      4.8       5.2       1.7                      95      -  so   99
General govemment consumption               2.0      3.2      -4.6      11,6
Gross domestic investment                   -6.4     6.9       3.3       6.7   -40
Imports of goods and services               -7.5     3.4       7.0       4.0             -Exports   -C-Imports
Gross national product                      2.6      4.7       5.3       4.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 41 -
Benin
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1S79    1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domnestc prices 
(X change)
Consumer prices                            10.9      4.8       5.8      0.3    4
Implicit GDP deflator                      13.0      2.2       4.2      2.1     2
Government finance                                                              1e
(% of GOP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                             13.0     8.0      15.5      16.1           94   95   96   97   90   93
Current budget balance                     -9.0    -6.6        4.8      5.1            -GDPdenator    CP1
Overall surplustdeficit                    -2.4   -12.0       -1.1     -1.2                        t
TRADE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Export and import levels (USS mlii.)
(US$ millionsr)
Total exports (fob)                          45      92        239      236    x
Cotton                                     29       66       202      194
Crude Oil                                   1       21         2        0
Manufactures                                6       29        35       42    300
Total imports (of)                          320     223        451      461    200.        dd
Food                                       80       58       138      141
Fuel and energy                            34       23        64       59  1_
Capital goods                             206      123       253      258       o
93  94  95  96  97  96  96
Export prlem hdex (I995=100)                 ..      62        102       94
Importpriieindex(1995=100)                    ..     65        106      107                * Exports    mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..       96        96       88
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ milltons)                             1979    1989       1998     l99      Currant account balance to GDP 4%)
Exports of goods and services               176     302        399      397      0
Imports of goods and services               384     428       642       665
Resource balance                           -208    -126       -243     -267     -2
-4
Net income                                    1   -38  -13  -18    I                              1111
Net currenttransfers                         71      93        123      145      6
Current account balance                    -135      -71      -133     -141      -a121
Financing items (net)                       132      174       142      148    _10
Changes in net reserves                       3    -103         -9       -7    -12
Jemo:
Reserves including gold (USS milions)       14       3        296      319
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)           212.7   319.0      590.0    614.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(USS mwiions)                                                                   Comnposition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        403    1,242     1,360    1,350
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0
IDA                                        40     253       547       515
Total debt service                            7       26        37       67           E: 380
IBRD                                        0       0         0         0
IDA                                         0       3         9        10                                   s:547
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            36     116        79        96
Ofricial creditors                         48 126 16 16 .
Private creditors                         106       0         0         0                V-
Foreign direct investment                   4       1         11       19 9
Portfolio equity                            0       0          0        0
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 0      77        21        26     A IBRD                     E- ilateral
Disbursements                               6      48         18       18     B-IDA    D-OOthermulbiateral  F-Pnvate
Princpal repayments                         0       1          5        6     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                    6      47         13       12
Interest payments                           0       2         4         4
Net transfers                               5      45          9        8
Development Economics                                                                                           12t18/00



Annex 5
- 42 -
Benin - Status of Bank Group Operdtions (Operations Portfolio)
Closed Projects   38
AdNe LFv ects                                                                                                                  D     1erence Between
Last PSR                                                             Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating                      Orkignal Amount in tSS Millions     Disburewemnts
Project ID    ProjectN                       Dlont INaiston   Fiscal Year  IDA   GRANT   Cancel.  LUndls                         Orig.  Fnm Red
P000120      RURALCREDITII                       U               U             1993      3.8       0        0         0.5         0.5        0.5
P000103      EDUCATIONDEVELOPMEN                 S               S             1994      18        0        0         6.8         7.2        7.1
P000121      RuRAL WATER SPPLY&                  S               S             1994      9.8       0        0         2.3         2.5        2.5
P000112      ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ               HS               S             1995       8        0        0         3.7         3.1          3
P0118        POPULATION AND HEALT                S               S             1996      28        0        0        13.5          17         17
P000117      TRANSPORT SECTOR                    S               S             1997      40        0        0        15.3        13.2          0
P057345      BORGOU PILOT RSP                   HS              HS             1998       4        0        0         2.6         1.8          0
P035645      SOCIAL FUN)                         S               S             1998      17        0        0        10.7        -0.4       -2.8
P035648      1STDECEN.ClTYMGMT.                  S              HS             1999      26        0        0        23.4         8.7          0
P067329       aistce Leaniing Prqed - UL         S               S            2000       1.8       0        0         1.7        13.9         0
P070204      Lbor Force Devekpet Pojec           S               U             2000       5        0        0           5         0.2          0
P037580      NAT PARK(S CONS.& MGT               S               S             2000       0       6.8       0         6.2          0           0
P039882      PRIVATE SECTOR                      S               S             2000      30        0        0        27A         -1.3          0
Total    191       6.8       0       119.1        66.3       27.4



Annex 5
- 43 -
Benin - Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 9/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                  Disbursed
FY Approval Company          Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1991/93/95  AEF BOAB            0       0  0.02     0    0       0  0.02     0
1995 AEF Union Benin     0   0.08     0     0    0   0.08      0      0
1994 Equipbail-Benin     0    0.1     0     0    0    0.1      0     0
Total Portfolio:         0   0.18  0.02     0    0   0.18  0.02      0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1999 SOBAC               0  79.22     0     0
2000 FINADEV             0 352.98      0     0
Total Pending Commitment:     0  432.2      0     0



44-                               Annex 6
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY
I - INTRODUCTION
1. With a view to rehabilitating and boosting its economy, Benin has maintained ties with the
Bretton Woods institutions since 1989, underwriting a number of programs and receiving various
kinds of financial assistance. Following a series of macroeconomic and sectoral reforms
associated with the 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc, Benin has embarked on a course of
strong and sustainable economic growth.
2. This development policy letter for 2001-2003 outlines the core components of Benin's
development policy, focusing on budget reform geared to making public expenditure more
effective and productive in terms of the overall goal of poverty reduction.
1I - PERFORMANCE OF MACROECONOMIC AND SOCIAL INDICATORS IN
BENIN FROM 1994 TO 1999
3. Since the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994, Benin has intensified its economic
and financial reforms, first to take full advantage of its increased competitiveness as a result of
the devaluation, and, second, to lay the foundations for strong and sustainable economic growth.
Structural and sectoral reforms
4. With an economic program backed by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund,
Benin has set about implementing various structural and/or sectoral reforms. They include:
- Reform of public finances by overhauling the fiscal system, streamlining public expenditure,
and reining in the public sector wage bill;
- Reform of state-owned enterprises based on divestment of state ownership and improved
management of those enterprises remaining in the State's portfolio;
- Restructuring of the banking system and flexibility in monetary policy;
- Reform of the agricultural sector, especially in redefining the role and extent of state
involvement, and in developing a strategy for the cotton subsector;
-  Promotion of the private sector through deregulation of the economy, the opening up of new
branches of economic activity, and improvements in the regulatory, legal, and taxation
framework;
-  Institutional reforms designed to create a more efficient public administration and to facilitate
subregional integration.



- 45 -
Impacted by all these reforms, Benin's economic and financial indicators improved over the
period under review.
Economic and financial performance
5. Overall, and particularly since 1994, Benin's economic and financial performance has proved
to be satisfactory. Growth has averaged approximately 5.0 percent a year in real terms, with
inflation kept to an average of 3.7 percent per year, once relative prices were adjusted in the
wake of the devaluation of the CFA franc in 1994. Economic growth has been driven by the
upturn in both consumption and investment, as well as exports. Investment has averaged 17
percent of GDP, thanks to the combination of the increase in public investment and the recovery
of private investment. For their part, total exports increased 20 percent in value terms over the
period, largely due to the approximately 32.5 percent increase in cotton product exports between
1995 and 1999.
6. Public finances recovered rapidly, with the annual primary surplus averaging 3.3 percent.
Fiscal revenue rose markedly from 11 percent of GDP in 1994 to 16 percent of GDP in 1999,
thanks above all to the strengthening of tax and customs administration, as well as efforts to
expand the tax base. The overall budget deficit (cash basis), which was equal to 9 percent of
GDP in 1994, narrowed each year until stabilizing at around 3 percent of GDP in 1999. Another
indicator of continuous improvement in public finances is the net position of the Government,
which has moved from a deficit of CFAF 21 billion in 1994 to a surplus of approximately CFAF
62 billion in 1999, equivalent to roughly two months of expenditure.
7. Finally, Benin's banking system has been rehabilitated and restructured. Five essentially
privately owned banks provide financial intermediation services. Within the West African
Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), Benin's banking system stands out as one of the
soundest and most creditworthy. It ranks first in terms of cross-border claims and third in terms
of reserves and private sector deposits. In terms of portfolio quality, it is one of the two top
banking systems in the WAEMU zone.
Performance of social indicators
8. Despite these satisfactory macroeconomic outcomes and progress on the social sector front,
Benin is still one of the poorest countries in the world. While analysis of Benin's social
indicators shows that they are improving, almost half the population of the country lived in
poverty in 1998. Almost 30 percent of the population were likely to die before reaching 40 years
of age. Life expectancy at birth was 53 years and the infant mortality rate was 88 per 1000 live
births. As late as 1998, the adult illiteracy rate was 62 percent. The enrollment rate for boys of
primary school age was 98 percent compared to only 57 percent for girls. In the 1994-1999
period, finally, approximately 40 percent of the population of Benin lacked safe drinking water,
54 percent had no access to health care, and 69 percent lived in unhealthy conditions.



- 46 -
9. In short, while the economic and financial policies pursued made it possible to achieve
satisfactory macroeconomic results, those policies and outcomes have not managed to make a
significant impact on poverty in Benin. The steps taken to redistribute growth, and especially
social sector expenditure, more equitably among the population, have not always proved as
effective as was hoped, mainly because of the difficulty of getting the measures through to the
target populations and because so little use is made of impact indicator analysis. Furthermore,
several socio-economic programs or projects pursued during this period turned out to be unviable
or of little use, due, among other reasons, to insufficient involvement of local beneficiary groups
in planning and follow-up. As a result, Benin has started to draw up a comprehensive poverty
reduction strategy to correct these shortcomings and incorporate all facets of development.
10. This strategy will rely on macroeconomic stability and, especially, strong economic growth
benefiting the population and allowing it to both raise productive capacity and reduce
vulnerability. Such a strategy must also provide appropriate responses to grassroots social
demands, particularly in terms of education, health, basic infrastructure, and employment, as
well as address environmental and women's issues. Finally, the strategy must be coherent and
be drawn up by the Government with the effective participation of civil society, a cross-section
of the different strata in the population, nongovernmental organizations, and development
partners. Civil society and development partners will shortly be notified of the terms of
reference, participatory mechanisms, and schedule for drawing up the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper. Given that a stable financial environment and fast growth are prerequisites for
achieving the poverty reduction objective, Benin intends to continue applying an economic and
financial reform program.
THE ECONOMIC PROGRAM FOR 2001 - 2003
11. The Government of Benin is convinced that it is crucial to continue and to intensify the
macroeconomic and structural policies being pursued today, both in order to preserve what has
already been achieved and to ensure the strong and sustainable growth needed to combat
poverty effectively.
Macroeconomic and social targets
12. The macroeconomic targets underlying Benin's program for the next three years are: a real
rate of economic growth of at least 5 to 6 percent a year; an investment rate reaching 20 percent
of GDP; inflation of approximately 3 percent; and a current account deficit in the balance of
payments equivalent to approximately 6 percent of GDP. The target for public finances
envisages an overall budget deficit of approximately 4 percent of GDP; possibly higher if (i)
concessional foreign funding is available, (ii) the need for and contents of expenditure items are
duly substantiated, (iii) project execution capacities are reinforced; and (iv) the macroeconomic
repercussions are sustainable.
13. With respect to the social sectors, the Government's objective is to bring about a substantial
improvement in the main social indicators. To that end, it has instructed that a Poverty Reduction
Strategy be prepared incorporating budgetary allocations compatible with the Government's



- 47 -
social objectives. To attain those goals, it will continue to base development strategy on a tight
budgetary policy, strengthening of the reforms geared to streamlining the budgeting system,
prudent monetary policy coordinated with that of the other Member States in WAEMU,
acceleration of the structural and sectoral reforms under way, and active participation in regional
integration initiatives.
Structural and sectoral reforms
14. Since 1990, Benin has opted to pursue liberal economic policies and has, consequently,
undertaken to promote the private sector. To that end, the State will aim to improve the
institutional, regulatory, and legal framework for business. It will continue to enhance economic
infrastructure, both qualitatively and quantitatively. It will also continue to deregulate the
economy by eliminating price controls; by divesting itself as best it can of its productive
activities, above all by privatizing state-owned companies in the industrial and commercial
sectors; and by opening up the various different branches of Benin's economy to competition.
15. By the same token, by 2001 the Government will complete the process of state withdrawal
from public enterprises in the telecommunications, power, water, and cotton sectors. In the
transport subsector, preparations are under way for a Joint Benin-Niger Railway and Transport
Organization (OCBN) concession; for selection of a private enterprise to run the Cotonou
airport; and for private sector involvement in management of the Autonomous Port in Cotonou,
with a view to improving performance and making sure that it is competitive. In this same
subsector, the Government will focus on upkeep and development of road infrastructure, thereby
facilitating not only economic activity but also the population's access to basic social services
and the opening up of rural areas.
16. In agriculture, the Government intends to foster diversification of national produce, by
creating the right conditions for new lines to emerge or develop, especially pineapple, cassava,
cashew nuts, palm oil, and peanuts. It also considers that raising small farmers' income will
have a significant impact in reducing pockets of rural and urban poverty. Consequently it
intends to make the growth and diversification of agricultural output, and safeguards for farmers'
income, lynchpins of its poverty reduction strategy.
17. In the particular case of the cotton subsector, which is practically the only organized branch
of the economy, the Government is determined to complete the reforms under way. These
reforms aim to (i) deregulate the sector and foster competition among the different stakeholders,
(ii) ensure a regulatory role for the State, guaranteeing that the established rules are respected,
(iii) increase national output and small farmer incomes, as well as the responsibility and
capability of producer organizations.
18. Already, a major reform has been enacted in the cotton subsector with the elimination of the
monopoly of the National Agricultural Promotion Company (Societe Nationale pour la
Promotion Agricole, SONAPRA) over primary marketing of cottonseed. Accompanying that



- 48 -
measure, work is being done in the sector to make the Interprofessional Cotton Association
(Association Interprofessionnelle de Coton, AIC) and the Payments and Debt Collection Unit
(Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et des Recouvrements, CSPR) operational. With regard
to opening up SONAPRA equity to additional investors, the Government is reviewing the
various options and will decide on a definitive arrangement after consulting with the corporation.
19. As regards institutional reforms, the Government will continue reform of the civil service
and expedite decentralization policy, both of which are viewed as integral parts of the poverty
reduction strategy. Aware, too, of the negative impact of corruption on economic growth and
poverty, the Government has taken various steps, which have led to better governance. Those
actions will be boosted, especially by the adoption and implementation of a national anti-
corruption strategy forged with the participation of all sectors of society. This strategy includes
strengthening the judiciary and administrative and budgetary controls, enactment of a law on ill-
gotten gains, and the preparation and dissemination through all the directorates in the public
administration of manuals of procedures and user guides. In the specific case of public finance,
the government will continue implementing the budget reform begun in 1999.
BUDGET REFORM
20.   With a view to enhancing the effectiveness of public expenditures within a framework of
transparent management, the Government of Benin has launched a thorough reform of its budget
system. The reform focuses in particular on the following:
- Improving the preparation of the national budget through more systematic recourse to
program budgets within a Medium Term Expenditure Framework and to monitoring
indicators of program budget execution and impact indicators.
Unified budgets and performance budgets will be prepared to allow optimal resource
allocation. In addition, the increased use of performance indicators will facilitate precise
measurements of the impact of public expenditures on the population, particularly in the
social sphere. The budget reform process will thus provide the Government with the
wherewithal to evaluate and enhance the impact of its social programs on poverty reduction.
Utilizing programn budgets will facilitate negotiations within and between sectors, especially
in the Council of Ministers, by providing data and analyses drawn from program evaluations
and indicator results.
- Strengthening budget execution by:
giving spending ministries more responsibility through, inter alia, devolution of payment
order authorization and reporting obligations (ongoing preparation of quarterly reports on
budget execution, yearly budget execution accounts (Compte Administratif), and the financial
accounts (Compte de gestion), and preparation and transmittal of final accounts laws (Loi de
reglement)to Parliament);
strengthening control through improved internal and external audit arrangements (by
strengthening the Financial Audit Division [Contr6le Financier], the Internal Audit and
Inspection Directorates (Directions de la Verification et de lI'nspection Interne], the



- 49 -
Chamber of Accounts [Chambre des Comptes], and through recourse to other external
auditors);
improving and disseminating procedures, including the newly adopted government
procurement code, which incorporates full guarantees of transparency.
21.   To supplement these reforms, the Government will pursue its capacity building efforts in
the civil service by increasing the number of staff, providing additional material resources, and
offering various training programs. The budget for 2001 includes sufficient resources to
accomplish these goals.
Performance Budgeting
22.   The major innovations affecting budget preparation are the use of performance budgets,
the medium-term expenditure program (CDMT), and monitoring and evaluation. As to budget
performance in particular, the Government will prepare a three-year medium-term expenditure
program based on sectoral strategies. The program will be discussed annually with Parliament.
In particular, the 2002-2004 expenditure program will be submitted simultaneously with the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper currently in preparation.
23.   Program  budgets will be prepared jointly by the Programming and Forecasting
Directorates (Directions de la programmation et de la prospective, DPPs) and the Directorate of
Administration (Direction de l'Administration, DA), the first of these being the lead agency.
The Programming and Forecasting Directorates will be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating programs within the relevant ministries. The Directorates will prepare quarterly and
annual reports on the financial and physical execution of their program budgets. The annual
reports will also evaluate the indicators used. The reports will be published at most three months
after the end of the quarter or year in question.
24.   The Government recognizes that its institutional capacity and staffing will have to be
strengthened in order to improve program budget preparation and ensure satisfactory monitoring
and evaluation. Accordingly, as from the first quarter of 2001 it will implement a major capacity
building program. With improved budget preparation in mind, the DPPs and DAs will require
additional material resources and properly trained staff, goals which will be achieved through
redeployment and training activities. These agencies will receive assistance from the National
Planning and Forecasting Directorate (Direction Nationale du Plan et de la Prospective) and the
Budget Preparation Directorate (Direction de la Preparation du Budget), which should also be
strengthened. As to monitoring and evaluation, the capacity building programn will facilitate:
-  evaluation of program performance in alignment with approved program budgets;
- useful feedback for program planning and management; and
- systematic and useful rendering of accounts on the basis of reliable performance reports.
The initial quarterly reports will be prepared with the active assistance of sector specialists, who
will spend approximately three months in the relevant ministries. These experts will also help
establish monitoring and evaluation arrangements.



- 50 -
Budget management
25.   The key to the reform process is the principle that the payment order authorization
function should be delegated further in order to increase ministerial responsibility, the aim being
to produce better outcomes. To this end the Government will introduce a new expenditure
process beginning in 2001.
Objectives of the new expenditure process
26.   The new expenditure process will facilitate budget unity during both the preparation and
execution stages. It will also make it possible to correct the shortcomings of the current process,
namely:
-  slow task execution and redundant controls;
- unreliable monitoring of the execution of budget operations;
-  a shortage of up-to-date data on the status of the national budget; and
- manual, centralized execution of government expenditures.
Description of the new expenditure process
27.   With the introduction of the new expenditure process, the mandates and responsibilities
of all the actors in the expenditure chain have been redefined. Henceforth these actors will be
the appropriations officer, the designated appropriations administrator, the designated
authorizing officer, the Controller, and the government accountant.
Appropriations officers
28.   If expenditures are to be effective, the heads of administrative units or project managers,
called appropriations officers, must be responsible for initiating their units' expenditures.
Accordingly, appropriations officers will prepare commitment requests and forward them to the
Director of Administration (Directeur d'Administration), who will pass the request on in his
capacity as appropriations administrator. Appropriations officers will also be responsible for
accepting delivery of goods and services and for certifying service delivery. Expenditure
documentation will then be dispatched to the Director of Administration for validation and
authorization of the expenditure.
Appropriations administrators and authorizing officers
29.   In keeping with the guidelines of the West African Economic and Monetary Union
(WAEMU) on public accounting, the Minister of Finance serves as the sole authorizing officer in
respect of the national budget and the other ministers administer appropriations for their
respective departments. The desire to fully involve the sectoral ministries in public expenditure



- 51 -
execution led to the deconcentration of both the commitment and authorization processes.
Accordingly, Directors of Administration will henceforth wear two hats, serving both as
designated appropriations administrators in their capacity as representatives of the spending
ministry, and as payment order authorizing officers of the relevant ministry, so delegated by the
Ministry of Finance. Thus, the sectoral ministries will be authorized to make expenditure
commitments and to validate and authorize their expenditures under the recurrent budget and the
capital budget, under the supervision of the Directorate-General of the Budget (Direction
Generale du Budget, DGB) following approval by a designee of the controller.
Automation of the expenditure process
30.   Given the magnitude of the country's budgetary operations and the need for large amount
of updated data, a software application - the Integrated Budget Execution Management System
(Systeme Integre de Gestion des Finances Publiques, SIGFIP) - has been introduced with a view
to streamlining the management of revenue and expenditure estimates and execution for the
Govermnent's general budget and the Special Treasury Accounts. This application, which will
be operational in January 2001, will automate the management of the entire general budget and
will facilitate data dissemination and transparency.
31.   The application is an adaptation of the Ivorian SIGFIP, which has been in use for the past
two years. Based on Cote d'Ivoire's experience and tests in Benin, the system has been adapted
to take the following into account:
- the new budgetary structure, including the introduction of program budgets;
-  introduction of a simplified procedure codifying the operation of revolving funds in
accordance with sound financial management rules; and
- the maintenance of budget regulation capabilities where special circumstances so warrant.
32.   The system will be launched with the assistance of a team of Ivorian experts in order to
prevent or resolve any problems that might arise. The Government has promised it will spare no
effort to ensure the success of the computer system. Data will initially be entered on computers
at the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The sectoral ministries and project and departmental
offices will be connected gradually as the network is expanded.
33.  In order to ensure the success of all these reforms, the institutional capacity of all
ministries will be strengthened through internal and external training meeting specific
requirements. Procedural manuals have been prepared to train the various actors and support the
series of training seminars to be organized for participants in the expenditure process. This will
be an ongoing program.
34.   The Directorate-General of the Budget of the Ministry of Finance and Economy is
responsible for developing and implementing the capacity building program.



- 52 -
Measures regarding procurement
35.   With the support of its development partners, the Government has been working for a
number of years to introduce a legal and regulatory framework for government procurement,
efforts which have culminated in the adoption of a government procurement code. Early in
2000, following issuance of the instruments implementing the ordinance on the public
procurement code, the National Procurement Commission (Commission nationale des marches
publics, CNMP) and its Permanent Secretariat were established and became operational.
36.   The Commission's mandate may be summarized as follows:
- to examine and approve bidding specifications and bidding documents prepared by the
beneficiary ministry in order to ensure that they are consistent with existing regulations; and
- to consider and approve the report of the technical committee responsible for reviewing
contract management bids in order to ensure that it is consistent with existing regulations.
37.   Following a delay in launching the National Procurement Comrnission, all contracts -
irrespective of the financing source - are now submitted for review by the Commission.
38.   In 2001 the Government will publish all bidding invitations and bid results, including
proposed prices, award criteria, and awards made. The decision to proceed in this manner is a
complement to measures already adopted to increase the transparency of government
procurement award procedures. By 2003 at the latest the Government will also create a
publication devoted to government procurement data. The program to disseminate the manual of
procedures for government procurement will continue in 2001, as will efforts to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the major actors (project leaders, DAs, DPPs, the National Procurement
Commission, and the Permanent Secretariat responsible for government procurement).
39.   Similarly, to minimize the constraints it faces and enhance its efficiency in procurement
matters, the Government has adopted the principle of turning to delegated contracting agencies
for infrastructure works and encouraging the establishment of additional similar agencies.
40.   The Government also plans to create a dynamic database of reference prices to facilitate
consideration of unit costs.
Monitoring and auditing systems
41.   The importance of the budget reform process under way in Benin calls for improved
internal monitoring throughout the expenditure chain. Measures will therefore be taken to
improve the effectiveness of all internal monitoring and auditing systems with a view to enabling
the State to embrace modern and effective governance. Accordingly, by June 2001 the
Government, by preparing a program of action including a timetable for completion, will
improve internal monitoring arrangements concerning the Financial Audit Division (CF)2, the
2 The Controller Division is, a priori, closely involved at various stages: expenditure commitment, verification of
service delivery/or delivery of goods worth over CFAF 500,000, and payment authorization.



- 53 -
Internal Audit and Inspection Directorates3 (DIVIs), and the Office of the General Inspectorate
of Finance (Inspection Generale des Finances, IGF)4. The improvements should enable these
entities to develop adequate human and financial resources, enhance their mastery of their
programs, and play their role fully and with the utmost effectiveness and coherence.
42.   Existing instruments governing the various internal monitoring functions of the
expenditure chain will be amended as needed to improve the coherence of the monitoring
function and adapt it to budget reform objectives. An increase in the budget of these internal
monitoring bodies should help alleviate their current shortage of financial and material resources.
New staff will be recruited as needed to provide these bodies with skilled personnel and thus
enhance monitoring quality as they expand their programs of action.
43.   In addition to the measures described above, which are designed to facilitate capacity
building in internal auditing bodies, training activities targeting all staff are also essential in
order to ensure that these bodies function efficiently. Besides the technical assistance already
being provided to the Chamber of Accounts, ongoing staff training in IGF is needed so that the
Office can discharge its ex-post internal audit function in respect of budget execution. DIVI staff
will receive proper training to enable the Directorates to adapt to the expanded work program.
44.   The Chamber of Accounts is the external auditor for the national budget and the
Government's yearly budget execution accounts (Compte Administratif , the accounts of public
enterprises, and those of other public bodies. It is a Chamber of the Supreme Court of Benin. In
accordance with WAEMU directives, in 2001 the Government will adopt measures within its
authority to transform the Chamber of Accounts into a completely independent Court of
Accounts (Cour des Comptes), with skilled staff and a sufficient budget. In the meantime, the
Government will begin strengthening the Chamber of Accounts, focusing on human and
financial resources and training activities. This should enable the institution to extend its
auditing activities to budget execution performance in the pilot ministries. The details of the
performance audits and training activities of the Chamber of Accounts for FY 2001 and 2002
have been set out in a commitment protocol between the Government and the World Bank, and
the protocol will be kept up to date.
45.   The National Assembly is in the process of strengthening the capacity and level of
expertise of its Finance Commission to analyze, comment on, and monitor the national budget.
A donor is providing the Commission with support for this purpose.
Overallperformance indicators
46.   To complete its work on a performance-based budget management system, the
Government decided to establish overall performance indicators to measure overall system
improvement with respect to effectiveness, reliability, and transparency. The indicators listed
below have been identified, and will be used to calculate measurements for the first six months
of the year and for the entire year. Target figures for these indicators for the next three years are
3 The DIVIs are internal monitoring bodies focusing only on the ministries to which they are attached. They are
responsible for systematic ex-post audits.
4 IGF is the ex-post auditing body of the Ministry of Finance and has nationwide power to audit the management of
public funds. It monitors the activity of the actors in the expenditure chain.



- 54 -
presented below to serve as benchmarks for monitoring future improvements in budget
performance.
47. The time required for procurement is defined as the average period, weighted by the
contract price, between the closing date for receipt of bids and the date on which the successful
bidder is notified. The new government procurement manual of procedures has established the
following objectives:
- supplies - 47 days;
- services and minor construction -.55 days; and
- major works - 70 days.
For 2000 the periods were calculated only for contracts financed by external credits, which
are often longer given the need for "non-objections" from the various donors. Average time for
procurement was calculated to be eight months.
Starting in 2001 the Permanent Secretariat of CNMP will calculate these periods for all
contracts. The Govenment plans to reduce the average periods below the following thresholds:
- domestically financed contracts: 80 days in 2001, 70 days in 2002, and 60 days in 2003; and
- externally financed contracts: seven months in 2001, six months in 2002, and five months in
2003.
The actual periods will be evaluated bearing in mind the "non-objection" procedure
involving donors.
48.   The time required for payment is defined as the average period, weighted by the
payment amount, between the date on which the contractor or service provider submits his
invoice and the date on which payment is made. This period has three components: (1) the
period between the date on which the contractor requests payment and the date of validation by
the spending ministry; (2) the period between validation and receipt by the Treasury; and (3) the
period between receipt by the Treasury and disbursement of the payment to the recipient. The
average unweighted period in 1999 and 2000 was approximately 30 days. The new target
periods are as follows: 25 days in 2001, 20 days in 2002, and 15 days in 2003.
49.   Publication of results of contract awards. The Government has decided to publish the
results of all contract awards. The target indicator is therefore 100 percent for 2001, 2002, and
2003.
50.   Execution ratio measured by comparing the executed budget with the approved
budget. The indicator is defined on the basis of the entire consolidated budget. For the entire
consolidated national budget, the estimated execution ratio for 2000 is 81 percent. For each of
the pilot ministries, the target is 90 percent in 2001 and 95 percent in 2002 and 2003.
51.   Budget execution reports submitted by the five pilot ministries (including reports on
program execution and indicators). The ministries have submitted partial reports covering



- 55 -
execution during the first semester of 2000 and will file complete reports covering the entire
year. The indicator observed for each year will be based on submission of a first-semester report
indicating financial and physical budget execution results broken down by program and an
annual report showing the results, again by program, for financial and physical execution, results
in relation to indicators, and results evaluation. The reports for the first semester will be made
available by end September at the latest. The annual reports will be made available by March 31
of the following year. The desired target for the years to come is for 100 percent of the
ministries with program budgets to submit two satisfactory reports annually.
52.   In conclusion, Benin will implement a set of measures over the next three years to enable
it to consolidate its macroeconomic position and thus wage a more effective fight against
poverty. It will also implement its poverty reduction strategy. Rules and procedures relating to
the budget process will receive special attention. This is truly the appropriate course of action to
increase the effectiveness of government expenditures and, consequently, to increase their
impact on the population. The Government requests the support of the World Bank in order to
assist with the budget reform effort and the economic reforms already under way, and to enable
the country to increase its capacity to meet the social needs of its inhabitants.
Abdoulaye Bio-Tchane
Minister of Finance and Economy
December 20, 2000
Cotonou, Benin



Annex 7
- 56 -
Benin PERAC Task Team
Country Director: Antoinette Sayeh
Sector Manager: Charles Humphreys
Resident Representative: Sidi Boubacar
Task Team Leader: Pierre Demangel
Macroeconomics Team: Claude Leroy-Themeze, Michel Devaux, Mouhamadou Drame
Education Team: Ousmane Diagana, Michael Wilson
Health Team: Francois Decaillet, Caroline Cederlof
Transport Team: Hedi Larbi,
Urban Team: Hedi Larbi, Allison Cave
Rural Development Team: Ousmane Badiane, Nicolas Ahouissoussi, Michel Aklamavo
Environment Team: Michel Simeon, Remi Kini
Institutional Team: Catherine Laurent
Operational Quality and Knowledge Management: Bertrand de Chazal, Asha Ayoung
Lawyer: Jean-Charles de Daruvar
Senior Financial Management Specialist: Agnes Albert-Loth
Quality Reviewers: Shantayanan Devarajan, Ernesto May, Ian Bannon, Frederick Kilby
Task Team Assistant: Marta Berhane



