                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 28072

                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (IDA-34790 IDA-34791)

                                   ON A

                   CREDIT AND A SUPPLEMENTAL CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.6 MILLION AND SDR 7.8 MILLION

                (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT RESPECTIVELY)

                                  TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF BENIN

                                   FOR A

            PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM




                               March 31, 2004




POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT (AFTP3)
AFRICA REGION


                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective March 2004)

                                    Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                            1 SDR = US$ = 1.46472
                                            US$ 1 = CFAF 528.9

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -      December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB:     African Development Bank
BCEAO:    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Central Bank of West
          African States)
CAS:      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF:      Comprehensive Development Framework
CFAA:     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAF:     Franc de la Communauté Financière de l'Afrique (African Financial
          Community Franc)
CPAR:     Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSPR:     Centrale de Sécurisation des Paiements et du Recouvrement (Autonomous Agency in charge of
          overseeing seed cotton marketing and facilitating input credit recovering)
DANIDA:   Danish International Development Agency
DIVI:     Directorate of Internal Verification and Inspection
ESAF:     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU:       European Union
GDP:      Gross Domestic Product
GIF:      General Inspectorate of Finance
HIPC:     Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV:      Human Immuno Deficiency Virus
IBRD:     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
I-CAS:    Interim Country Assistance Strategy
IDA:      International Development Association
IFC:      International Finance Corporation
IMF:      International Monetary Fund
MIGA:     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOF:      Ministry of Finance
MTEF:     Medium-Tern Expenditure Framework
NEAP:     National Environmental Action Plan
NGO:      Non-Govermmental Organization
OHADA:    Organisation pour l'Harmonisation du Droit des Affaires en Afrique
          (Organization for the Harmonization of Commercial Laws in Africa)
PAC:      Port Autonome de Cotonou (Port of Cotonou)
PERAC:    Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit
PIP:      Public Investment Program
PRSP:     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC:     Pverty Reduction Support Credit
PRGF:     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SIGFIP:   Integrated Computer System for Budget Management
SONAPRA:  Société Nationale de Promotion Agricole (National Company for Agricultural Promotion)
WAEMU:    West African Economic and Monetary Union

                 Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
             Country Director:    Diarietou Gaye
               Sector Manager:    Cadman A. Mills
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Claude Leroy-Thémèze

                                            BENIN
                        Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Government's Contribution                                               30
Annex 9. Progress in Implementing the PERAC, 2000-03                             40
Annex 10. PERAC: Overall Budget Management Indicators, 2000-02                   41

Project ID: P061577                                                  Project Name: PERAC
Team Leader: Claude Leroy-Themeze                                    TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 31, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PERAC                                                    L/C/TF Number: IDA-34790; IDA-34791
   Country/Department: BENIN                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (80%); Health (5%); General
                            transportation sector (5%); General education sector (5%); General
                            agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (5%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Other accountability/anti-corruption (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/21/2000                                     Effective: 07/18/2001                08/30/2001
     Appraisal: 09/15/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/22/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF BENIN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY
                      Other Partners:      African Development Bank and European Union.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Diariétou Gaye (Acting)                        Théodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Cadman Atta Mills                              Charles Humphreys
Team Leader at ICR:             Claude Leroy-Thémèze                           Pierre Demangel
ICR Primary Author:             Xavier de la Renaudière
                                (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Economic context. Benin is a small low-income country with a per capita income of US$380.
Over one third of the population lives in poverty with inadequate access to health care, education and other
social services. The agricultural sector contributes over one third of GDP and employs two thirds of the
population. Cotton, the main cash crop, accounts for about 80 percent of domestic exports. The large
share of services ­ close to 50 percent of GDP ­ partly reflects Benin's role as a transport and transit hub
for landlocked Sahelian countries and Nigeria.

3.1.2. Major progress has been achieved during the 1990s in terms of economic growth, fiscal
performance and social development:

        -     Liberalization and privatization policies provided an environment increasingly
              favorable to private sector-led growth. The 1994 devaluation restored the country's
              external competitiveness and modest rates of inflation (3.8 percent from 1996 to 2000)
              helped maintain the real effective exchange rate at an appropriate level. Real GDP
              growth increased to above 5 percent since 1995.

        -     Government revenue increased from 9.4 percent of GDP in 1989 to 16 percent in 1999.
              At the same time public expenditures shrank from 20 to 17.6 percent due to a reduction
              in the size of the civil service and limited salary increases after the devaluation. The
              overall government deficit was reduced from 10.6 to 1.6 percent of GDP during the
              1989-1999 period.

        -     Investments in social sectors improved access to health and education services and
              several social indicators (life expectancy, maternal and infant mortality, primary school
              enrollment rates) improved markedly during the 1990s.

3.1.3. Description of Objectives. The original objectives of the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment
Credit were to:

        (i) increase the impact of government expenditures on economic development and poverty
              reduction;

        (ii) improve governance by providing a transparent budgeting system linking allocations to
              well-conceived sector strategies and explicit program objectives;

        (iii) strengthen the government's administrative capacity to manage public expenditures
              effectively; and

        (iv) establish a fiduciary framework enabling the provision of external financial assistance.


3.1.4. The Credit was based on a set of institutional reforms and capacity building efforts aimed at
reaching these objectives, including:

        (i) reform of the budget preparation system through the use of performance budgeting;

        (ii) strengthening the administrative capacity for budget execution and reporting;

        (iii) improved fiduciary framework (procurement, financial management and auditing of
              budget execution); and

        (iv) monitoring and evaluation techniques to evaluate the outcomes of public expenditures.



                                                      - 2 -

         Implementation of the program was based on the selection of 5 key economic and social sector
         ministries ­ controlling a high percentage of total public expenditures ­ which would develop,
         implement, monitor and evaluate program budgets and initiate a management-by-results process.

         Future budgets were expected to promote and reward efficiency and increase the share of key
         ministries ­ in line with the objectives of a Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper (PRSP) under
         preparation.

         A Memorandum of Understanding between the Government and the World Bank identified
         specific measures to be taken by the government (additional staff, training programs and other
         resources) aimed at: (i) creating effective M&E capacity in key ministries and (ii) developing the
         capacity of the country's supreme audit institution (Chamber of Accounts) to perform audits of
         program-budgets.



3.1.5. Assessment of objectives. The program was justified by the progress achieved during the 1990s
towards sound macroeconomic and fiscal policies and the need to deepen the reform process by improving
the programming and execution of public expenditures in key economic and social sectors. With hindsight,
however, the following observations can be made about the concept and the timing of the PERAC program.

        -  Ownership of the reform. The ownership of the program was based on the strong
           commitment of a few key executives but was not shared by a majority of participating
           institutions.  Clearly the Finance Minister and some of his close associates were
           determined to launch a major reform of the country's budget policies and procedures,
           but managers and staff in several line ministries did not seem to appreciate the benefits
           they could derive from the reform. Some of these ministries were receiving substantial
           flows of external assistance, through donor-financed projects (often beyond their
           absorptive capacity), and felt no urgent need for radical changes.

        -  A one-year operation in support of a long-term reform. PERAC was viewed as the
           first one-year phase of a long-term program that would radically transform budget
           preparation, implementation and evaluation procedures, in order to improve budget
           choices and the structure of public expenditures. While the long-term objectives of the
           program were reasonably well-defined, the promoters of PERAC were less clear about
           what should be accomplished during the initial phase. They gave priority to improving
           the public expenditures programming and monitoring process, introducing most of the
           tools of results-based public finance management, and developing the capacity to use
           these tools. They failed to identify specific targets that the government ­ and pilot
           ministries in particular ­ were expected to reach       over the next few years.    The
           rationale for this approach was that a Poverty Reduction Support Credit, based on the
           priorities of a PRSP under preparation, was tentatively scheduled for FY02. Making
           PERAC the first phase of a program aimed at supporting a comprehensive and
           long-term public expenditure management reform agenda was a sound decision, but the
           timing proved to be unrealistic. Preparation of a PRSP reflecting the views of the
           government, the civil society and the donor community was a complex exercise that
           could not be completed in months. As a result, PERAC de facto became a three-year



                                                   - 3 -

             operation without the specific annual budget targets that would have been essential to
             guide the monitoring of the program by the government and the Bank.

        -    Scope of the program. The program was probably too complex, introducing at the
             same time too many new instruments and, perhaps, involving too many sectors. The
             selection of the main sectors (education and health, agriculture, transport and public
             works) was based on the following considerations. First, sector strategies had been
             prepared during the 1990s and public expenditures reviews were available for 1996/97.
             Second, the Bank did not envisage follow-up projects in any of these sectors, hoping
             that programmatic lending would become the main instrument of Bank financing in
             these areas.     Experience showed that agriculture and transport were not good
             candidates for the PERAC program. The development of sound program-budgets was
             complicated by the domination of externally financed projects reflecting donor
             objectives rather than sectoral priorities. In transport, externally financed investments
             accounted for 90 percent of public expenditures. In agriculture, the program included
             more than 100 externally financed and donor-driven projects. Focusing the PERAC
             program on health and education might have been more effective.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. Description. The objectives of the program were not explicitly revised during implementation but
a US$10 million supplemental credit was approved in 2002 to help mitigate the macroeconomic and fiscal
impact of a sharp drop in international prices of cotton, which accounts for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings (excluding re-exports). Implementation of the budget reform supported by
PERAC was making substantial progress. It was essential to maintain or increase allocations to health,
education and other pilot ministries ­ in line with the initial objectives of the program - despite the negative
effects of the cotton crisis on the economic and fiscal performance of the government.

3.2.2. The price shock occurred during the first phase of a major reform aimed at liberalizing the cotton
sector and encouraging private sector investment.          Critical measures had been taken, including the
elimination of the primary marketing monopsony of the cotton parastatal (SONAPRA). Private operators
already controlled 50 percent of ginning capacity. New agencies had been created by the profession to
manage public sector functions formerly performed by SONAPRA and coordinate the purchase of seed
cotton with input credit recovery to facilitate input financing by commercial banks. Following the drop in
export prices, the government had decided to grant a temporary subsidy to maintain producer prices at the
announced level of FCFA200/kg. The subsidy was viewed as essential to motivate farmers to cooperate
with the newly created agencies and support implementation of the cotton sector reform. The decision was
combined with the establishment of a new price mechanism, which would link domestic to export prices
and establish norms for determining ginning and export costs, thus eliminating the need for subsidies for the
foreseeable future.

3.2.3. Assessment.       The objectives of the supplemental credit were sound.           An Interim Country
Assistance Strategy (IDA/R2000-242) which had been discussed by the Executive Directors on January
23, 2001 envisaged the possibility of providing quick-disbursing assistance in case of acute price or
production shocks in the cotton sector. It was important to protect farmers' incomes in line with the
poverty reduction objectives of the government and to mitigate the impact of the cotton subsidy on social
sector allocations.

3.2.4. The subsidy was also justified by market distortions. Like several other West African countries,



                                                      - 4 -

Benin has a strong comparative advantage for the production of cotton. The drop in export prices was
partly due to large subsidies to marginal producers in developed countries.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. In this single-tranche public expenditure reform adjustment credit, the main components were five
public expenditure management reforms, as follows:

a) Budget Preparation

        -   Introducing performance/program budgeting in key sector ministries accounting for
            close to 60 percent of total public expenditures.
        -   Preparing and managing a unified budget. Based on existing/updated sector strategies,
            the program budgets would cover both capital and recurrent expenditures, whether they
            were financed domestically or by external donors.
        -   Preparing    medium-term      expenditure    frameworks    (MTEF)     consistent  with
            macroeconomic projections and based on a Poverty Reduction Strategic Paper (PRSP)
            under preparation.
        -   Preparing a 2002 budget allocating a higher share of total public expenditures to key
            sector ministries.

b) Budget Execution

        -   Devolving the authority to make commitments and issue payment orders to sector
            ministries (budget execution used to be centralized in the Ministry of Finance and
            Economy). Financial controllers would be posted in sector ministries to make controls
            more efficient and build capacity in these ministries.
        -   Adoption of the new --streamlined-- procedures would coincide with the introduction of
            an integrated computerized budget management system that would strengthen
            expenditure control and make timely monitoring possible.
        -   The next phase of computerization, to become operational in 2002, would integrate
            Treasury accounting to the rest of the expenditure management system.

c) Public Procurement

        -   Replacing ad hoc ministerial commissions by a National Procurement Board.
        -   Establishing standard procurement practices and training staff in all ministries.
        -   Submitting all public tenders and adjudications to the National Procurement Board on a
            non-objection basis.
        -   Publishing calls for bids and awards of procurement contracts.

d) Budget Monitoring and Performance Evaluation

        -   As sector ministries are expected to receive increased responsibilities for budget
            execution, they should be held accountable. They should maintain monthly records of
            budget execution and produce quarterly reports. Each ministry applying performance
            budgeting should develop indicators and create/strengthen M&E units (DPPs) to
            monitor performance and evaluate achievement of program objectives.




                                                    - 5 -

e) Internal and External Audits

        -   Each ministry has a Directorate of Internal Verification and Inspection (DIVI). In
            addition, the General Inspectorate of Finance (GIF) under the Minister of Finance
            audits the financial operations of all government agencies. New recruitment, training
            and additional responsibilities would help the GIF become the main instrument of the
            internal auditing system.
        -   The staff and the mission of the Chamber of Accounts, a section of the Supreme Court,
            would be expanded. Its audit of budget execution by sector ministries would include
            performance auditing. These audits would be based on monitoring and evaluation
            reports prepared by M&E units in the ministries.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. Although the main purpose of the supplemental credit of 2002 was to protect budget allocations to
key sector ministries, it can be argued that it also created a link between the PERAC program and the
reform of the cotton sector. External financing of the subsidy to cotton farmers was essential to achieve the
social sector objectives of PERAC, but the government subsidy itself was viewed as critical to protect
farmers' income and support the cotton sector reform.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1. The overall assessment of the Quality at Entry was rated satisfactory. However, the QAG panel
expressed reservations about the initial design of the program.         It recognized that PERAC was an
innovative operation and fully supported the credit's objectives, in particular the "delegation-accountabilitly
framework introduced by the operation but questioned the operational path selected to achieve these
objectives:

        -   The panel highlighted the risks of the program, in view of problems experienced with previous
            adjustment credits and the absence of progress in public administration and civil service
            reform.

        -   More importantly, the panel criticized the domination of the process aspects of the program
            and felt that credit documents and other explanations failed to show how the proposed
            operation would in practice contribute to better policies and public sector projects and more
            effective implementation of those policies and projects.

        -   Finally the panel, noting that donors contributed about 30 percent of Benin's public
            expenditures, questioned their commitment to the process.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

A. Results Obtained in the Context of the Budget Reform Financed by the First PERAC Credit

4.1.1. The government and the Bank needed two years of intensive work in 1999 and 2000 to prepare the
PERAC program and initiate a comprehensive capacity-building process. With help from Bank staff and
other technical support, five key ministries (education, health, transport, rural development and, eventually,



                                                     - 6 -

environment and urban development) started preparing program-budgets for 2000 and 2001.                 Credit
documents were finalized by the end of 2000 and a $10 million IDA credit was approved by the Executive
Directors on March 22, 2001.

4.1.2. Conceived as the first 1-year phase of a medium-term program, PERAC was expected to be
followed by a FY02 Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) aimed at implementing the strategic
objectives of a PRSP under preparation. Delays in the finalization of the PRSP ­ it was approved in
December 2002 ­ led to the postponement of the PRSC which was presented to the Executive Directors on
March 18, 2004.

4.1.3. Significant results have been obtained during the program preparation and implementation period.
The country's macroeconomic and fiscal performance has continued to improve. Program-budgets have
been prepared, sector ministries have begun to recognize the benefits of a programmatic approach and new
ministries want to participate. Some progress has been made towards the preparation of unified budgets,
ex-ante controls have been streamlined and a computerized budget management system has been
introduced. Modest progress has been made towards improving procurement procedures. External audits
have been strengthened, but the reform of internal audit system is stalled and the monitoring and evaluation
capacity of line ministries remains weak.

4.1.4. Good macroeconomic and fiscal performance.                 The country's macroeconomic and fiscal
performance remained generally sound during the PERAC implementation period. GDP growth exceeded 5
percent and per capita GNP growth increased from 2.3 percent in 1996-99 to 2.8 percent in 2000-02. The
rate of inflation ­ about 3 percent ­ was in line with the convergence criteria of the West African Economic
and Monetary Union. Tax collection improved and government revenue reached 16.9 percent of GDP in
2002. Government expenditures also increased to 20.4 percent of GDP. In agreement with the IMF, the
government programmed an increase in its overall budget deficit which averaged 4 percent in 2002-03
(excluding grants). One of the objectives of the larger deficit was to support a significant increase in social
sector expenditures in line with the priorities of the country's poverty reduction strategy.

4.1.5. Growing popularity of the program-budget process. The management of the Ministry of Finance
and Economy was fully behind the reform at all stages of PERAC preparation and implementation. Some
of the line ministries were less supportive at the beginning of the program. Project coordinators in
particular seemed reluctant to support a programmatic approach that might reduce their responsibilities
assuming program financing would eventually become the main instrument of donor assistance. However,
as managers and staff responsible for the preparation of program-budgets were getting more familiar with
the process, they began to recognize the benefits of a strategic approach to the programming of public
expenditures and were able to improve the presentation of their program-budgets.

4.1.6. In some ministries the lack of consensus on sector strategies was a major obstacle to the definition
of sound sectoral programs and the selection of appropriate budget priorities. The problem was often
compounded by the fragmentation of sectoral objectives due to the domination of investment projects
reflecting the priorities of individual donors. As a result, some of the first program-budgets lacked
coherence: the links between programs, activities and expected outcomes were not clear and performance
indicators were not operationally relevant. In addition, many sector ministries did not always have all the
data necessary to revise immediately the size and the structure of their program-budgets taking into account
reductions in budget allocations decided at the central level.

4.1.7. Significant progress has been achieved on most of these fronts during the PERAC implementation
period.


                                                       - 7 -

         -   In 2001, sector strategies for three pilot ministries (health, environment and rural
             development) have been updated and helped improve the definition of programs and the
             presentation of program-budgets.

         -   Also in 2001, preparation of the 2002 budget was coordinated with the introduction of
             a medium-term public expenditures framework. This is essential to integrate budget
             estimates into coherent macroeconomic projections and to provide sector ministries
             with a clear vision of future resources and program priorities.

         -   A few ministries have been able to improve their analysis of unit costs and better assess
             the possible impact of alternative budget allocations on programmed activities.

         -   Impressed by the slow but constant progress of PERAC, new ministries have decided to
             join the program. In 2001, with technical support from DANIDA and GTZ, the Rural
             Water Directorate of the Ministry of Mine, Energy and Water prepared a
             program-budget for 2002 and selected performance indicators. The Directorate was
             able to mobilize additional resources to implement its program and achieve its
             objectives. In 2002/2003, the Ministries of Justice, Industry and Commerce, and also
             Social Protection, expressed interest in participating in the process and have begun to
             prepare program-budgets.

         -   In 2002, the government was able to finalize its PRSP, which defines the main goals of
             the country's poverty reduction strategy. This is a critical step. The new PRSP will
             help identify the priorities that should inspire future government policies, including
             budget choices. It should give a stronger policy content to a budget reform which so
             far tended to emphasize the gradual introduction of a new budgeting and programming
             process.

4.1.8. Preparation of Unified Budgets. The program budgets prepared by pilot ministries include both
recurrent expenditures and investments. This is potentially an important development. There is a crying
need for a better balance between investments and recurrent expenditures, notably in the social sectors.
Increased school enrollments and improvements in the quality of primary and secondary education require
not only the construction of new classes but also ­ and probably more importantly ­ additional staff
resources, better training and improved coordination between decisions concerning the development of new
facilities and the deployment of personnel.

4.1.9. Program-budgets are presented as a unified document but the unification process does not extend
to execution of public expenditures. Budget monitoring and execution is subject to different procedures
and managed by different institutions. Since January 2001, the Ministry of Finance and Economy is
formerly responsible for all expenditures, including donor-financed projects, but the integration of
externally financed investment into the budget management and accounting system has made little progress
and the Ministry of Planning continues to centralize statistical information on project implementation. The
data collected is not reliable and is provided with long delays.

4.1.10. Merging Finance and Plan would not suffice to address this coordination problem. Donor policies
and practices remain the most serious obstacle to budget unification. Two multilateral institutions ­ the
European Union and the African Development Bank ­ have agreed to channel a significant part of their



                                                      - 8 -

assistance through direct budget support.      Three bilateral donors ­ Denmark, the Netherlands and
Switzerland ­ provided budget support in 2003. The other donors follow with considerable interest
implementation of the ongoing reform but have not yet decided to join the program-budget approach and
adapt their procedures accordingly.

4.1.11. Introduction of an integrated public finance management system. A major achievement of the
budget reform was: (i) the delegation of the spending authority to line ministries; (ii) the simplification of
ex-ante controls (only one visa from a financial controller is now required); (iii) the integration of recurent
and capital budgets at the level of line ministries in terms of formulation, presentation, and budget
discussion; and (iv) the introduction, in 2001, of a computerized budget management system named
SIGFIP. After a difficult beginning and with the limitation that it covered only domestically financed
expenditure at the onset, SIGFIP has considerably simplified the work of spending ministries. Initially, line
ministries could only access SIGFIP by sending staff to a room in the Ministry of Finance and Economy
specially equipped with computers connected with the network. Since 2003, most of the ministries have the
equipment necessary for direct access. Payment delays have been reduced and the preparation of budget
reports is more rapid. Deviations between approved and executed budgets declined to less than 5 percent in
2001, but this ratio deteriorated in 2002 and 2003. The 2002 and 2003 budgets were approved on time and
budgetary allocations were notified to line ministries according to the agreed schedule, but soon after the
beginning of the budget year, the government had to cut allocations to non-priority sectors to offset
additional expenditures in other sectors (this was essential to keep in track the ongoing IMF program).
Delays in reaching agreement on budget cuts slowed down budget execution in most sectors, including
PERAC ministries.

4.1.12. Several problems need to be addressed urgently. One of them is the significant recourse to
exceptional procedures ­ cash advances (régies d'avance) and direct payments (ordres de paiement) which
are not based on regular commitment and payment orfer issuance processes. The use of exceptional
procedures complicates and delays the production of reliable data on the final use of public resources. In
addition, SIGFIP is not connected to the WMONEY program used by the Treasury to execute and record
payments and tax receipts and manage Treasury accounts. The government seems to be aware of these
implementation problems. It has decided to reduce the use of special procedures and plans to install a new
computerized program (ASTER) for Treasury accounts that will be automatically connected with SIGFIP.
The new system is expected to be operational at the central level in July 2004.

4.1.13. Slow progress of procurement reform. Modest progress has been made towards strengthening the
country's procurement procedures. As envisaged in the President's report, the government has established
a National Procurement Committee (Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics) to replace ineffective ad
hoc inter-ministerial commissions. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and Economy publishes calls for
bids, bid evaluations and awards in a bi-weekly "journal des marchés publics".

4.1.14. Following recent Bank missions, the government has opted for a more comprehensive reform of
procurement procedures and practices. A draft law and a detailed three-year Action Plan have been
approved in December 2003. The action plan is based on the five pillars of sound public procurement,
namely: (i) a legal and institutional framework aimed at strengthening the procurement system and making
it more independent; (ii) modern procurement procedures; (iii) improved capacity; (iv) an independent
control system; and (v) enforcement of appropriate measures against corruption. The draft law, which
amends provisions in the procurement code concerning the institutional framework and defines the role of a
national regulatory agency for public procurement, was submitted to the National Assembly in February
2004. The next step will be the creation of new institutions, staff appointments and training, promotion of
good practices and audits of the performance of the new institutions. This is a critical reform. Good


                                                    - 9 -

procurement practices are essential to mobilize development assistance and private sector investment and
give more impetus to the fight against corruption.

4.1.15. Strengthening of the General Inspectorate in the Ministry of Finance, but virtually no progress
towards the reform of other internal audit institutions. A number of measures have been taken to
strengthen the Inspectorate (increased budget resources; appointment and training of 19 new auditors in
2000 and 2001), but the overall reform of the internal audit system, as envisaged during preparation of
PERAC, is stalled. The internal audit structure has been complicated by the creation of new institutions,
first, in 2002, within the External Debt Management Agency (CAA) and the Ministry of Planning (to
monitor projects included in the Public Investment Program), and then, more recently, within the
President's Office. Old and new institutions compete for scarce resources. Mandates and operational
procedures are not clearly defined. Audit programs are not coordinated and audit reports are not
implemented.

4.1.16. Improved external audits but weak performance of M&E unit in line ministries. Significant
progress has been made towards the strengthening of the external audit function.          The Chamber of
Accounts has been given additional staff and budget resources and has prepared two series of audits for the
2000 and 2001 program-budgets of PERAC ministries. The audit report for 2001 has been submitted to
the National Assembly. However, the quality and relevance of external audits largely depends on the
quality of the evaluation reports prepared in line ministries on the performance and outcome of
program-budgets.

4.1.17. Monitoring and evaluation units have been created in several PERAC ministries (essentially health,
agriculture, transport, and environment/urban development), but most of these units lack the resources and
expertise necessary to perform their new functions. They tend to focus their attention on verifying the
physical completion of programmed activities rather than assessing impact and outcomes. Cooperation
between M&E units and technical departments in line ministries is not adequate. A major problem is the
identification of operationally relevant and monitorable indicators of performance and outcome.

4.1.18. Improved monitoring and evaluation is essential to complete the program-budget process and make
it meaningful. External technical support may be necessary to guide the work and train the personnel of
M&E units. Most of the evaluators in these units need to spend time with experienced sector specialists
who can help them develop good methodologies and good practices consistent with the special needs of
each sector.

4.1.19. Overall Results. To conclude, implementation of PERAC should be viewed as satisfactory. The
program has demonstrated the feasibility of introducing the program-budget approach in Benin and has
paved the way for more comprehensive reforms of the budget process. A good example of the benefits of
PERAC has been the performance of the Ministry of Environment and Urban Development (MEHU) which
volunteered to join a program initially reserved to health, education, transport and agriculture. To gain
access to PERAC, MEHU managers and staff undertook to familiarize themselves with the programmatic
approach, developed a coherent strategy and action plan for the management of their main activities,
organized an external audit of their institutions, and began to adapt the structure of the Ministry to the
needs of a more decentralized management of the sector.

4.1.20. Significant progress has been made in public expenditure management, in particular in the area of
budget formulation, execution and reporting as a result of key institutional reforms and an intense capacity
building effort. In particular, most of the benchmarks set in 2000 for subsequent adjustment credit were
met (see annex 9). Moreover, most PERAC overall budget performance targets were reached (see Annex


                                                    - 10 -

10): procurement lags were reduced from 8 months in 2000 to 4 months in 2002; payment delays were
reduced from 30 days in 2000 to 22 days in 2002; deviation between budget approved and spent by pilot
ministries was at maximum 10 percent (94 percent on average in 2001 and 90 percent in 2002); all bidding
results are published two times a week by the Ministry of Finance; all ministries including pilot ministries
prepare quarterly budget implementation reports that are submitted to the Ministry of Finance for review
(budget implementation issues are raised at the Council of Ministers if necessary); and annual reports of
program-budget implementation have been prepared by pilot ministries for 2000, 2001, and 2002 fiscal
years and were submitted to the National Assembly for audit.

4.1.21. The main weakness of the budget reform is that so far program-budgets only had a modest impact
on budget decisions. Program-budgets are presented to the National Assembly as an annex to the budget
and the focus of the debate is on the draft "Loi de Finances" in its traditional presentation. In some sectors,
the preparation of strategies and program-budgets influenced priorities and the choice of activities but so
far these adjustments have been exceptional. The preparation of the PRSP and the gradual recognition of
the vital importance of poverty reduction as a major goal of government policies has begun to have a
healthy influence on the structure of public expenditures. The share of education in budget allocations and
actual expenditures went up from 17-18 percent in 1997-2000 to 21-23 percent since 2001. The poor
performance of the Ministry of Health made it impossible to achieve the same results in the health sector.

4.1.22. It is hoped that the internalization of the program-budget process, the ongoing effort to update and
strengthen sector strategies, the influence of the PRSC process and the policy dialogue with the donor
community will help the government and the political leadership better understand the potential benefits of
the budget reform as a tool for improving budget choices.

B. Results Achieved in Connection with the Supplemental Credit

4.1.23. The 2002 supplemental credit achieved its main objective of supporting the budget reform program
and facilitating an increase in allocations to education and health services. As discussed earlier, the
government was able to mitigate the macroeconomic, fiscal and social impact of the drop in cotton export
prices. Most of the components of the budget reform have been implemented. Thanks mainly to significant
progress in education, budget allocations to the social sectors and actual expenditures have increased from
27-28 percent of total expenditures in 1997-2000 to 31-32 percent in 2001-03.

4.1.24. The government subsidy also protected the income of cotton farmers and contributed to poverty
alleviation in rural areas. The supplemental credit provided that the government should recover 75 percent
of the surplus revenue of ginning companies resulting from an increase in the world market price for cotton
above US Cents 42.7/lb. One of the conditions of the supplemental was an independent audit of the export
operations of ginning companies. A preliminary audit report concluded that increased marketing, transport
and ginning costs have offset the benefits of higher export prices. The Bank provided written comments on
the draft audit report in December 2003. Considering that the methodology used to calculate costs was
inadequate and undermined the credibility of the audit, the Ministry of Finance and Economy asked the
audit company to revise its estimates.

4.1.25. Some of the institutional objectives of the cotton sector reform have been achieved and most of the
agencies created by the reform are operational. The new mechanism for the negotiation of producer prices
has been used for the 2002-03 and 2003-04 campaigns and eliminated the need for government subsidy.
Based on international market prices, producer prices were reduced to FCFA180/kg in 2002-03 but went
up to 190 for the 2003-04 campaign. The reform of the cotton sector is not yet complete. More progress is
expected in the following areas: (i) creation of a stabilization fund that would facilitate the introduction of a


                                                     - 11 -

floor price at the beginning of the production cycle; (ii) privatization of SONAPRA and, eventually, (iii)
full liberalization and privatization of the "filière".

4.2 Outputs by components:

See paragraphs 4.1.8. to 4.1.18. above.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. As described in earlier paragraphs, most of the institutions participating in PERAC have been
strengthened by several important measures implemented during the program.                 These include partial
unification of the budget, gradual introduction of the program-budget approach, delegation of the spending
authority to line ministries, decentralization of ex-ante financial controls, computerization of budget
management, publication of public bids and bidding results and strengthening of the external audit function.
However, much more is needed to consolidate initial achievements and create a culture of management by
results that will influence major budget decisions (both inter- and intra-sectoral allocations). At this stage,
the institutional development impact of PERAC should be viewed as only modest, although renewed efforts
undertaken in the context of the recently approved PRSC will give a new impetus to a reform that should
considerably improve the procedures, the capacity and the performance of Benin's public finance
institutions and key sectoral management agencies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. Role of the donor community. The World Bank and other donors played a significant role in
helping the Ministry of Finance and Economy and sector ministries organize and manage the
program-budget process. However, the Bank did not always realize the need to adapt its own operational
practices to the needs of the new instrument. Generally good advice was provided to a number of sector
ministries on how to develop a more strategic approach to budget management, but Bank sector specialists
were not always able to involve themselves in the details of the budget preparation and evaluation process.
The success of the budget reform and its impact on the structure of public expenditures require a constant
dialogue on the policy implications of major spending decisions at all the stages of budget formulation and
execution. Administrative budget constraints and resistance to change probably are the main factors behind
the weaker aspects of Bank supervision.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Four main domestic factors influenced the performance of the PERAC program: (i) resistance to
innovation; (ii) lack of capacity in key ministries; (iii) excessive staff mobility; and (iv) institutional issues.

5.2.2. Resistance to innovation and lack of capacity. As mentioned earlier, the Minister of Finance and



                                                       - 12 -

Economy was the main supporter of the budget reform and was able to persuade most of his colleagues to
approve the program. However, implementing the reform required major changes in the management and
operations of both central and line ministries and the attitude and performance of their staff.

5.2.3. Before the reform, the Ministry of Finance and Economy was de facto managing the budget and
performed most of the ex-ante controls and internal monitoring functions. As a result, sector ministries
saw themselves as executing agencies without real spending authority, did very little planning outside the
preparation of investment projects and were ill-prepared to assume their new responsibilities. The reaction
of senior and middle-level managers to the reform varied. For large ministries which had to deal with a
wide variety of complex policy, institutional, managerial and social issues, the learning process took a long
time. Smaller ministries led by managers familiar with private business practices were better able to
improvise and learn by themselves the techniques of performance budget planning and monitoring.

5.2.4. The Ministry of Finance and Economy also was not adequately structured and staffed to organize
the reform process and provide guidance and training to the other ministries.           The reform required
substantial changes in priorities and attitudes: the Ministry no longer was the sole planner and manager of
the public expenditures program but was supposed to become the promoter of a decentralized process
increasingly led by sector ministries. This proved to be a difficult undertaking. Managers and staff did not
always recognize the vital importance and the special requirements of their new role.

5.2.5. Finally, the effectiveness of the budget management function was also affected by implementation
problems linked with the introduction of SIGFIP. SIGFIP had a difficult beginning. A major problem was
accessibility (the system was first developed in the Ministry of Finance and Economy; the staff of line
ministries had to go to the Ministry of Finance and Economy to perform budget transactions concerning
their ministries). Also the quality, reliability and timeliness of the budget information system improved
only slowly. Finally, the use of special procedures needed to be reduced and regulated.

5.2.6. Staff mobility and institutional problems. In a system where on-the-job training ­ learning by
doing ­ has become more important than formal training, staff mobility is a major obstacle to building and
maintaining capacity. Many central and sector ministries have been affected by frequent changes of
personnel (senior managers, middle-level executives and technical staff).

5.2.7. Implementation of the budget reform was also complicated by a number of institutional problems.
The management of the education sector ­ one of the most important PERAC agency ­ which until
mid-2001 was in the hands of a single ministry, is now divided between three: (i) primary & secondary
education, (ii) higher education & research, and (iii) technical education & vocational training. Despite
modest progress towards a unified budget, competition between Finance and Planning continues to affect
the monitoring of externally financed projects. In other words, the Ministry of Finance and Economy has
not yet assumed its role of principal coordinator of the country's economic and public finance policies and
operations, which is necessary to optimize the management of the ongoing budget reform. Finally, the
budget preparation and execution functions within line ministries continue to be divided between an
Administration Directorate (DA), traditionally responsible for managing current expenditures, and a
Programming and Planning Directorate (DPP), whose main function was to coordinate public investment in
the sector.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See paragraphs 5.2.1. - 5.2.7. above.




                                                     - 13 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The ongoing budget reform is likely to be sustainable:

        -   First, as mentioned earlier, the initial resistance to the budget reform has virtually disappeared.
            Middle-level managers in key sector ministries are beginning to see the benefits they could
            derive from the reform and are ready to use the new procedures to improve budget choices.

        -   Second, the demand for participation in the program budget process is rapidly growing.
            Following the example of MEHU and the Rural Water Directorate of MMEH, the Ministry of
            Commerce and Industry, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Protection have
            decided to join the program. As a result, about 70 percent of total public expenditures will be
            analyzed through the logic of the program budget.

        -   Finally, the government and the Bank have decided to continue, expand and intensify the
            ongoing budget reform.       Based on priorities identified in the recently approved poverty
            reduction strategy, a Poverty Reduction Support Credit has been approved by the Executive
            Directors on March 18, 2004. The new operation will consolidate results achieved during
            implementation of PERAC, while giving a stronger sector policy content to an effort that so far
            tended to give priority to the process.

6.1.2. The long-term sustainability of the budget reform will largely depend on the success of the PRSC,
the continued government commitment to improved public finance management and the technical and
financial support provided by the Bank. It will also depend on the attitude of the donor community. So far
the response of donors has been positive. The European Union and the AfDB have signed budget support
agreements for 2004-06. The three bilateral agencies which provided budget support in 2003 are preparing
follow-up operations in the context of a budget support framework agreed with the government and the
European Union. In some sectors, including rural water, program-budgets are beginning to be used as
instruments of donor coordination and joint government-donor reviews are organized to monitor progress
and prepare future budgets.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. As discussed earlier, PERAC is the first phase of a reform to be supported by a series of PRSCs.
The first PRSC builds on, and will consolidate, results achieved during implementation of PERAC in
public expenditures management.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. First PERAC credit. The Bank helped design an ambitious reform program whose objectives were
sound but could not possibly be achieved in the context of a 1-year operation. The Bank inputs to the



                                                      - 14 -

preparation of the operation were rated satisfactory by the QAG review at entry. However, the Bank relied
heavily on the firm commitment of the Minister of Finance and Economy and a few close associates, and
may have underestimated: (i) the resistance to change on the part of staff in other ministries and (ii) the
capacity-building requirements of all the institutions involved in the process.

7.1.2. The program was extremely complex and its development required a combination of
macroeconomic, financial management and sectoral expertise that was difficult to assemble for a
comparatively small $10 million credit. During program preparation, the Bank made significant efforts to
inform and guide the staff and institutions participating in PERAC, helping them prepare the first
program-budgets and identify performance indicators. This was essential to launch the program and give
some momentum to the reform process. Cooperation between Bank generalists and sector specialists was
effective during most of the preparation phase.

7.1.3. Supplemental Credit. The Bank reacted promptly to the crisis caused by the drop in cotton export
prices that could have derailed implementation of PERAC and the ongoing cotton sector reform.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. First PERAC Credit. Although the credit was a single-tranche operation, supervision of the
program continued after Board approval. This was essential to complete the training effort initiated during
program preparation.     While the Bank supervised attentively the main components of the public
expenditures reform, it is not sure that it fully recognized the intensity of the supervision effort needed to
support the reform process at the sector level. The preparation of PERAC used about 190 staff-weeks, but
only 27 staff-weeks were allocated to supervision in 2001 and 2002. It is true that additional resources
were allocated to PERAC-related activities, including preparation of a medium-term expenditure
framework in 2001, the review of the PRSP in 2002 and the preparation of the PRSC in 2002/03. In this
context, several multisector missions reviewed the performance of PERAC and provided policy and
operational advice to the government on ways and means of improving specific aspects of the budget
reform.

7.2.2. The quality of supervision was uneven. Many useful reports were written on the public finance
management aspects of the program, but, as mentioned earlier, additional efforts should have been made in
key sectors to influence the structure and content of specific program-budgets, monitor execution and build
the capacity of M&E units.

7.2.3. Supplemental credit. Supervision of the supplemental credit was combined with that of the
ongoing Cotton Sector Reform Project and was adequate.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory considering the complexity of the program,
including the multiplicity of sectors and institutions involved in its implementation. The first PRSC
provides a good opportunity to strengthen and diversify the technical and advisory role played by the Bank
in support of the reform.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. From the beginning of the program, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance and Economy played



                                                     - 15 -

a critical constructive role, helping formulate the main objectives of the reform and persuading political
leaders and line ministries to approve the program and agree to participate.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The performance of the government was uneven. The strong commitment of the Finance Minister
and close associates in the ministry was a positive factor. However, the staff of the ministry was not
well-prepared to organize and manage the process and provide adequate guidance to line ministries. A few
sector ministries took bold initiatives to develop new programs. Others were less enthusiastic and therefore
less effective.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The Ministry of Finance and Economy played a strong leadership role at the beginning of the
program but needs to develop its capacity to guide the work of line ministries. The Ministry implemented
most of the provisions defined in the Memorandum of Understanding prepared during the negotiation of the
PERAC credit, including measures aimed at increasing the budget and staff resources of the Chamber of
Accounts and facilitating the training of new auditors. Efforts made to improve the monitoring and
evaluation performance of sector ministries were less effective.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. On balance, the overall performance of the government was satisfactory, considering the lack of
capacity in both central and sector ministries to design and manage such a complex reform program and
adapt procedures and practices accordingly.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1.1. The first lesson is that a budget reform is a long-term process that will take decades to succeed in
most member countries. The main issue, at the design stage, is to select a few strategic kick-off activities
and operational targets that can be completed/achieved in one or two years. PERAC would have been more
effective if the first phase had been focused on a couple of high-priority sectors and included more specific
objectives, including annual budget targets and clear results indicators that would help the government and
the management of sector ministries evaluate progress towards implementation of short- and long-term
objectives.

8.1.2. The second lesson is that the success of a long-term budget reform will obviously depend on the
long-term commitment of both the government and its financiers. In this case, the government and the
Bank, from the beginning of the program, envisaged follow-up operations in the form of a series of PRSCs.
This was critical to strengthen the motivation of all parties to sustain the ongoing effort and deepen the
reform process.

8.1.3. The third lesson is that a multi-sector budget reform program needs to mobilize considerable
support from the Bank and possibly other donors, particularly at the supervision stage. Ideally, even a
PERAC limited to health and education should have mobilized the same staff input as three Bank lending
operations financing a macroeconomic and financial management assistance program and two social sector
projects. The Bank should not get involved in that kind of activity unless the appropriate administrative
budget resources are expected to be available.




                                                    - 16 -

8.1.4. The fourth lesson is that introducing entirely new budget preparation and evaluation techniques
may require a significant input of technical assistance to be financed by donors. The promoters of PERAC
assumed that capacity-building activities should be part of the budget and should be designed and managed
by the Ministry of Finance and Economy and other government agencies. This produced significant results,
notably with respect to building the capacity of the Chamber of Accounts. However, these inputs needed to
be supplemented by more traditional TA activities financed by the Bank or other institutions: (i) the use of
funds available under a previous Bank project helped MEHU develop the urban component of its
program-budget; (ii) DANIDA assistance was essential to help the Rural Water Directorate prepare a
coherent rural water development program; and (iii) the development and introduction of SIGFIP was
supported by French technical assistance.        In addition, more intensive technical support by sector
specialists could have improved the performance of monitoring and evaluation units in key ministries,
helping them develop adequate methodologies, identify relevant indicators and initiate the surveys necessary
to establish baselines and monitor changes. Future operations should include a more detailed analysis of
capacity building requirements and identify sources of financing (government budget, Bank inputs, donor
programs and projects etc.). It is often difficult to anticipate all the areas in which the capacity and
performance of specific agencies will need to be strengthened. Sometimes a well-funded administrative
budget, combined with strong support from other donors, will be sufficient to help government agencies
meet the challenges of the reform. In some cases, a diversified technical assistance project flexibly
designed to respond to unforeseen needs may prove to be essential to achieve program objectives.

8.1.5. The fifth lesson concerns the institutional aspects of the program. Both the Budget Directorate and
most of the other departments in the Ministry of Finance and Economy tend to give priority to what they
see as their main operational and administrative functions and do not have the staff, the time and the
capacity to guide other ministries in the design, execution and monitoring of program-budgets. Recently,
the Ministry decided to create a unit whose main function will be to promote, administer and monitor the
reform process. Similar institutional problems affected the performance of line ministries. The lack of
appropriate institutional set-up is partly responsible for the weak performance of monitoring and evaluation
units. In other words, the capacity building programs proposed in the preceding paragraph should also
include a diagnostic analysis of the institutions concerned and detailed plans for improving their structure
and increasing their efficiency.

8.1.6. For the short-term future, the Bank may also wish to consider the following recommendations:

        -    The next phase of Bank programs in support of budget reforms should first aim at
             consolidating initial results.    Accelerating the process will only produce confusion and
             mismanagement. The main objective should be not only to improve and disseminate the tools
             used to prepare and monitor program budgets but to make good use of them in the context of a
             more effective budget formulation and decision-making process based on appropriate national
             and sectoral development strategies.

        -    The fact that new ministries want to join the program-budget process shows the vitality of the
             reform but also creates a major absorptive capacity constraint. Ideally, the focus of future
             programs should be on the social sectors whose performance is critical to achieve the poverty
             reduction goals of the PRSP. In addition, extending the program to new sectors and ministries
             should be based on strict selection criteria, including a shared vision of the long-term
             development needs of the sector, a realistic operational plan to implement agreed sector
             strategies and clear capacity building and institutional development proposals.




                                                     - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1.1. A copy of the completion report prepared by the Benin government is attached. The report
emphasizes the good macroeconomic and fiscal performance of the country during the PERAC
implementation period and the structural measures taken to improve governance, fight corruption and
restructure and/or privatize key public enterprises, including SONAPRA (cotton), SBEE (water and
power), OPT (post and telecommunications) and the Cotonou Port.

9.1.2. With respect to the budget reform, the report describes the measures taken to decentralize the
budget management and monitoring process and strengthen the internal and external audit function. It
comments on the positive results of SIGFIP and lists measures taken to improve procurement practices and
publish bidding procedures and contract awards. The report also comments on the extension of the
program-budget process to new ministries, its integration into a medium-term public expenditures
framework and the role to be played by the PRSP to guide future policy and budget decisions.

9.1.3. Finally, the report comments on progress achieved in key sectors participating in PERAC
(education and health services, rural water supply and environment). It concludes that the long-term
success of the budget reform will largely depend on strengthening national capacities and the growing
support of the donor community.

(b) Cofinanciers:

9.1.4. The PERAC program was supported by the African Development Fund. The Fund cooperated
closely with the government and the Bank in the preparation of the budget reform and in May 2001, the
Fund approved a credit to finance a program entitled Budget Reform Support Program. The credit was
disbursed in a single tranche of U.A.13.8 million in December 2001. A copy of the completion report
prepared by the African Development Fund is available. The AfDB report emphasizes the importance of
the budget reform process. Slow implementation, the poor quality of the program-budgets and weak M&E
performance have reduced the effectiveness of a reform, which however should be considered as an
important step towards budget support for poverty reduction. The ADF will continue to provide budget
support for the budget reform and the PRSC.

9.1.5. The European Union also approved the objectives of PERAC, was involved in the preparation of
the program and helped finance the reform through budget support. It will continue to provide budget
support for the continuation of the reform and future PRSCs.

9.1.6. Denmark, the Netherlands and Switzerland provided direct budget support and/or technical
assistance for specific components of the PERAC program and intend to continue during implementation of
the PRSC. The French government also provided technical support for the development of SIGFIP, but did
not provide direct budget support for the PERAC program. Most of the other bilateral donors operating in
Benin also approve the long-term objectives of the budget reform, follow attentively its progress but are not
yet ready to consider radical changes in their development policies and procedures.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.




                                                    - 18 -

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                              - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                     Actions Taken During
       Objectives      Preparation Period         Actions Envisaged During
                                                                                      Actions taken in 2001-03
                           (1999-2000)                   Implementation


    Introduce       - Prepared program-         - Formulate ­ and then revise on   - MTEF prepared. First at
    performance       budgets - including         a rolling basis ­ a medium-term    sector level. Finalization of
    budgeting to      performance indicators -    expenditure framework              PRSP delayed (approved by
    improve impact    in five pilot ministries    (MTEF), based on PRSP              government in December
    of public         (Health, Education,         program.                           2002). Consolidated MTEF
    spending on       Transport, Agriculture,   - Unify recurrent budget (Min.of     (2003-05) submitted to
    growth and        Environment & Urban         Finances) & PIP (Min.of Plan)      National Assembly together
    development       Development).             - Strengthen strategic discussion    with PRSP.
    through         - Presented 2000 and 2001     of overall budget by Council of  - Recurrent budget and PIP
    stronger          program budgets to          Ministers.                         unified at preparation and
    accountability    National Assembly,        - Extend budget program              presentation stage. Externally
    between           along with traditional      approach to other ministries.      financed investments still
    spending and      budget.                   - Designate DPPs in each             executed outside national
    results         - Started training program    sectoral ministry as responsible   procedures and not integrated
                      on budget preparation,      for preparing and monitoring       in government budget
                      implementation,             program-budgets.                   management and treasury
                      monitoring and            - Assure that DPP and DA in          account systems.
                      evaluation.                 pilot ministries have sufficient - Draft 2003 budget prepared
                    - 2001 budget included        staff and resources ­ including    as annual tranche of MTEF.
                      adequate funding for        TA ­ to monitor program          - Growing allocations for
                      budget monitoring and       execution                          capacity building in budgets
                      evaluation.               - Strengthen formulation of          (CFAF1.5 billion for 2002
                                                  sector spending strategies as      and CFAF1.8 billion for
                                                  basis for strengthening program    2003).
                                                  budgets in pilot ministries      - Most monitoring and
                                                - Present 2002 and subsequent        evaluation units not yet
                                                  budgets to National Assembly,      functional.
                                                  including growing share of       - Efforts made to refine
                                                  expenditures and increased         macroeconomic and sector
                                                  efficiency and targeting in key    strategies, notably in the
                                                  sectors.                           context of the preparation of
                                                                                     PRSP and PRSC.
                                                                                   - No solid evidence that
                                                                                     strategies and program
                                                                                     budgets have influened
                                                                                     decision-making process.
                                                                                     Modest impact of budget
                                                                                     reform on structure of public
                                                                                     expenditures.




                                                       - 20 -

                      Actions taken during
     Objectives        preparation period        Actions envisaged during
                                                                                  Actions taken in 2001-03
                           (1999-2000)                 implementation

Improved budget       - Prepared semi-annual   - Spending authority assumed     - Extension of spending
management and            execution reports         by sector ministries for        authority to sector
greater delegation of     on 2000 program           both recurrent and              ministries effective but
spending authority.       budgets.                  investment expenditures.        externally funded
Action focused in     - New expenditure        - Launch implementation of           investments still
three areas :             management                computerized budget             executed through donor
-   Expenditure           system : delegation       management system               procedures.
    system                of spending               (training and TA)           - Computerized budget
                          authority to line                                         management system
                          ministries.                                               (SIGFIP) operational in
                      - Preparation of                                              2001 at the Ministry of
                          computerized                                              Finance and Economy,
                          expenditure                                               extended to all ministries
                          management                                                in 2002 and fully
                          system (user                                              decentralized in 2003
                          manuals and                                               (All ministries now
                          training).                                                connected from their
                      - New budget                                                  site).
                          nomenclature                                          - Treasury operations not yet
                          consistent with                                           automatically
                          WAEMU                                                     coordinated with
                          directives.                                               SIGFIP.
                      - Appointed National                                      - Continued semi-annual
                          Procurement                                               monitoring of budget
                          Board.                                                    execution. However,
                      - Training program for                                        reliability of reports
                          procurement staff.                                        affected by excessive use
                                                                                    of special procedures
                                                                                    (advance cash accounts
                                                                                    and direct payments).
                                                                                - Reduced payment lags and
                                                                                    deviations between voted
                                                                                    and implemented
                                                                                    budgets.



-   Public            - Appointed National     - Subject all public tenders and - All public tenders and
    procurement           Procurement               adjudications to National       adjudications are
                          Board.                    Procurement Board on a          submitted to the National
                      - Training program for        non-objection basis.            Procurement Board,
                          procurement staff    - Respect public procurement         including for externally
                                                    procedures and criteria.        finance expenditure, on a
                                                    Minimize delays.                non-objection basis.
                                               - Publication of all public          Procurement delays
                                                    bidding results.                reduced.
                                               - Increased use of private (or   - Bi-weekly paper publishes
                                                    public non-profit) general      calls for bids, evaluations
                                                    contracting agencies to         and results.
                                                    carry out procurement       - National procurement
                                                    (Maîtrise d'ouvrage             seminar based on
                                                    déléguée)                       conclusions of CPAR.

                                               - Creation of database on        - Action Plan adopted. Draft
-   Internal controls - Appointed and trained       standard contract prices.       new law will be
    and audits            17 internal auditors                                      submitted shortly to
                          for General          - Strengthen internal controls,      National Assembly
                          Inspectorate of           harmonizing work            - Maîtrise d'ouvrage
                          Finance (GIF)             programs and providing          déléguée effective in
                                                    sufficient resources.           some ministries.
                                                                                - Database is manual,
                                                                                    difficult to update and
                                                                                    therefore of little use.

                                                                                - Ex-ante controls
                                                                                    decentralized to line
                                                                                    ministries.
                                                  - 21 -                        - Increased resources for GIF.

                      Actions taken during
     Objectives        preparation period       Actions envisaged during         Actions taken in 2001-03
                           (1999-2000)                implementation

External oversight   - Government accounts     - Auditing of budget accounts    - Budget reporting law for
capacity               for 1998 submitted to     for 2000 and subsequent          1998 was approved by
                       and cleared by            years.                           National Assembly.
                       Chamber of Accounts.    - Submission to National         - Budget reporting law for
                     - Draft budget reporting    Assembly.                        1999 was submitted for
                       law (Loi de                                                approval to the National
                       Règlement) submitted                                       Assembly; 2000 accounts
                       to National Assembly.                                      have been audited by the
                                                                                  Chamber of Accounts; 2001
                                                                                  financial audit of 2001
                                                                                  government accounts is
                                                                                  underway; 2002 government
                                                                                  accounts were submitted to
                                                                                  the Chamber of Accounts for
                                                                                  audit
                     - Adopted a Protocol      - Chamber of Accounts to         - Audits of 2001 program-
                       defining the modalities   prepare a performance audit      budgets submitted to
                       of the ex-post audit by   of 2000 program budgets in       National Assembly.
                       the Chamber of            line ministries and a full-    - Staff of the Chamber
                       Accounts of the           scale audit of ministries with   doubled.
                       implementation of the     program budgets for 2001
                       2001 budget
Building capacity in - Signing of TA                                            - UNDP/Belgium and African
National Assembly      agreement for Finance                                      Capacity Building
to debate and          Commission.                                                Foundation helped create
monitor budget.                                                                   unit aimed at enhancing role
                                                                                  of Parliament in policy
                                                                                  debate and budget
                                                                                  monitoring.
Budget
implementation.
Reduce :                                       - From 8 months to 7 in 2001     - 6 months in 2001 and 4
-    Procurement                                 and 5 in 2003                    months in 2002
     lags                                      - From 30 days to 25 in 2001     - 23 days in 2001 and 22 in
-    Payment lags                                and 15 in 2003                   2002
-    Deviations                                - Maximum 10 percent in 2001     - 6 percent in 2001 and 10
     between budget                              and 5 percent in 2002            percent in 2002
     approved and
     spent
Budget
implementation                                 - Submit quarterly reports       - Done
reports.                                         (pilot ministries)             - Done with delays. Poor
Monitoring and                                 - Produce and publish in first     quality of performance
evaluation                                       quarter of following year        reports.
(pilot ministries)




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Not applicable.




                                      - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 PERAC:
 Identification/Preparation              2    2 Economists
              January 1999
              May 2000                   4    4 Economists

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              September/Octob          14     4 Economists
              er 2000 Appraisal               1 Institutional Development
                                              1 Health
                                              1 Education
                                              1 Transport
                                              1 Urban
                                              2 Rural Development
                                              1 Environment
                                              1 Financial Management
                                              1 Procurement
              December 2000              4    2 Economists
              Negotiation                     1 Lawyer
                                              1 Disbursement Officer

 Supervision
              April 2001                 2    2 Economists                         S               S
              June 2001                 10    2 Economists                         S               S
                                              1 Institutional Development
                                              1 Heath
                                              1 Education
                                              1 Transport
                                              1 Urban
                                              2 Rural Development
                                              1 Environment
              October 2001              11    2 Economists                         S               S
                                              1 Budget Management
                                              1 Health
                                              1 Education
                                              1 Transport
                                              1 Urban
                                              2 Rural Development
                                              1 Environment
                                              1 Energy
              May 2002                   2    2 Economists (+ representatives      S               S
                                              of Danida
              July 2002                  7    2 Economists                         S               S
                                              1 Budget Management
                                              1 Public Accounting
                                              1 Institutional Development
                                              1 Financial Management
                                              1 Procurement



                                               - 25 -

 ICR
               December 2003          2     1 Economist                       S    S
                                            1 Consultant
               PERAC                  6     2 Economists                      S    S
               Supplemental                 2 Agriculture
               Credit:                      1 Lawyer
               Appr & Neg                   1 Disbursement Officer
               September 2003
               Supervision            4     2 Economists                      S    S
                                            2 Agriculture



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  PERAC:
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                190.5                           762
  Supervision                           27.0                           108
  ICR                                     6.5                           26
  Total                                224.0                           896




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

No specific documents were prepared for this implementation completion report. The assessment is based
on Bank supervision reports, an ICR field mission, and relevant documents prepared by the Borrower since
effectiveness of the credit.




                                                  - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Government's Contribution




                                       COMPLETION REPORT

                                        ON THE WORLD BANK

            PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORM ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (PERAC)

                                      IDA CREDIT No 3479-BEN

                                            (APRIL 19, 2001)




As part of the effort to pursue Benin's economic reform and consolidate its economic and financial gains of
the past few years, the government of Benin and the World Bank signed a Public Expenditure Reform
Adjustment Credit (PERAC) equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR).

The credit became effective on August 30, 2001 and closed on March 31, 2003. A supplemental credit
was signed on March 19, 2003 and closed on March 31 of the same year.

This completion report focuses on assessing performances over the life of the credit by comparing the
initial status (1999-2000) and the final status as regards public expenditure management and other key
factors determining Benin's economic and social performance.




                                                   - 30 -

WHY THE PERAC?

The Public Expenditure Reform Credit (PERC) aimed to promote better strategy, efficiency and equity in
the use of all public resources, irrespective of origin. With respect to external assistance, the major change
was to channel all external financing through the national Budget.

This approach was primarily based on mutual trust. If budget management was becoming really
inadequate, there was the risk of donors withdrawing or reverting to a project-based assistance, with all its
disadvantages. Some resistance could also be expected within the Administration, which would hamper
proper implementation of the budget reform and capacity building.

In addition, the budget system had its strength but also had quite significant weaknesses including in the
areas of:

         ·        Budget preparation and execution;
         ·        Budget management by line Ministries without overall sector perspective;
         ·        Evaluation and control systems.

A. Budget preparation and execution

1.       Budget preparation

There is inadequate coordination between the preparation of recurrent and capital budgets at all levels. In
planning medium-term expenditure only capital investment was taken into account, without proper analysis
of its future impact on current expenditure.

Investment options and trade-offs between capital and current expenditure were all determined by the
availability of external funds, the main source of financing, rather than by government strategies.

Spending Ministries prepared their budget requests without sufficient information on the amount of
domestic resources allocated to their sector, resulting in lack of realism in program preparation and
difficulty in intra-sector arbitration.

2.       Budget execution

The so-called `normal' system was exceptionally cumbersome, with many ex-ante controls causing delays
and inefficiencies as well as rejections at each level.

Budget execution reports are primarily based on data provided by the Budget Directorate (Direction
Générale du Budget-DGB). If the data is usually well presented, it is further remote from the actual
transactions than the accounting system in the spending ministries. In addition, they were not integrated into
the accounting system used by the Treasury.

The Treasury monitors payment orders (ordonnancement) according with the budget nomenclature, which
is not used for the monitoring of the `actual' payments, although it would have been the best way to
proceed.

Commitments on all expenditure are subject to control, including petty expenditure, with the exception of
multiyear contracts.


                                                      - 31 -

On the whole, the system could ensure compliance of commitments and payment orders with budget
authorizations, but made expenditure management inefficient and contributed to reducing line ministries'
accountability.

3.       Procurement

Procurement thresholds for approval by the National and Departmental Procurement Boards as stipulated
in the draft decree were too low and could have resulted in considerable delays. Furthermore, a systematic
intervention by the Procurement Board in the awarding of all contracts is not what the Procurement Code
had intended and results in delays in the procurement procedures.

B. Budget execution by Ministries

Budget execution at ministry level lacked a global view. Budget management was to a large extent limited
to recurrent expenditures, with the exception of payroll, with almost no information on investment from the
Finance Directorates. The Ministry of Finance and Economy was slow in providing specific budgetary
guidelines to ministries for the preparation of their budget.

Investment depended primarily on donor contributions, and was budgetized by the Ministry of Economy
and the Directorates of Programming and Prospective in each ministry.

The persistence of so-called "unallocated budget items", managed by the Ministry of Finance and Economy
despite a clear sector orientation, exacerbates the marginalization of line ministries in implementing sector
policy.

C. Evaluation and Control Systems

Management and internal audit systems are overall inadequate. The control system is not designed to easily
verify that acquisitions are well used, with minimum waste. There is no ex-post control by relevant
services (DIVI, IGF), of capital expenditure nor do they check the veracity of services rendered.

Controls carried out by the Financial comptroller (CF), the Budget Directorate (DGB) and the Treasury,
while effective, are often redundant (duplication, even triplication in some cases). Moreover, the CF does
not reconcile audited budget items with budget information in the DGB. The Treasury has not yet been able
to submit any management account to the Court of Auditors.


Due to resources constraints, ex-post controls conducted by the IGF on revenues and expenditure are
limited. About 75% of its time is devoted to other activities such as specific audit missions requested by the
Ministry of Finance in response to whistle-blowing. The numerous problems and irregularities detected in
its reports rarely lead to actions. Its staff receives little training and its procedure manual is very limited.
IGF's staffing, recurrent budget and equipment are inadequate. The late availability of its budgetary
allocations further disrupts its operations.

The Court of Auditors appears to be ineffective in controlling the performance of accounting and financial
officers ("comptables" in the French public finance system). The last management account, relative to the
1991 Budget, was submitted to the Court of Auditors in 1994. No "Loi de réglement", a financial bill that,
by law, is required to provide the profile of the budget execution and is essential for oversight, has so far


                                                      - 32 -

been submitted to the Court of Auditors. However, the Court of Auditors conducts selective thematic
controls at its own initiative.

The Public Expenditure Reform Credit (PERC) has identified options to remedy these shortcomings.

II. OBJECTIVES OF THE PROGRAM

In the context of the program, specific objectives have been determined in terms of: (i) economic reform
program for 2001-2003, (ii) budget reform, (iii) procurement procedures reform, (iv) control and audit
systems, and (v) performance indicators improvement.

A. Macroeconomic objectives of the program

The macroeconomic and social objectives set by the government were:

    -   Real economic growth no less than 5 to 6%, with investment increasing to 20% of the Gross
        Domestic Product (GDP);
    -   Inflation rate of about 3%;

    -   External current account deficit of 6% of the GDP;

    -   Overall budget deficit of 4% of GDP;

    -   Significant improvement in the main social indicators (health, education and adult literacy, social
        protection, water supply, environment and sanitation).

    Regarding structural reforms, the program aimed at:

    -   Completing State's retrenchment from public enterprises in the telecommunications, energy and
        water sectors as well as the sale of SONAPRA's industrial assets;

    -   Diversifying agriculture production by promoting and assisting the emergence or development of
        sub-sectors, especially pineapple, cassava, cashew nuts and oil palms;

    -   Pursuing the public service reform and accelerating the decentralization process;

    -   Adopting and enforcing the national anti corruption policy designed jointly with all stakeholders.

B. Budgetary Reform

Under the budget reform program, the government will:

    -   Introduce performance-based budget through clearly defined program-budgets consistent with a
        Medium-term Expenditure Framework;

    -   Delegate public expenditure management authority from the Ministry of Finance and Economy to
        the line Ministries and later to decentralized levels of government within a stronger fiduciary
        framework (sound budget management).




                                                   - 33 -

    -   Computerize the expenditure system.

C. Improving Procurement Procedures

The program is designed to enhance transparency in procurement procedures through:

    -   Publication of contracts awards and creation of a specialized procurement newsletter;

    -   Further dissemination of the Procurement Procedures Manual;

    -   Institutional capacity building with respect to procurement, contracting out infrastructure works
        and encouraging the emergence of new executing agencies;

    -   Updated reference prices database to better assess unit costs.

D. The Control and Audit System

Measures must be taken to make internal control and audit systems (Financial Control, Directorate of
Inspection and Internal Audit, Finance General Inspectorate, Court of Auditors) more effective and to
modernize public sector management while making it more efficient.

E. Improving Performance Indicator

Implementation of the program would help:

    -   Shorten the procurement time frame:

        ·    For contracts financed by the national Budget from eighty (80) days in 2001, to seventy (70)
             days in 2002, and to sixty (60) days in 2003.

        ·    For externally financed contracts, from seven (7) months in 2001, to six (6) months in 2002,
             and to five (5) months in 2003.

    -   Shorten payment time frame from twenty-five (25) days in 2001, to twenty (20) days in 2002, and
        to fifteen (15) days in 2003;

    -   Publish contract awards for 2001, 2002 and 2003;

    -   Achieve a budget execution rate for each PERAC ministry of 90% in 2001, 95% in 2002 and
        2003.

With respect to reporting deadlines for PERAC ministries:

    -   Reports for the first six (6) months should be available by the end of September;

    -   Annual reports should be made available no later than March 31 of the following year.

III. RESULTS OBTAINED IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
REFORM ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM OVER THE 2002-2003 PERIOD.


                                                    - 34 -

From 2001 to 2003, results from the program implementation were overall satisfactory.

A. Macroeconomic Aggregates

    -  A 5.0% real growth rate was achieved in 2001 due to low food production in certain regions. In
       2002, growth increased to 6% mainly because of a bumper cotton harvest, while investment rate
       dropped from 18.4% in 2001 to 16.1% in 2002;

    -  Inflation, contained at 4% in 2001, fell to 2.4% in 2002, despite an increase in food prices and
       rising tariffs for public services. The current external deficit stood at 6.7% of the GDP in 2001
       and at 7.5% in 2002;

    -  The overall budget deficit was 4.2% of the GDP in 2001, falling to 3.7% in 2002.

B. Budget Execution

There has been considerable improvement in the budget management system.

    -  The new expenditure system is operational and payment authority (function of "ordonnateur" in the
       French system) is now deconcentrated. Each ministry has been delegated its own payment authority
       ("ordonnateur délégué" in the French system) to commit, settle payment, and issue payment orders
       for the ministry's expenditure and to ensure prompt and efficient payment. Payment authority is
       delegated to the ministry's "ordonnateur délégué" by the Minister of Finance, who is the only
       principal payment authority ("ordonnateur principal" executing the national Budget. the actual
       payment authorizing officers within each ministry are the Administration Director (DA), the
       Financial and Material Resources Director (DRF), and the Administrative and Financial Director
       (DAF). These senior financial staff have also been delegated the power to manage their ministry's
       budget appropriation by their Minister, who by law is the actual administrator of the ministry's
       budget appropriation.


    -  Financial Control is deconcentrated and strengthened. Each ministry and department has now its
       own Financial Controller vested with wide-ranging powers to verify the regularity of expenditures.
       Deconcentrating financial control within ministries has resulted in a more efficient use of budget
       appropriations.

    -  To improve and better monitor the management of public financial resources, and to comply with
       accepted principles of public finance management, attempts were made to align accounting and
       budget procedures for externally financed projects and debt servicing procedures on budget and
       accounting procedures. In this context, the Director General of the external debt management
       agency (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA)) is the external mobilization authority
       ("ordonnateur délégué de la mobilization des resources extérieures") as well as the payment
       authority ("ordonnateur délégué des dépenses") for expenditure towards debt repayment and
       CAA's operation.

    -  Budget execution is supported by a computerized Integrated Public Finance Management System,
the SIGFIP, which ensures:




                                                  - 35 -

  1.      Transparency in public finance management;

  2.      Reliability of financial, budget and accounting data;

  3.      Availability of reliable statistics in real time;

  4.      Faster processing;

  5.      Liquidation of payment by authorized officers directly from their own desks,

  6.      Permanent monitoring of budget execution;

  7.      Automation of tasks formally performed manually.

- To that end, over 2900 officers were trained in the use of SIGFIP and fourteen (14) sites were
  connected in 2002 to the SIGFIP platform. The 2003 work plan to connect Ministries is well
  underway.

- In early 2000, procurement code implementing orders were signed following the adoption of the
  procurement code that sets out a regulatory framework for competition. Thus, the National
  Procurement Board and its Permanent Secretariat have been established and are now operational.
  As a first step, contract awards were published in a national newspaper, La Nation.

- Subsequently, they have been published in a procurement newsletter that has been created in
  February 2003, improving governance in procurement.
- To improve the budget execution rate, ministries are increasingly subcontracting infrastructure
  works to executing agencies.

- The government has an updated reference prices database that makes it easier to assess unit costs
  and to monitor overall procurement indicators.

- For internal auditing, Internal Audit Directorates (DIVI) have been created in each ministry, with
  the mandate to guide other services and promote conservative budget practices. They certify the
  accuracy and reliability of the information contained in the performance report of their ministry.
  They also provide an interface between their ministry and the Court of Auditors in the audit
  process.

- Ex-post controls have been reinforced. The General Finance Inspectorate (IGF) now conducts
  systematic audits instead of reacting to whistle-blowing.

- Both the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Court audit the performance of line Ministries on the
  basis of their implementation reports. In this context, a pilot performance audit of the 2000 budget
  was conducted in five pilot Ministries. The 2001 audit is well underway.

- With regard to overall performance indicators, the procurement time frame for externally financed
  contracts has been considerably reduced from eight (8) to four (4) months.

- The average time for the payment of expenditures ha fallen to about (20) days in 2003.
  Domestically financed capital expenditures are paid out of imprest accounts, which shorten the


                                                - 36 -

       payment time frame compared to the normal procedure.

C.     Structural Reforms

There have been some delays in implementing structural reforms, and the pace of implementation is uneven.

   -   It has been decided to sell separately each of SONAPRA's industrial units and tender documents
       have been prepared for the sale of each unit. The revised calendar is currently being implemented.

   -   SBEE's financial recovery plan has been prepared in 2002 and is being implemented. In this
       connection, measures have been taken to raise and adjust tariffs, to reduce losses in the power
       network and to improve the audit system.

   -   A reform framework for the electricity sector and a privatization timetable have been drawn up
       with the assistance of the World Bank.

   -   The government strategy is to open the electricity division of the Société Beninoise d'Electricité et
       d'Eau (SBEE), Benin's water and electricity utility, to the private sector by offering a concession
       contract. Following the government's decision to separate the electricity activities from the water
       activities, the Société Nationale des Eaux du Benin (SONEB), the new water authority, was
       created by decree in June 2003. The concession contractual documents are currently being
       prepared.

   -   In the telecommunications sector, government's decree of January 31, 2002 provides the legal
       framework to separate postal and telecommunication activities in the current Office des postes et
       télécommunications (OPT), Benin's post and telecommunications parastatal, and set up a
       regulatory agency. The decree relative to the regulatory body is being adopted by the government.

   -   Regarding the Port of Cotonou, the government has agreed to open up port management to the
       private sector. However, there have been delays in implementation the strategy due to opposition
       from the Port's trade unions. Negotiations with unions are underway.

   -   In the cotton sector, an autonomous agency, the Centrale de Securisation des Paiements et de
       Recouvrement ((CSPR)) which brings together cotton producers, ginners, importers and
       distributors of inputs, oversees the marketing of seed cotton and coordinates payment of seed
       cotton by ginners to producers with the repayment of input credit by producers.

   -   In the area of civil service reforms, the strategy adopted by government includes a new
       performance-based promotion and compensation system. The drafting of necessary legislation was
       delayed due to amendments requested by the Constitutional Court to the National Assembly, to
       meet objections raised by trade unions over some of the intended procedures. In the meantime, the
       government is replacing retiring civil servants with fixed-term contractual personnel.

   -   The decentralization process is underway. Municipal and local council elections were held in
       December 2002 without a hitch. In order to facilitate the delegation of credit management,
       formally centrally administered, studies on the modalities and cost of the devolution of authority to
       local governments have been finalized. Regulatory legislation relative to a budget and accounting
       framework for local government budget management has been drafted.




                                                   - 37 -

   -  Finally, in the area of good governance, a strategic anti-corruption plan was adopted in 2002 and is
      being implemented. Action was undertaken to strengthen the public control organizations: The
      Court of Auditors, the General Finance Inspectorate, the Department of Internal Audit and the
      Cellulle de moralisation de la vie publique, a unit mandated to maintain integrity and ethical
      behaviors across the public sector.

D. Budget Management in Line Ministries

   -  Performance-based budgeting, which was introduced in 2000-2003, has now been implemented in
      ten ministries: Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education; Ministry of Public Health; Ministry
      of Public Works and Transport; Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries; Ministry of the
      Environment, Housing and Urban Development; Ministry of Mining, Energy and Water Supply;
      Ministry of Industry, Trade and Employment; Ministry of Justice, Legislation and Human Rights.
      These ministries have shifted from resource budgets to program budgets.

   -  Moreover, the preparation of program budgets has improved in 2002 as they are now linked to the
      Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). This has improved the forecasting of short term
      expenditures which can now use anticipated developments in domestic and external resources. The
      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) provides a reference framework that links the contents
      of program budgets to key government objectives and plans.

   -  It is envisaged that three-year performance-based "budget contracts" be signed between the Budget
      Directorate and some of the technical directorates in line ministries.

   -  In May 2002, a policy matrix designed to monitor budget programs was developed and applied to
      the 2002 budget of some ministries to assess the relevance of their program and the consistency of
      their logical framework.

   -  Steps have been taken for other ministries to join in subsequent fiscal years. The number of
      ministries adopting this approach will increase to thirteen in 2004;

   -  There has been a marked improvement in health infrastructure coverage (about 80% in 2001).
      From 2000 to 2001, the use of health services rose by two percentage points. Furthermore, there is
      significant change in other health service indicators. HIV/AIDS prevalence was less than 6% (4.1)
      in 2002.

   -  The government focuses its efforts on basic education, notably primary and lower secondary
      education.

   -  A more coherent policy has been introduced to promote women's status, provide special social
      protection for children in difficult situations, as well as for the disadvantaged, the handicapped, the
      elderly and the refugees.

   -  Water supply rate has increased from its 61% level in 2001.

   -  Environment and sanitation measures were adopted to raise public awareness of environmental
      issues especially in Cotonou. They include:

      1. Mounting an intensive IEC (Environment Information, Education and                   Communication)


                                                   - 38 -

             campaign through the private and public media as well as the institution of a monthly
             Environment Day (J.M.E.S.) to foster clean environment. Steps were also taken to raise public
             awareness about environmental damage and the need for remedial action.

        2. Keeping cars in tune media campaigns have been conducted in the cities of Cotonou and
             Porto-Novo to promote among drivers the need for appropriate maintenance and tuning of their
             vehicles as part of anti atmospheric pollution efforts.       As a result, 6360 vehicles were
             inspected, 3459 of which polluted the air prior to tuning i.e. 54% and 2160 of which polluted
             the air after tuning i.e. 33%. Considerable reduction in pollution by four-wheel vehicles was
             noticed.

        3. Several training sessions of mechanics have been organized to hone their engine tuning skills.

        4. A National Land-use Planning Paper (DEPONAT) has been prepared and adopted by the
             government and thematic surveys have been launched in the context of the formulation of a
             Land-use Master Plan with international technical assistance.

        5. Land improvement of the Calavi and Agblangandan sites has progressed well with the
             construction of about 1000 low cost housing units on the Abomey-Calavi site and the
             completion of four (4) primary road paving and upgrading packages.

IV. PROSPECTS

Several multilateral and bilateral development partners have joined in the implementation of the PERAC.
In particular, the African Development Bank has designed a special program to support such an in-depth
budget reform.

Over the period under review, Benin has received 69.9 billion francs CFA as part of budget support.

However, given the ambitious nature of the program, effectiveness has been uneven across its main
components. Hence the disparities in the performance levels of the various institutions involved. However,
streamlining medium term expenditure programming in the public sector is a major gain from the program.
The experiment must be pursued more methodically and more vigorous measures to build national
capacities within central and technical ministries as well as other relevant institutions must now be adopted.


Government efforts alone are not enough to achieve the expected objectives. Development partners who
have not yet lent their support to the PERAC should be encouraged to do so. Also, financial partners
should strengthen their partnership with government to improve donor               coordination, as better aid
predictability is a prerequisite for a sound budget framework with a view to developing sound program
budgets,.

On the whole, weak capacity continues to constrain the pace of implementation in the expenditure system
and the quality of budget programs and monitoring and evaluation reports. Under such circumstances,
PERAC should be pursued and capacity building improved to ensure that its "monitoring and evaluation"
component become more operational and that program budget execution effectively complies with the new
approach.




                                                    - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Progress in Implementing the PERAC, 2000-03



   Progress in Implementing the Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit (PERAC), 2000-03

The Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit (PERAC) was a single tranche operation to support a
comprehensive public expenditure management reform in 2001 (and extended to 2002 and early 2003 with a
supplemental credit). The following table describes to what extent the benchmarks set in 2000 for
subsequent adjustment credit were met.


                                    Progress under the PERAC

          Benchmarks                  Status                           Comments
Formulate       medium       term Fulfilled  with Consolidated medium term expenditure framework
expenditure   framework,    2002- delay,          (2003-05) reflecting PRSP priorities was submitted
2004, based on PRSP program.                      to the National Assembly together with the PRSP.
Strengthen formulation of sector  Fulfilled  with Most sector strategies in pilot ministries were
spending strategies as basis for  delay.          updated recently or are being updated: health sector
reinforcing program-budgets in                    development      strategy    (2001),  the    National
each pilot ministry.                              Environment Management strategy (2001), and
                                                  Agriculture and Rural Development strategy (2001);
                                                  rural water and sanitation strategy and transportation
                                                  and public works are being updated.
                                                  Medium-term program-budgets were prepared and
                                                  submitted to the National Assembly in 2001 and
                                                  2002 for pilot ministries.
Present a 2002         budget to  Fulfilled.      2002 budget focused on: (i)           expanding the
National Assembly that is more                    productive base, (ii) allocating HIPC resources to
strongly oriented toward growth                   priority actions in line with the PRSP under
and poverty reduction ­ in line                   preparation, (iii) increasing the expenditure share of
with the PRSP, including a                        key sectors such as health, education, and rural
growing share of expenditures                     water. The 2003 draft budget submitted to National
and   increased   efficiency  and                 Assembly reflects broadly PRSP priorities.
targeting in key sectors.
Monitor    execution     of 2001  Partially       Budget implementation was monitored on a quarterly
budget on semi-annual basis, with fulfilled.      basis;   program-budget indicators were not well
aim of achieving program-budget                   specified and monitored; deviation between budget
indicators and of minimizing gap                  approved and spent was reduced to 6 percent in
between     voted    budget   and                 2001 against a target of less than 10 percent but
expensed budget.                                  deteriorated in 2002 to 10 percent (against a target of
                                                  less than 5 percent).
Respect performance criteria with Fulfilled  with Procurement delays have been reduced on average
respect to public procurement,    delay.          from 8 months in 2000 to 4 months in 2002 against a
aiming to minimize delays and to                  target of 5 months in 2003; A specialized bi-weekly
maximize transparency (including                  paper publishing calls for bidding, evaluation of bids,
publication of all public bidding                 and bidding results, was launched by the Ministry of
results).                                         Finance in February 2003.
Chamber of Accounts to effect a   Fulfilled.      A "performance audit" of the 2000 program-budgets
"performance audit" of the 2000                   of the five pilot ministries was completed on a pilot
program-budgets of the five pilot                 basis in 2002.
ministries.




                                                 - 40 -

Additional Annex 10. PERAC: Overall Budget Management Indicators, 2000-02



 Objective              Target                 Definition                      2001                      2002


Reduce        From 8 months in 2000 to Average time between                < 6 months.                 4 months.
Procurement   7 months in 2001, to 5   deadline for submitting
lags.         months in 2003.          bids and the notification to
                                       the beneficiary.

Reduce        From 30 days in 2000 to  Average time between the              23 days.                   22 days.
payment       25 days in 2001, to 15   payment request by the
lags.         days in 2003.            beneficiary and the actual
                                       transfer of funds by the
                                       Treasury.

Publish all                                                                                   A specialized bi-weekly
bidding                                                                                       paper publishing calls for
results.                                                                                      bidding, evaluation of bids,
                                                                                              and bidding results, was
                                                                                              launched by the Ministry of
                                                                                              Finance (February 2003).

Reduce        Maximum of 10 percent in                                      94 percent.                90 percent.
deviation     2001 and 5 percent in
between       2002.
budget
approved
and spent
(by
ministry).

Submit        Five pilot ministries.                                          Done.                      Done.
budget
implementat
ion reports
quarterly.

Produce and   Five pilot ministries.                                Annual monitoring and     Annual monitoring and
publish                                                             evaluation reports        evaluation reports produced
monitoring                                                          produced and submitted to and submitted to the
and                                                                 the Chamber of Accounts   Chamber of Accounts with
evaluation                                                          with more than one        more than one quarter delay.
reports in                                                          quarter delay.
the first
quarter of
the following
year.




                                                     - 41 -

- 42 -

