Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3479-1 BEN 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 6, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3479-1 BEN 
(Amendment) 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 6, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit) dated April 19, 2001 
(the Development Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the 
execution of the structural adjustment program as described in Recital (A) of the Development 
Credit Agreement (the Program); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional assistance in 
support of the Program to help in meeting its increased financing requirements caused by an 
unanticipated decline in the international price of cotton, by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,600,000); 
and  
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by: 
(a) 
substituting the period at the end of paragraph (b) by a semicolon and adding 
the word “and” after such semi-colon;  
(b) 
adding the following paragraph (c) reading: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“(c) 
‘Amending Agreement’ means the Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement (Public Expenditure Reform Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and 
the Association, dated November 6, 2002.” 
 
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million 
four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,400,000) (the 
Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 7,800,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) an additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 7,600,000) (the Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.03.  Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement 
is amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following  proviso
reading: 
 
“; provided, however, that any commitment charge on the Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Amending 
Agreement.”  
 
Section 1.04. Section 2.07 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read 
as follows: 
“Section 2.07. (a)  In respect to the Initial Financing and subject to 
paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal 
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15 
and September 15 commencing September 15, 2011 and ending March 15, 
2041. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
March 15, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.  
(b)   
In respect to the Additional Financing and subject to paragraphs (c), (d) 
and (e) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 
commencing March 15, 2013 and ending September 15, 2042. Each installment 
to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2022, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), 
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive 
years the level established annually by the Association for determining 
eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraphs (a) and (b) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in 
this paragraph (c) have occurred, provided, however, that 
there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on 
such repayment of principal. 
(d) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (c) above to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest 
at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
 
(e) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (c) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule 
of installments as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.” 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until evidence 
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the execution 
and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly 
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions 
satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of 
the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the 
evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and effect 
by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this Amending 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement shall 
terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall 
continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective names 
in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BENIN 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Cyrille 
Oguin 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
 
