-~~~~~ 0
Document of
The World Bank
rILE cOPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6837-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
January 19, 1988
Brazil Country Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =  Cruzado
CZ$1.00           =  US$  .056 (March 1987)
US$1.00           =  CZ$17.9   (March 1987)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZCIL
NORTHEAST ENDMKIC DISUSE COWTROL PROJECT
&SAFF APPAI SAL REPORT
Table of Contes-to
LOANAND PROJECT SUMMRY  ....  ...............   iii
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS  . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   vi
DEFINITIONS   . . . . . * .           .*. .........    vii
1.  COUNTRY  RAM DEVLOPMET  ...................                            1
A.  Population, Health, and Nutrition  . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  The Major Enuewic Diseases .                                 I.....   .O.S...  1
C.  Institut-ons, Policies and Resources for  ndui; Diseasea
Control  . . . . . .  . .  . . .      .  .  .  .  . . . .  a .      . 3
Do   Issues   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  a  .  .  a  *  a  *  *  * a   *  *  .  .  *  *  *  *  6
S.  Country and Bank Goals and Sector Lending Strategy . . .    6
II. THEP zCET   *0  * ** . . . *0 *               * * *   ..*...... . .    7
A.  Project Concept and Objectives . *.  .  ..  .  .             7
B.  Project Areas  000  *..*       * ..ee. *  0                  8
C. Main Features  a *      .........*....... .. . . . . .        8
D.  DetailedDescription..................    10
III. PROJBCT COSTS AND 7IIANCING  .*.. .     ............    16
A.  Project Costs  .... . . . . . .   a * * * * .   * * * * .    16
B. Project linancingPlan.................    17
Co Procurement  ...... . . . . . . . . . . . .   a a  .         18
D.  Disbursements  . . . . . . .        ... *. . ... .          21
I. Accounts and Audits  ..     .................    22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Dr. 0. Echeverri (Mission Leader) and Messrs. A. Zufliga, and 1. Coll
(Consultants), who visited Brasil in August 1987.
Thb document ha a rstcedk dbutn and may be ud by r4*eatsol In te pefonce n
of tl okic dutis Its connts my n  oterwI be dicosd wiout Wodd Bank wathodatlon



- ii m
IV.  PtOJECT ORGANIZATION AND INPLMEUTATION . .  ..........                 22
Project Organization and Managemeat  . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Iustitutional Streugtheniag of SUCAW . . . . , . , . . . . .   25
Status of Project Preparation  . . . . .. ,.......               26
V.  PROJUCT BEN  FITS AND RISKS  . . . ...............    26
A. Realtb uad Snviroumental Impact  . . . .  .....26
B.  ProjectBisks   ....*. .         .......    . . . . .R.   27
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . * e * * * .                  28
1 - Epidemiological Data on Northeast Endemic Diseases
2 - Safe Vse of Insecticides
3 - Commumity MobilizLtion
4 - Project Implementation Data
5 - AIDS component
6 - Project Costs
7 - Schedules of Disbursements
8 - SUCAM and Project Unit organizational Cbarts
9 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Pile
- IIRD  20434



- iii -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST  IDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJ8CT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJNCT SJMK
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Project Executing   Ministry of Health - KOH, Superintendency of Public Health
Agency:             Campaigns - SUCAM.
Amounts             US$109.0 million equivalent
Term:s              Repayment in 15 years. including 3 years of grace. at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
trolect             The project's main objective is to control three major
Objectives:         disesases (Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis. and
leielbaniasis) by reducing the prevalence and intensity of
human infection in the population at risk of Brazil's
Northeast, and to improve health status and productivity. An
additional o1jective is to support MOB activities to reduce
the occurrence of AIDS cases.
Project             The project includes five components: a) Prevention and
Description:        Centrol of dimnse transmiasiom, involving epidemiological
mapping. surveys, screening for disease. treatment of cases.
and vector control; b) Cb ity Mobilization. including
organization of community groups for participation in
disease control activities. i.e.. elimination of vectors; c)
Operational Research. including well identified studies
aimed at solving practical problems in the control of
Chagas, schistosomiasis. and leishmaniasis; d) Institutional
Dbnelo aunt. including the strengthening of SUCAM's
administration and human resources; improving its data
processing capabilities; establishing an Information,
Education, Communication unit. IEC; and construction of
facilities for the Regional Directorates; e) JIDS Control.
including a mass media campaign on AIDS prevention, testing
of blood supply and donors, and health staff training.
Beneficiaries:      Approximately 30 million at-risk people--small farmers, poor
peasants and urban families in the ten states of the
Northeast-will benefit from the project.



- iv -
Project              Three major benefits are ezpected from the project:  (a) a
Benefits:            substantial reduction of the risk of contracting Chagas'
disease. schistosomiasis and leishmatiasis and thus
substantial reduction of morbidity and lisability due to
these diseases; (b) savings on medical and hospital care
costs and gains in productivity of the labor force: and (c)
improvements in SUCAM's management, administration, and
efficiency of endemic disease control programs. with a spill
over effects in the efficiency of controlling other endemic
diseases such as rabies. trachoma, malaria etc.
Project Risks:      Low salaries, and harsh and at times dangerous working
conditions may hamper SUCAM's efforts to contract the
required staff to carry out the project field operations in
a timely fashion. These risks have been specifically
addressed in the project design. through hiring of staff by
municipalities, thus allowing for payment of better wages;
financing wages and improving per diems for field work,
which would make the Job more attractive; and providing for
training on safe use of pesticides.
Estimated Costs:
ZPAML - MIM BWC DISMS OCR    PIOJ
Clzmms of UB)
~~~~~~~~1U                        v-=  r    T OE~L~  FM=   ENI X Tmm 
I      -       QmI                I  1L~CL   I ~Q4   I  ¶UIL I EmuI=  am  M
I         I          I          I         I        Ier
3   ~~~~~(  WOM                  3,0    1  735.     M1        1   4691       12 
II.  CDDKkh5 W CnQ       A 1FiECSDSIQI   33,069.7!1  73,508. h    156,573.1 1   46.9S    78.2 1
3         -3                           I          I     t                   I        I
IIn.  mOImJII Pn-nM               1  7,673.6 1   2,909.3 1  10,58.9 1   27.23S   5.3 1
I                               . I          1          I          I        .I       I
IIJ U ENL  EE9bRl                 1   1,275.0 1    225.0 1   1,500.0 1   15.A(I    0.7 1
I                                 1          1            II                I        I
liv.  VISE   niL   DIsa           I  2D,l1S.8 l  3,570.6 3  23,754.4 1   15.CV    11.9 1
IV.  CONW     & PHffUiC   iW  AMDS  I  6,129.9 1   1,647.6 l   7,777.5 1   21.221    3.9 1
I                 .               I          I 3 -I    I                -        -
flurL BW  COr                     I 118,311.3 1  1,8§5.9 I 20D,l7.9 1   40.9 1   100.01
I                                 I          I          I          I        I        I
!PI IL              CtIC  1I  6,455.0 1  4,665.1 1  11,110.0 1   41.9 1    5.0 1
Imw CDiDNE S                      I  3,826.8 1  2,922.4 1   6,749.2 1   43.3 1    3.2 1
3                                 1          1          1          3        I        I
IITJW. PM=JCF c4sr                1 12,593.1 1  89,433.4 1 21B.087.1 1   41.0 1   108.2 t
I                                 I          I          I          I        I        I



*                             ~~~~~- v
Finacing Plan:
Local        Foreisn      Total
-U- 86 million-
Federal Government                            109.0           -         109.0
TiBD                                           19.6           89.4      109.0
TOTAL                               128.6           89.4      218.0
= ==
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank PT:    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual       8.0   16.5   25.5   26.0   22.0   11.0
Cumulative   8.0   24.5   50.0   76.0   98.0  109.0
Estimated Project Completion Date:       June 30, 1993
Estimated Rate of Returns                Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Reports                  No. 6837 BR
IBRD 20434



-vi -
LO8SARY OF ACRONYMS
CEMI           Central de Ifedicamentos
Drugs Distribution Center
CIPLAN         Interministerial Committee for Planning and Coordination
COPLAN         Coordenadoria de Planejamento
Plauning Coordination unit
DIRuS          Diretorias Regionais -BUCAM
Regional Health Directorates
FIOCRUZ        Funda9ao Inastituto Osvaldo Cruz
Oswaldo Cruz Institute Foundation
FSE1P          Fundagto Servi;os de Safide Pgblica
Foundation for Public Health Services
IVAN           Instituto Nacional de Alimentalo, e Nutrig8o
National Institute of Food and Nutrition
1AHP8          lstituto Nac4t,il de Assistencia Medica e Previdencia Social
National Institute for Social Security and Medical Assistance
MOD            Ministry of Health
QPAS           Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social
Ministry of Social Security and Welfare
PARD           Panamerican Health Organization
UES            8ecretaria de Zstado da Safde
State Secretariats of Health
SOPF           Secretaria de Or9amento y Programa9to Financeira
Secretariat of Budgeting and Financial Programming -MOR
SUCAM          Superintendencia de Campashas de Saedd  PEblica
Superintendeuce for Public Health Campaigns



- vii -
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate              :   Number of births per 1.000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate              :   Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Incidence Rate                :   The number of persons contracting a disease
as a proportion of the population at risk,
per unit of time usually expressed per 1,000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate         :   The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1,000 live
births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth       :   The average number of years an infant would
live if the current age/sex-specific
mortality trends prevailing at the time of
birth were to continue.
Maternal Mortality Rate        :   The number of deaths to women who die due to
pregnancy and childbearing complications in a
given year per 100,000 live births in that
year.
Morbidity                      :   The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Prevalence Rate               :   The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk. Usually expressed per
1,000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural Increase      :   The rate at which a population is increasing
(or decreasing) in a given year due to a
surplus (or deficit) or births over deaths,
expressed as a percentage of the total
population.
Total Fertility Rate          :   The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if
she were to pass through her childbearing
years conforming to the age-specific
fertility rates of a given year.



NORTREAT ENDUIIC DISAUSE CONTROL PROJECT
I. COUNTRY REALTE DEVELOPMENT
A. Population. HPalth. and Nutritiou Status
1.01      Brazil's population of about 136 million (1986) is young and
unevenly spread over the country's 8.5 million km2, with densities ranging
from two inhabitants per km2 in the state of Amazonas to 56 per km2 in the
Southeast. The popula%Aon growth rate has declined from 2.52 (1965-73) to
2.3% in the 1974-83 decade, and is expected to drop to 1.8 X by the year
2000. Heavy migration (1.5 to 2 million per year) of rural poor to urban
areas affected all regions, including the Northeast, which doubled its urban
population in the last 30 years. Total fertility declined from 6.1 in the
1960s to 3.6 today.
1.02       In the country, health conditions are generally poor, considering
Brazil's overall level of development. Life expectancy at birth is 65
years, or comparable to Colombia and Mexico, countries with lower per capita
income than Brazil. Infant mortality (67 per 1000 live births), is
significantly higher than for Colombia and Mexico (48 and 50, respectively).
In most parts of the country, diarrbea and respiratory infections are the
leading causes of infant deaths, followed by perinatal causes.
1.03      In the Northeast (37.2 million inhabitants), health status is the
lowest in the country as reflected by a low life expectancy at birth of 51
-ears, an infant mortality rate of 125, and an exceptionally high prevalence
of endemic infectious diseases (sohistosomissis, Cbagas' disease,
tuberculosis, letsbmeniasis, malaria and leprosy). About 471 of children
under 5 years of age have some degree of malnutrition, and 14% have moderate
to severe malnutrition. In the 15-44 age group, the main causes of illness
and death are acute and endemic infectious diseases, accidents and
violence. Cbronic diseases, mainly heart diseases, cancer and stroke,
account for the bulk of deaths in those over 45. Most of these health
problems (except endemic diseases) are addressed in the Northeast Basic
Nealth Services-I and II Projects (the last under preparation).
B. The Major Endemic Diseases
1.04      A significant portion of Brazil's territory is located in the
tropical zone, where the environment is rich in vectors and reservoirs of
comunicable diseases, which have become endemic due to its pervasive
presence and to limited efficacious treatment and control measures. The so-
called major vector-borne endemic diseases in Brazil are malaria, yellow
fevsr, schistosomiasis, Chagas' disease, and leishmaniasis. Migration,
opening of uew agricultural frontiers, and irrigation programs have greatly
increased the transmission of these diseases. Overall, an estimated 352 of
Northeasternets suffer at any one time from one or more of these endemic
diseases and perhaps 651 of them are at risk. This morbidity greatly



- 2 -
affects sehool attendance and labor productivity, and raises health care
costs.
1.05      Chagas' disease - American trypanosomiasis -  is transmitted
tbrough the biting and immediate defecatiou of infected triatomineae (a
blood-sucking bug) on the bumau skin, and through infected blood
transfusions and transplacental infection.  Cardiac and cerebral involvement
are life-threatening or fatal manifestations; main chronic sequelae are
beart failure and dilation of the esophagus and colon. Disease reservoirs
include infected persons and many domestic and wild animals sucb as dogs,
cats, pigs, bouse rats, and foxes. Four species of triatomineae vectors
exist in 2,000 municipios of the Amazon basin and the Northeast states.
In rural Cear6, one out of 10 houses is infested with the vector bug
(karbeirol. About 6 million chagasic patients exist in Brazil today, of
wbich 601 live in the Northeast; 15 million people are at risk of
contracting the disease, without considering those at risk tbrough infected
blood transfusions (20,000 new cases per year) and transplacental infection
(Annex 1, Table 1).  In  so Paulo and Minas Gerais, 31 to 5% of blood
donations come from chagasic patients. Outside the capital of Minas Gerais,
one of the most disease-stricken states, 46Z of blood banks do not test
donors for Chagas' disease. Improvement of housing and living conditions is
a long-term approach for the solution oi the problem. At present, in the
abseuce of vaccines and drugs suitable for large-scale treatment of Chagas'
disease, interruption of transmission must rely on vector and blood
transfusion control, which have been proven successful in medium-scale
trials in Brazil and other countries.
1.06      Schistosomiasis, a parasitic disease, is acquired from water
containing free-swiming larval forms (cercariae) which have developed in
snails and penetrate the human skin. Liver fibrosis, splenic enlargement,
ascites, and fatal intestinal obstruction are frequent complications in
chronic infections. The relationship between the intensity of infection and
severe morbidity has been confirmed. Three species of snails (intermediary
hosts) exist along the Northeast Atlantic littoral And in other focal areas
throughout the country, where 30 million people are at risk of contracting
the disease (Anex 1, Table 4). About 8 to 10 million of Brasitians are
infected, and prevalence in the Northeast may range from 121 in Bahia to 231
in Pernambuco. In some communities the prevalence reaches 801. During the
last twenty years, migration of infected persons within the country has
greatly expanded the contaminatiou of soil and waters where snails exist,
thus increasiAg the prevalence of schistosomiasis. The Brazilian Program
for Schistosomiasis Control has been successful in using chemotherapy and
selective mollusciciding, but still, more knowledge on the epidemiology of
the disease and widespread control measures are required to achieve
effective control of the disease.
1.07      Leishmaniasis, a dreadful protozoal disease, is transmitted
through the biting of infected phlebotomies (sand flies). Main reservoirs
include man dogs, and rodents. The main manifestations are ulcerating
lesions which may be single or multiple involving the whole skin and the
mucocutaneous tissues (Cutaneous leishmaniasis); visceral involvement,



- 3 -
especially of the liver and the spleen, if untrested, is usually fatal
(visceral leishmaniasis or Kala azar). Both foams of the disease exist in
vast areas of Brazil, and in all Northeast ret a (Annex 1, Table 5). The
vector (sand fly) and main reservoir (infected dogs) exist throughout the
Northeast, including many urban areas. A serologic survey shoved that all
Northeast states have infected dogs, with a prevalence ranging from 12 in
Paraiba to 50% in Piaui (1985). Control activities were reduced in the last
decade, thus leading to an alarming increase of new cases in recent years:
between 1979 and 1985, the number of reported new cases has sky-rocketed
from 3,243 to 16,200 per year; 95% of these cases were reported in the
Northeast. Unreported new cases may easily triple this figure. Over 8
million reople are estimated to be at risk. Safe and effective drugs and
vaccines for large-scale treatment of leisemaniasis are not available.
Interruption of transmission must rely p,rimarily on vector control, through
elimination of sand f'ies and domestic reservoirs such as infected dogs.
1.08      The Auto Imunue Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) is a new fatal viral
disease that is creating a serious public health problem due to the
explosive propagation in the country. As of January 1987, Brazil reported
an increase of 267 new cases in only 4 months, bringing tho total number of
cases to 1,012 (the third largest figure by country, after USA and France).
The risk of contracting the disease is particularly high in Sao Paulo and in
Rio de Janeiro where 20% (207) of AIDS reported cases have occurred via
blood or plasma transfusions. The only effective measures available are
preventive and consist basically of wideepread education on ways to avoid
coutamination, and blood screening for AIDS carriers (Armex 5).
C. Institutions. Policies, and Resources for Endemic Disease Coantrol
1.09      The two major, public health sector institutions are the Ministry
of Health (MOE) and the National Institute for Social Security and Medical
Assistance (INAHPS) which belongs to the Ministry of Social Security and
Welfare (NPAS). MOR is responsible for setting national health policy and
collective health programs. MPAS is respousible for individual medical
care, including hospital care for patients with endemic diseases. In the
Northeast, the MOR has normative and legal authority and develops health
programs in cooperation with State Secretariats of Health (88). The
Superintendency of Public Realth Campaigns (SUCAK) is a semi-autonomous
organization under the MOR's authority (see para 1.11). Other NOR federal
institutions involved in endemic disease control are the Special Public
Health Services Foundation (ISISP) which under agreements with the MOR/SUCAK
develop housing improvements and sanitation works in designated endemic
areas; and the Osvaldo Cruz loundation (FIOCRUZ) involved in research,
technical assistance, training, and laboratory support to SUCAN.
1.10      Poligies. The  Government's interest in redressiug the critical
bealth situation of the Northeast is reflected in policies and strategies
addressing basic health problems of the poor: (i) control of transmissible
diseases, especially endemic diseases and vaccine-preve.table ones; (ii)
maternal and child care, including family planning; (iii) ambulatory and



-4-
hospital care with priority for high risk groups. Nutrition and sanitation
are priorities with separate strategies. The 1986-89 National Development
Plan (NDP-I) has included the control of endemic diseases as a sector
priority, particularly Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, aud
malaria. Improvement of surveillance activities, and expansion and
modernization of the Public Health Laboratories network, were also
considered. Now, the Government has requested Bank support to address the
growing and widespread problem of endemic diseases, through the
strengthening and expansion of the field operations and the institutional
development of SUCAN. Also, due to the fast growing AIDS problem, the
Government requested support for the nationwide AIDS preventive progrim,
including use of mass media, training, and blood testing for AIDS.
1.11      The Suverintendencv of Public fealth Campaitns - SUCAM:  One of
the MOR federal institutes is SUCAM, a well-organized semi-autonomous
superintendency, in charge of endemic disease control. With about 30,000
employees and a 1987 budget of US$200 million, SUCAh is characterized by the
strong loyalty aad dedication of its staff, its remarkable field experience
and work discipline, and the gsarit de corps, especially of the field staff.
SGCAM is particularly active in the Northeast and Northwest.  In the 70s,
SUCAM implemented one of the world's most effective programs for controlling
schistosomiasis (PUCE). SUCAM's good record in implementing disease control
programs, in spite of resource constraints, ensures that it will efficiently
and effectively carry out this project. SUCAK's enabling regulations were
established by the Portaria (ministerial resolution) No. 161, May 1976; its
central organization involves a Coordination unit and five Departments (see
Annex 8, Chart 2).  Planning, programming and budgeting is made in Brasilia
by the Planning, Budget and Control Coordination unit (COPLAN), from
propcials prepared by its 26 Regional Directorates in the state capitals and
worked out with the 80 District Offices. The Department of Endemic Disease
Control (DECEN) is responsible for the execution of all endemic disease
control programs, and it has specific Divisions for Chagas' disease,
schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis control. The Department of
Administration (DA) deals with all aspects of logistical support, including
transport, communications, supplies, maintenance and repairs. The financial
administration is under a separate department (DAF), wbose organization and
operation follow the Ministry of Finauce's guidelines. The Department of
Personnel (DP) deals with recruitment, selection, training, legal and career
development aspects, and is organized according to the Ministry of Public
Administration's guidelines. The 26 Regional Directorates located at the
state capitals report to the Superintendent but are tecbnically subordinated
to DECEN.
1.12      Presently, the three main central management issues are: (a)
obsolete logistics; (b) insufficient budget leading to weak logistical
support and obsolete equipment; and (c) administrative fragmentation among
vertically executed programs leading to duplicatiou of functions and
unwieldy management. Also, the Regional Directorates confront serious
problems: a) about 30-35X of the field staff for Chagas' disease,
schistosomiasis and leishmaniasis control has been cut due to budget
constraints, and other 35% of persomnel has been relocated to control the



vector of yellow fever; b) inadequate physical facilities for admiuistrative
support, staff training, storage of supplies and equipment, maintenance and
repair of vehicles (para 1.13); c) inefficient accounting practices in
management of goods and supplies (requesting, purchasing, storing, ordering,
distributing); (d) unsuitable data processing; (e) lack of audiovisual
equipment for comunity mobilization and for supervision activities; and (f)
recent appointment of regional directors based on political party grounds
more thau on managerial ability.
1.13      Facilities.  SUCAM headqgarters are located in Brasilia.  About
one half of the 24 buildings for regional directorates and one fifth of the
80 district offices are rented. In the Nortbeast, seven of the ten
buildings for the regional directorates are rented houses, where office
equipment and space for laboratories, storage, and maintenance of vehicles
are limited.
1.14      Xanopwer:  About 30,000 health workers are currently employed by
SUCAM throughout the country. For each major endemic disease control
program, they are organized in teams of five guards (least skilled field
workers) under the leadership of a chief-guard; a group of five teams is
subordinated to an inspector of endemic control, and a group of five
inspectors is coumanded by a general inspector; a group of five general
inspectors is.subordinated to a professional in charge of a particular
disease control program (this organization provides for constant and
effective monitoring and supervision). These professionals are under the
management of a regional director with office at the state capitals, and
finally, regional directors are subordinated to the SUCAN Superintendent.
Recently, the outbreak of dengue and the threat of new cases of yellow fever
in urban areas require4 the relocation of about 7,500 workers from other
SUCAN programs for emergency control operations, thus weakening the
operations in other fronts, particularly in schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis,
and Chagas' disease control. The existing deficit of personnel to cover the
Northeast with all control activities for major endemic diseases is
estimated at about 9,500 field workers.
1.15      Pronram  Coveraae:  Endemic disease control programs bave been
curtailed in the past ten years. The Chagas control program covers the
2,050 municipalities in 19 states identified as endemic areas by the Cbagas#
first national serologic survey (1981); bowever, only 414 (202) of those
municipalities came under epidemiological surveillance in 1986, and more
than 60X of blood banks do not screen donors for Cbagas# disease due to lack
of laboratory resources and technical staff. The estimated 6 million
chagasic patients are treated by the state or INAMPS health services. Nine
of the 12 states with endemic schistosomissis belong to the Northeast, and
nearly 602 of the endemic area (mostly in Bahia and Minas Gerais) is not
covered with the SUCAN's program due to lack of resources. Program
activities to control leishmaniasis vectors are restricted to small spot
areas in the Northeast representing less than 25Z of the endemic area,
despite the fact that vectors and reservoirs are found all over the region.
Because of this insufficient coverage, the Government has requested



-6 -
financial assistance to ensure an effective control of these diseases in the
Northeast.
1.16      Budgets:  SUCAM's resources have been reduced by 302 during 1981-
85, despite the steady increase of endemic diseases in the country. It is
only in the 1986-89 National Development Plan-I that increased financial
provisions have been made for endemic disease control in the amount of
US$765 million for 1986-89. This is 3.52 of the total budget for the health
sector including INAMPS/14PAS and NOR. The four-year budget provisions for
each major disease control program are as follows: malaria control US$265.5
million; yellow fever/dengue control US$204.4 million; Chagas' disease
control US$192.7 million; schistosomiasis control US$52.1 million; and for
other endemic diseases (leishmaniasis included) US$50.2 million. These
resources only finance less than one half of a'l control programs necessary
to cover the population at risk living in endemic areas.
D. lsueo
1.17      Poor health status is one of the major issues confronted by the
Government in the Northeast. Endemic diseases are responsible for a
considerable number of sick and disabled people (paras. 1.05 to 1.08) with
direct impacts such as low labor productivity and high costs of medical and
hospital care. Sustainabilitv of vector control activities and of screening
for disease in target populations has become a critical issue in the
Northeast's endemic disease control programs. In the recent past,
interruption of these activities due to insufficient financing has led to a
huge setback in progress. Unsatisfactorl community resuonses to avoid risks
of getting infected and to stop furtber spreading of endemic diseases have
also been a problem. In fact, large groups of people appear to maintain
behavioral patterns conducive to infection, despite warnings and full
knowledge of the risks implied in traditional habits or practices. ThMs
administrative frasmentation of SUCAM programs precludes an efficient
operation of disease control activities. Use of nesticides for vector
control may raise concerns of environmental protection lobbies and constrain
spraying against triatomineae, snails, and sand flies. Finally, lejal
constraints to hiring nersonnel in the public sector, as imposed by the
decree No. 91403 of 1985 and the law No. 7493 on elections norms, have
hampered the development of effective endemic disease control programs in
the Northeast.
B. Country and Bank Goals, and Sector Leandina Stratety
1.18      Brazil's health development strategy may be summarized as follows:
a) extension of basic health services, including family planning and
zutritVon activities to target populations; b) strengthening of programs to
control endemic diseases; c) cost-containment and reduction of waste and
fraud in INAhP8 services; and d) improvement of inter-agency coordination
and strengthening of the role of state and local governments in the
administration and delivery of health services.



1.19      Bank's health sector work in Brazil started more than a decade
ago, with the inclusion of health components in Northeast rural development
projects. The Bank's first free-standing health project in Rondonia was
designed to improve access to basic health services, control malaria, and
support applied research in tropical diseases, particularly malaria.
Project implementation has experienced few difficulties, except for the
malaria control component, which was overwhelmed by the tremendous increase
of malaria in the Amazon Basin. A special action program was set up last
year to solve these problems, and a free-standing malaria control project is
under preparation. The second health project, approved by the Board in June
1984, is supporting the development of a new model of Basic Health Services
in the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo. A major purpose of the Sao Paulo
Realth Project is to demonstrate that a basic health services approach can
successfully address Brazilian urban health care needs in a cost-effective
manner, leading to replication elsewhere in the country. An additional loan
was also approved in June 1984 to finance the National Health Policy Studies
to help the Government to better define medium-term sector policy and
objectives. A third health project, approved by the Board in May 1986, is
intended to improve basic health services in the Northeast. Other projects
would be considered in the coming years: a project for controlling malaria
in the Northwest (see above), and a follow-up project on basic health
services for completi.g the coverage of priority areas in all the Northeast
states.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Concept and Obiectives
2.01      Concent.  This project is designed to assist the Government in a
five year program to arrest the increasing trends of three endemic diseases
(Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis) in the Northeast, and
reduce their prevalence to levels where they no longer constitute a public
health problem. To achieve this goal, the project will: (i) control the
presence of disease vectors and intermediary hosts in the households and
neighboring environments, by applying pesticides, and promoting health
education; (ii) rpduce the human reservoir of these diseases by early
diagnosis and treatment of target population groups; and (iii) set up
surveillance activities for populations at risk.
2.02      Obiectives.  The main objective is to reduce the prevalence of
Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis and leishmaniasis and thbe intensity of
human infection to minimum levels where only epidemiological surveillance
activities are needed to keep these diseases under control (see quantitative
targets in para 2.05). The main beneficiaries will be the school-age
children and the agricultural labor force, whose health status and
productivity would be improved. A second objective will be to strengthen
SUCAN's capacity and efficiency to expand the control activities in the
Nbrtheast. A complementary objective will be to support the NOR activities
in reducing the occurrence of new AIDS cases.



B. Proiect Areas
2.03      The project will include about 1,018 municipalities infested by
vectors in the nine Northeast states of Maranhio, Ceara, Rio Grande do
Norte, Piaui, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, 8ergipe, and Bahia; plus
sections of Minas Gerais (See Map IBRD 20434). The estimated population at
risk to be covered by the project is 30.0 million for schistosomiasis, and
8.4 million for leishmaniasis. Laboratory facilities for Chagas' disease
control wiil cover 12.2 million people living in chagasic areas of the
Northeast and three other states outside the Northeast.
C. Hain Features
2.04           The project involves five components: three directly
addressing the prevention and control of transmission of Chagas' disease,
schistosomiasis and leishmaniasis; the fourth one addr'e3ing the
strengthening of logistical and managerial capabilities of SUCAM; and the
fifth one, addressing the reduction of new AIDS cases.
2.05      Prevention and Control of Disease Transmission (PCDT).
(US$170.5 million total cost):  In a five year period, this component aims
at reducing: (i) the incidence of transfusional Chagas' disease by 80X; (ii)
the prevalence of schistosomiasis to about 5S of present levels; and (iii)
the incidence of visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis by 70X and 501
respectively.
2.06      Chagas' Disease: to control transfusional Chagas, the project will
establish a network of 12 Regional Laboratories, one of which will also be a
Central Reference Laboratory (CRL) in Minas Gerais, to test for Chagas'
disease in blood donors and in cbagasic carriers (asymptomatic patients);
and for serologic surveys of Chagas' disease for monitoring the human
reservoir in endemic areas. In addition, the project will complete the
equipment of a reference laboratory for biological studies of Chagas'
vectors, and will hire three clinical doctors for a pilot basic care program
for Cbagas' disease.
2.07      Schistosomiasis:  to reduce the prevalence of this disease the
project activities will include: (i) applying molluscicides in selective
areas to control snail reproduction; and (ii) performing stool tests in
population groups to diagnose and treat all positive cases; and performing
stool surveys as part of program evaluation and surveillance activities.
The project will also complete the equipment of a laboratory for
malacological (snail) studies.
2.08      Leishmaniasis : to reduce the incidence of the visceral and
cutaneous forms of this disease, the project activities will include: (i) an
entomological survey in endemic areas and spraying of houses and neighboring
places with DDT for controlling sand flies; (ii) household visits for
serologic testing of dogs, and elimination of those found to be positive,
and identification of suspected human cases for further diagnosis and



- 9 -
treatment; and (iii) periodic screening of dogs and strengthening of the
case-reporting system. To achieve these activities the project will finance:
2.09 (a)  The equipment of 22 regional serologic laboratories, (12 for
Chagas' disease and 10 for leishmaniasis); the expansion of a
Central Reference Laboratory (CRL) for quality control of lab
standards, and training; and the equipment of 2 laboratories for
vector research (for Chagas and for Schistosomiasis);
(b)  hiring of about 385 higher-level staff and 2,820 other-level
staff, and training of about 520 higher-level staff and 3,270
other-level staff;
(c) acquiring about 65,250 kilograms of Niclosamide; 2.2 million
kilograms of DDT 75% concentrate and 123,000 kilograms of DDT 1001
concentrate; 18 million capsules and 86 thousand bottles (240 c.c.
each) of oxauniquine (praziquantel may be a substitute); and
(d)  contracting of about 100 man-months of technical assistance.
2.10      The Government has provided assurances that required new vehicles
(342 pick-ups, 4 trucks, 370 motorcycles, and 1,540 bicycles) included but
not costed in the project will be available.
2.11      AIDS Prevention and Control (US$9.3 million total cost).  The
project will support: (i) on-going activities in a multimedia AIDS education
campaign targeted at high-risk groups as well as the population at large;
(ii) a training program of health professionals in management, diagnostic
techniques and epidemiology of AIDS; (iii) epidemiological studies in AIDS
prevalence; and iv) the equipping of regional laboratories for blood testing
and quality control of blood transfusions.
2.12       Community Nobilization (US$11.5 million total cost).  The project
will promote community participation in the control of vectors and
prevention of disease by developing information, education and communication
(IEC) activities including interpersonal communications with school children
and other special groups, and massive community outreach by using
television, radio, newspapers and printed material. For these activities,
the project will finance:
(a)  acquisition of furniture and equipment for 10 regional offices
including audiovisual equipment and power generators for 22 pick-
Ups;
(b)  purchase of 23 videocassette sets; 23 overhead projectors; 14
slide projectors; 14 photographic cameras; 10 electronic copiers;
and 14 tape recorders;
(c) contracting the production, distribution and broadcasting of TV
spots; radio jingles and spots; still fibls; and variable
quantities of posters, calendars and flip charts;



- 10 -
(d) hiring of 1 Information, Education, Commwnication (INC)
specialist; hiring and training of 47 field workers;
(e) contract 20 man-months of INC technical assistance.
2.13        ODerational Research (US$ 1.5 million total cost).
To solve practical problems in the disease control activities, the project
will finance research dealing with the following subjects: (i) Biological
control; (ii) lab tests; (iii) vaccine testing; iii) epidemiological studies
to test the effectiveness of other interventions including behavioral
changes; and (iv) cost-effectiveness studies. The scope, relevance,
duration, and applicability of research studies have been defined in an
agreement satisfactory to the Bank between SUCAI and the Oswaldo Cruz
Foundation and signed on October 27, 1987.
2.14       Institutional Develogment (U8$25;2 million total cost).
To improve SUCAM's field facilities, logistics and program management, the
project will:
(a) construct and equip 6 8UCAh's regional directorates and 19 local
(district) offices; upgrade 11 SUCAM's regional and loc.sl
facilities; remodel 15 spaces for serologic laboratories, and 2
training centers; and furnish and equip 2 training centers and the
part of 8UCAM central offices related to project management;
(b) hire and train about 94 professionals and 38 technical level staff
for SUCAM headquarters and the 10 regional directorates;
(c)  acquire 40 Lovibond kits (for toxicity tests), and develop 1
seminar, 2 training courses, and one or more refresher seminars
(in five years) on safe use of pesticides, for all SUCAM staff
(Annex 2);
(d) contract 48 man-months for technical assistance.
D. Detailed Description
Prevention and Control of Disease Transmission (PCDT)
2.15      The strategy for prevention and control of these three endemic
diseases includes three well-defined phases: Prenaratorv Phase: consists of
a detailed mapping of infested areas including the plotting of each house;
epidemiological assessment of vectors or intermediary hosts distribution;
and cost estimates of inputs, i.e., pesticides, drugs, staff, etc., for a
feasible operational plan. This phase has been completed during project
preparation. Intervention Phase: consists of field operations including ISC
activities, applying pesticides for vector control, elimination of animal
reservoirs, and mass screening and treatment of human cases. Igrveillanc-
Phase: includes annual evaluation of disease prevalence and case finding of
vectors and new patients in the treated area (active surveillance), and



- 11 -
compulsory reportiog of vectors and/or new cases (passive surveillance).
Each reported new case will be subject to a full enquiry leading to
identifying sources of infection and immediate treatment. SUCAM will
monitor key performance indicators as a mechanism to improve operations
efficiency (Annex 4, Table 9).
2.16   Chamas Coutrol : Vector control (screening for infected triatominae,
household spraying, entomological surveys) is currently financed by
FINSOCIAL and patient treatment is handled by the state and INAMPS health
services (para. 1.16). This project will finance only the surveillance
phase consisting of blood testing for controlling transfusional cases of
Chagas' disease (about 200 thousand blood tests), screening for cardiac and
gastrointestinal complications in chagasic carriers (about 1 million blood
tests), and monitoring of disease prevalence in the endemic area (about 205
thousand blood tests). Because the ELISA lab technique used for Chagas
diagnosis is also suitable for AIDS testing, and due to the growing problem
in Brazil, this project will finance additional capacity for AIDS testing
(see Annex 5). To achieve this, the project will:
(a) set up and equip a network of 12 regional serologic laboratories
with a capacity for processing 50,000 blood samples per year,
using WHO criteria for serum lab tests for Chagas' disease. Each
one of the 12 laboratories should function as a reference
laboratory at regional level; the one located in Belo Horizonte
will serve also as a Central Reference Laboratory (CRL) and will
review 10X of negative tests and 1001 of positive tests, and
maintain other quality control standarts in the lab network.  This
CRL will also maintain quality control arrangements with the
international lab network for tropical diseases sponsored by
WMITDR. The physical space for the 12 labs and the CRL will be
provided by the State Health Secretariats (SE8), under agreements
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.39).
(b) establish a screening program for Chagas' disease in a population
sample of 30X of the children 7-9 years old, living in 2,000
endemic municipalities. The total number of screening tests for
Chagas will be 200,000 a year;
(c) perform indirect immunofluorescence tests (IIF), indirect
hemagglutination tests (IIA), and ELISA tests for Chagac
diagnosis; identification of risk factors and of cardiac and
gastroenteric complications in about 1 million suspected chagasic
carriers. All reference laboratories will be equipped and staffed
to perform these three lab tests;
(d) develop a training program including I seminar on the epidemiology
and control of Chagas' disease for cardiologists and 2 for
regional doctors; 5 seminars for biochemists and 3 for technicians
on the Chagas' disease control program and specifically on Chagas'
disease lab tecbniques and quality control.



- 12 -
2.17      Schistosomiasis Control:  The project will maintain current
activities in endemic areas under control with a population at risk of 14.2
million, and will expand them to new endemic areas, mainly in the states of
Bahia and Minas Gerais with a population at risk of about 15.7 million.
2.18      The intervention phase will consist of a stool test survey for
mass diagnosis in the populatiou at risk, using the quantitative Kato-Katz
stool test. When 602 or more of positive tests are found in a locality, a
mass treatment of the population over 1 year of age will be made, using a
single dose of oxamniquine of 15.0 mg/kg body weight for persons over 12
years old, and 20 mg/kg body weight for children under that age. (A
substitute could be praziquantel). When the number of positive cases is
between 42 and less than 602, then mass treatment will be restricted to the
population between 5 and 25 years old, which is normally the group with the
highest parasite load. If the number of positive cases is below 42, then
the treatment will be restricted exclusively to these positive cases. The
ecology of focal areab with more than 4X prevalence will be studied to
determine the snail strain and the feasibility of applying molluscicide.
2.19      Two consecutive evaluative surveys using the quantitative Kato-
Katz test will be made with a 6-moath interval, in localities selected at
random, for monitoring prevalence. After each evaluative survey, a workshop
will be held with community representatives, field workers and qualified
professionals for deciding on next steps in the strategy of disease control.
2.20      When the prevalence found is about 5% or less, the area will enter
in the surveillance phase. Case-finding of infected snails and new human
cases will be undertaken through selective field lab tests. Positive cases
will be treated and, if there is no improvement, the patient should be
referred to the basic health services of the state Secretariats of Health
for special studies. It is expected that some focal areas will remain
resistant to this strategy and therefore will be treated differently as
recommended by operational resear^h studies (para. 2.13).
2.21      It is estimated that about 14.7 million stool tests, 8.4 million
treatments and 100 thousand applications of molluscicide will be completed
in the five year period. Niclosamide will be applied only in well-
identified snail-breeding sites with epidemiological importance for
maintaining the schistosoma's life cycle. Sanitation workel, biological
control, and/or behavioral changes in the population at risk will be
supported by research studies (para.2.13) and by the mobilization of
communities (para. 2.29).
2.22      A training program will be developed including (i) a 6-month
training for three biochemists and 10 technicians in malacology, and a 3-
month course for three lab technicians; (ii) two 1-month seminars for field
laboratorists and one for field inspectors on lab techniques and quality
1. Sanitation works for endemic areas are being considered in a Bank-
financed Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program.



- 13 -
control; and (iii) two-week in service training for 123 chief guards, 202
lab auxiliaries and 953 extensiou agents, on field lab techniques and
epidemiologic procedures.
2.23      Leishmaniasis Control:   Control of the two types of leishmaniasis
(muco-cutaneous and visceral) vill be approacbed differently. Given the
difficulty in controlling the vectors and reservoirs of the muco-cutaneous
leishmaniasis, the control strategy for this form of the disease will be
restricted to improving the reporting of human cases for appropriate
treatment under medical supervision; the monit-ring of prevalence patterns;
selective entomological surveys; selective application of insecticides for
vector control; and elimination of infected dogs (reservoirs).
2.24      In the case of visceral leishmaniasis (Kala-azar), a simplified
entomological survey and a serological survey of dogs will be carried out in
areas covered by the project on the basis of the occurrence of human cases.
Based on these surveys, fiel4 activities will consist of household spraying,
elimination of sero-positive dogs, domiciliary visits for patient referral
for treatment, and health education.
2.25      The surveillance phase will start in areas where the prevalence of
infected dogs is 3% or less. Selective serological surveys for case-findiug
of infected dogs and clinical detection of suspected human cases will be
carried out by field workers and health practitioners. It is expected that
all districts included in the program will enter in surveillance at the end
of the fourth year of field activities (Annex 4, Table 4).
2.26      To achieve this stage the project will undertake an estimated 20.6
mullion household visits, and 141,000 school lectures; 7.5 million serologic
tests in dogs; classification of about 110,000 sand flies from 72,600
suspected habitats; elimination of about 650,000 infected dogs; application
of 2.4 million house sprayings with DDT; and treatment of 40,000 new
patients with Glucantime.
2.27       The training program for leishmaniasis control will include:  (i)
a two-month seminar on prevention and control activities for 17 doctors;
(ii) a two-month seminar on lab tecbniques and quality control for five
biochemists, and 11 entomology technicians; (iii) a two-week training course
for 48 lab auxiliaries; (iv) in-service training of 1539 extension agents;
and (v) re-training of 58 lab technicians on leishmaniasis lab techniques.
Couaunitv Mobilization (CM):
2.28      This component will be carried out simultaneously with the
component for prevention and control of disease transmission. The SUCAM
experience is that without an effective participation of the communities
affected by endemic disease, the success in controlling them is limited.
The organization of community groups for participating in control activities
will be under SUCAM field personnel trained locally in group organization,
motivatior and communication. Emphasis will be placed on how to conduct
group meetings, use of audiovisual equipment and mass education.



- 14 -
2.29       A plan of action in each community affected by an endemic disease
will include: (a) a A  survey (knowledge, attitudes, practices, on endemic
disease control), with quick but relevant socio-economic data; (b)
mobilization of existing organizations and groups, (c) organization of new
ones when necessary, and (d) discussion of ways in which SUCAM and these
groups can work together in eliminating vectors and reservoirs of endemic
diseases, and how to prevent the transmission of these diseases in the
communities. Assurances were obtained that the KAP survey will be completed
by July 31, 1988 (para. 6.01 a). Implementation of (safe and practical)
innovative initiatives for vector control or disease prevention resulting
from these discussions and requiring small investments, will be financed by
the project (Annex 3).
2.30       For promoting community involvement in the control of endemic
diseases, SUCAM will strengthen its INC capacity by: (i) furnishing and
equipping with audiovisual materials the Health Education Section at
headquarters and at the regional directorates; (ii) contracting about 6 man-
months of technical assistance for procuring the production and broadcasting
of audiovisual materials, and 14 man-months for assisting in the initial
operations, supervis.,n, and evaluation; (iii) hiring 1 specialist in human
resource development for headquarters, and 21 middle level technical
officers with experience in health education or mass communication for the
regional directorates; and (iv) 22 field assistants/drivers during the first
year of project implementation. The headquarters Health Education Section
will develop 10 seminars for training regional and field workers in group
meeting techniques, use of audiovisual equipment and mass communication (see
Annex 3). Procurement and broadcasting of a mass media educational AIDS
program will be also financed (para 2.11).
Ooerational Research (OR)
2.31      To help in the solution of practical problems in controlling the
three diseases, the project will finance studies involving priority subjects
for research as described in para. 2.13. The Oswaldo Cruz Institute
(PIOCRUZ), a research center of excellence in the country, has entered into
an agreement with SUCAN for execution of this component. Assurances were
obtained durinf neQotiations that such agreement will be updated no later
than December 31. 1988. on terms satisfactory to the Bank (nara. 6.01 b).
2.32      A project research committee consisting of a FIOCRUZ senior
researcher, a SUCAM division director, and a specialist in tropical diseases
from a University will be jointly appointed by the SUCAM project manager and
the vice-president of FIOCRUZ. The committee members may change according
to the subject of the research proposal to be examined.
2.33      The committee will use four criteria to evaluate the research
proposals: (i) relevance for the control operations of the project; (ii)
scientific validity; iii) time span within the project timetable; and (iii)
costs.



- 15 -
Institutional Development Component (ID)
2.34        This component aims at strengthening SUCAM's managerial
capabilities to improve efficiency and logistical support for maintaining
and expanding control activities in the Northeast.
2.35      Organizational Strenzthenina:  The project would implement a plan
of technical assistance to improve SUCAM's central, regional and local
organization and management; work environment; staff capabilities; and
operations efficiency:
(a)  about 26 man-months of consultant services for improving
planning, organization, and management processes and tools (e.g.,
clearance procedures, document flow, administrative and
operational manuals, preparing an accounting system and setting up
an accounting manual for the project);
(b) about 2 man-months for review and compilation of the sanitary
legislation;
(c)  about 18 man-montbs for improving administration and logistics;
(d) about 2 man-months for improving efficiency of transport
operations;
Ce)  about 2 workshops in training of trainers and 2 seminars for
improving staff motivation and "conflict management", and for
promoting the exchange of successful experiences among the states.
The objectives of the proposed technical assistance are described in detail
in paras. 4.11-4.16. Terms of reference for five of the above consultants
have been prepared, and the remainder are in the process of being prepared.
2.36      Euman Resources Develoyment: SUCAM is understaffed and requires
{i) improvements in personnel administration including job descriptions,
staff selection, training and recruitment procedures; (ii) reoiganization of
training programs, improvement of manuals and training of trainers; (iii)
hiring by SUCAN through PAEO of 17 new staff for project management of which
9 will be professionals and 8 clerical staff; employment by SUCAM of 100 new
staff to strengthen the administration of 10 regional directorates, of which'
70 will be high level staff, and 30 will be secretarial staff; and 24 new
doctors seconded to the 8B8 to ensure the take-over of the screening and
surveillance activities by the 10 818 in the last year of project
implementation. This comuitment will be included as part of the agreements
between the 10 U88 and SUCAM (para. 2.39). PAWO has entered into an
agreement with SUCAM for hiring of consultants and key management staff.
Assurances were obtained durint negotiations that such agreemet will be
undated no later than December 31. 1988. on terms satisfactory to the Bank
Cpara. 6.01 c) The development of human resources also includes about 40
training courses for professional and technical staff which are described
for each disease control program (paras 2.16-d; 2.22; 2.27), and a training



- 16 -
plan for the AIDS program (Annex 5). Assurances were obt med durina
netotiations that the MOB will provide salary adiustments for the oproiect
professional staff, within the limits of the Brazilian law. and that labor
costs will be financed by the Bank on a declining basis. As described in
Dara 3.15 (para. 6.01 d),
2.37       Administrative facilities: In the Northeast and Minas Gerais,
SUCAM operates 10 regional administrative directorates in the state capitals
and about 40 local (district) offices, most of them in rented buildings
unsuited for administrative, technical, and logistical functions. As part
of SUCAM's strengthening, the project will construct, equip, and furnish the
administTative buildings for 6 regional directorates and 19 local offices;
and will upgrade 11 regional and local facilities. Regional directorates
have an average size of 4,500 m2 and include administrative offices; small
laboratories; library; warehouses; pesticide otock rooms; and mechanical
workshops (localization of these facilities are in Annez 4, Table 7). Also,
the project will complete the equipment of two training centers located in
Recife and Feira de Santana.
2.38      Before negotiations, SUCAM bad forwarded to the Bank draft
agreements acceptable to the Bank (a) between SUCAN and FIOCRUZ for
executing the project research component; (b) between SUCAM and PARO for
hiring consultants and key management staff; and (c) between SUCAX and the
State Secretariats of Health (888) for the provision of lab space and for
implementing medical care and surveillance activities of the project.
2.39      A condition of effectiveness is that the borrower shall have
entered into agreements with either (i) the SS of states coverins 5OX of
the agaresate area of all narticivating states: (ii) the $ES of vroject
states with an ainregate population not le  than 16 million: or (iii) thL
SBS of anv five groiect states. Given the estimated population at risk
(approximately 30 million), the number of participating states and the fact
that at least one of the three diseases covered within the project is
prevalent in any given part of a project state, satisfaction of any one of
these conditions necessarily ties project effectiveness to acceptance in at
least balf of the project states, area, population and/or number.
III. PROJECT COSTS AiD FINANCING
A. Proiect Costs
3.01       Summary of Proiect Costs.  The total cost in terms of the project
excluding taxes of US$9.4 million, aud including US$10.0 million of physical
contingencies and US$6.3 million of price contingencies, is estimated to be
US$218.0 million equivalent, of wbich US$89.4 milliou will be foreign
exchange. The distribution of local and foreign costs by component is
summarized in page iv of the Loan and Project Sumary, and a summary of
costs by project component, by year and by category of expenditures is given
in Annex 6.



- 17 -
3.02       Cost Estimates.  Estimated construction costs for the project are
based on unit prices derived from current contracts and cost analysis for
similar standards of construc'. on in corresponding facilities, with
adjustments of 51 to 101 for regional cost differences. Estimated costs of
equipment, furniture and vebieles are based on current c.i.f. unit prices,
adjusted to iuclude local transportation costs and, where appropriate,
installation costs. Estimated costs of consultant services a&W training,
which draw on recent experience, are based on current WHO/PAHO pay-scales.
Project cost estimates do not include any identifiable import duties or
taxes. Baseline costs in US$ were estimated at pre-appraisal (March, 1987)
when the official US$ rate was Cz$17.9 per US$. After that date, any
changes in number or price of project inputs, will be introduced directly in
US$ using the current exchange rate.
3.03      Coutiaencv Allowance.  The project cost includes physical
contingencies equal to 10 of the estimated costs of civil works, and 52 of
the estimated costs of other categories of expenditures. The project cost
also includes price escalation contingencies calculated for the five-year
period beginning January 1988. The following estimated annual rates of
international price increases are used in the calculation of price
contingencies: 1X for the period 1988-90 and 3.51 for the period thereafter;
this is in accordance with Bank guidelines. As it is difficult to
differentiate between price trends for manufactured goods, civil works and
technical assistance, the above estimates are applicable to expected price
escalation of all expenditures. The above estimated rates have been applied
to local and foreign costs as well, as periodic currency rate adjustments
based upon purchasing power parity would compensate the differences between
projected US$ inflation and local inflation rates. Prices are expected to
increase during the project implementation period by a total of about 3.11
of the total baseline cost, plus physical contingencies. Total
contingencies are estimated to be about 81 of the baseiiine cost.
3.04      Foreian Ex-hanae Comuoneat. The foreign exchange component is
US$89.4 million equivalent or about 411 of the total project cost. The
calculation of the foreign exchange component is based on the expectation
that: (a) all civil works will be contracted to local firms, (b) most of the
special lab equipment and drugs will be directly imported, (c) other
equipment, furniture, and reagents will be supplied by local manufacturers.
B. Proiect Financing Plan
3.05 The proposed loan of U8$109.0 million equivalent will finance 1002 of
the total estimated foreign excbange cost and 151 of the local cost of the
project. The loan will be for 15 years, including a three-year grace
period. The Bank loan will be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil,
which will carry the foreign excbange risk and provide counterpart funds as
necessary to complete the project.



- 18 -
FINANCING PLAN a/
Local      Foreign      Total
--(US$ million)-----
Federal Government     109.0         -           109.0
IBRD                    19.5        89.5         109.0
Total        128.5       89.5          218.0
a/ Includes physical and price contingencies. Excludes taxes.
3.06        Recurrent Costs.  The annual iucremental recurrent costs of the
project would be about US2.8 million during the first year of operation.
US$2.25 million during the second year and US$2.22 million in the subsequent
yr=rs, which would respectirily represent 3.62, 3% and 2.9% of SUCAM's
projected recurrent expendit. as in 1988. In view of the high priority
given to this project. SUCAM can be expected to meet these additional
expenditures.
C. PROCUREMENT
3-.07       Procurement under the Bank Loan is summarized in Table 3.1.
3.08        As the cost of the largest civil works is relatively small
(about US$1.0 million average for the new directorates) and construction is
dispersed over a large number of cities and small towns in the Northeast of
Brasil. it is unlikely that their construction will attract foreign bidders.



Table 3.1:  PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
US$ millions
I                                           PROCUREMENT  EtOD
I       'CATEGORY           -
I                            ICB      LCB      Other     I/A    TOTAL COST I
1-- ------I-                                                                -
I Civil Works                        13.0       2.0                15.0    I
I                                    (6.5)    (1.0)                (7.5)   1
I Equipment & furniture      4.0     11.0       2.5                17.5    1
I                           (4.0)    (5.5)    (1.25)              (10.75)  1
I Chemicals & Drugs         11.5     10.0      19.5 a/             41.0    1
I                          (11.5)    (5.0)   (19.0)               (35.5)   1
I                                                                           t
I IEC (Mass Media)                    7.5       1.0                 8.5    1
1                                     (3.75)   (0.5)               (4.25)  1
I                                                                           I
I Training & Tech. Assist.                      5.0                 5.0    1
I                                              (2.5)               (2.5)   1
I                                                                 .I
I Wages for Additional Other Staff b/          31.0     60.0       91.0    1
1                                             (15.5)   (16.5)     (32.0)   1
I Research & Innovative Activities              2.0                 2.0    1
I                     .                        (1.0)               (1.0)   1
i                                                                           I
I Incremental Operating Costs c/                        38.0       38.0    1
1                                                      (15.5)     (15.5)   1
I TOTAL                     15.5     41.5      63.0     98.0      218.0    1
1                          (15.5)   (20.75)  (40.75)  (32.0)    (109.0)   1
Note:  Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank.
a/   Includes $0.8 million for reagents and biologicals, $3.7 million for
niclosamicle, and $15.0 million for oxamniquine.
b/   The term "Additional Other Staff' means Other staff hired after
December 31, 1987 by SUCAM or a State or a Municipality, as the case
may be, for the purposes of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of this loan.
c/   The term "Incremental Operating Costs" means (a) wages for Righer-level
staff hired by SUCAN or a State, after December 31, 1987, to do field
work; (b) supervision expenses, including per diem and transport; and
fuel and vehicle maintenance sxpenses, for all purposes of the Project.
Therefore, contracts for new construction (total WS$13.0 million, including
contingencies) financed under the loan will be awarded according to local
competitive bidding procedures, which will be acceptable to the Bank and
will not exclude foreign participation. All other civil construction
comprising extension and refurbishing of existing facilities, estimated to



- 20 -
cost in total US$2.0 million equivalent, will be carried out by force
account in each Regional Directorate, through agreements between SUCAM and
the local Department of Public Works in each municipality, which will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank prior to their signing.
3.09      Equipment and furniture amounting to US$17.5 million equivalent,
including contingencies, vill be grouped, to the extent possible, in large
packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for equipment and furniture
in excess of US$250,000 will be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines of May 1985. Small items or groups of
items estimated to coo.t less than US$250,000 equivalent, or specialized
items for which ICB is not practical, will be purchased through LCB
procedures which would be acceptable to the Bank. These items will not
exceed an aggregate total of Us$11.0 million, or 151 of the total estimated
cost of goods and works, including contingencies. Readily available off-
the-shelf goods or standard specification commodities of not more than
US$25,000 in value could be procured through prudent shopping on the basis
of prices quoted by at least three local suppliers. Item so procured will
not exceed a total of US$3.5 million, or 41 of the total estimated cost of
goods and works, consisting of US$2.5 million of equipment and furniture and
US$0.8 for reagents and biologicals. Niclosamide (about U8$4.0 million) and
oxamniquine (US$15.0 million) have a single source of procurement, and
tberefore will be contracted directly from the sole manufacturer. Brazilian
legislation has prohibited imports of vehicles and computer bardware;
therefore these "reserved procurement" items were excluded from project
costs and from Bank disbursements. Durina negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the i)rocurement 2rocedures will be carried out as described
here and accordins to the Guidelines on Procurement under I8RD Loans and IDA
Credits of May 1985 (para. 6.01 e).
3.10      The selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
technical assistance will be in accordance with the August 1981 "Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency." Incremental operating costs include
US$38.0 million for incremental staff salaries, vehicle maintenance and
fuel, for which procurement is inapplicable.
3.11      For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB,
domestic manufacturers will be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of custom duty applicable to competing imports or 151 of
c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
3.12      The Bank will review and approve before contract award, all draft
bid documents and contracts for goods to be procured through ICB and the
first five contracts for procurement of goods under LCB. Prior Bank review
of procurement documentation and contract award recommendation will be
required for all new civil works construction contracts above the US$0.5
million equivalent. Prior Bank review of procurement docusentation will
cover 761 of total amount of goods and works financed by the Bank.



- 21 -
D. Disbursements
3.13      Health projects in Brazil have a good record of disbursements (the
Rondonia Health project is about to be completed in six years. and the Sao
Paulo Heilth project, with two and a half years of implementation is
expected to be completed as scheduled in four years). Because of SUCAM's
good record as an institution, its field experience. and the "campaign"
nature of the project, no major delays in disbursements are anticipated.
The disbursement schedule has therefore been maintained at five years.
similar to the project's timetable. The project Completion Date will be
June 30. 1993. and the Project Closing Date will be December 31. 1993.
3.14      The proceeds of the IBRD loan (Table 1, Annex 7) will be disbursed
as follows:
-    50X for civil works, including architectural fees;
-    100l   of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
equipment and furniture;
-    1001 of foreign expenditures and 501 of local expenditures for
cherical supplies and drugs;
-    50X for IEC (mass media) activities;
-    1002 of foreign expenditures for consultant services hired abroad
and 502 of local expenditures for training; local technical
assistance; research; and innovative activities;
-    35% of total expenditures for labor costs in a declining basis,
starting from 60% down to 25% as described in para 3.15.
-    41X of eligible operating costs.
No disbursements will be made against vehicles or computers.
3.15      Disbursements for local expenditures above US$200.000 equivalent
will be made after receipt of full documentation. except in the case of
civil works by force account; disbursements for goods and services provided
under contracts valued at US$200,000 equivalent or less for local currency
expenditures and US$50,000 equivalent or less for foreign expenditures will
be made against certified statements of expenditure (SON). The SOB will be
certified by the project implementing agency incurring the expenditure and
by the Department of Financial Administration (DAEI) in SUCAM headquarters
in Brasilia. in its capacity of Project Financial Administrator. Supporting
documentation will be retained by each implementing agency and DAFI, and
made available for inspection during Bank supervision missions and by
external suditors. Labor costs, including wages and supervision will be
financed in a declining scale starting at 602 up to an aggregate of US$5.0
million- thereafter 50% up to a total disbursement aggregate of US$11.0
million; thereafter 402 until a total disbursement aggregate of US$17.0



- 22 -
million; thereafter 302 up to a total disbursement aggregate of UB$ 22.5
million and 25X thereafter.
E.  Accounts and Audits
3.16      To facilitate Bank disbursements, two Special Accounts will be
opened. Funds could be moved from one to the other with Bank authorization
except that the Bank may make that transfer unilaterally at any time witbin
a period ending six months after the date of the Loan Agreement. (i)
Cruzado Expenditures Special Account (CEIA) will be opened in US dollars in
the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of up to US$8.0 million, withdrawn
from the loan account. Withdrawals from the CESA will be supported by 80E's
or required documentation as specified in para. 3.15, and payments will be
made at the Cruzado exchange rate that prevailed on the date of
expenditures, provided that the expenditures have been made within 90 days
before withdrawal is made from CUBA. Otherwise, the rate of exchange
applied shall be the one prevailing at the date of the withdrawal from CUBA.
(ii) To facilitate disbWirsements for foreign contracts and training abroad,
a Foreign Exchange Special Account (FE8A) will be established with loan
funds in dollars in a commercial bank abroad with an initial deposit of
US$0.5 million, which would be operated by SUCAM. Disbursement requests for
the replenishmeut of CESA and FESA will be submitted at agreed intervals.
3.17      The MOH's Secretariat of Budgeting and Finance Programming (SOPF)
will be in charge of allocating the project funds to SUCAM's sub-account.
SUCAM will channel project funds through its sub-account, from headquarters
to the respective Regional Directorates using a Banker's order. Project
funds will be managed by SUCAM's DAFI and will be clearly identifiable
within SUCAM's account to allow annual audits by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and according to procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
The Special Account at the Central Bank will also be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of SUCAN's and Central Bank's
audited statements will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. The auditor's report will include an opinion and
comments, as necessary, on the methods employed in compiling the statement
of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents,
their eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreement,
and the standard of record-keeping and internal controls related to the
foregoing.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Proiect Ornanization and Manatement
4.01      SUCAN will be responsible for overall project coordination and
control. SUCAM is a federal agency within the organizational structure of
the Ministry of Health (MOR) (see Chart 1, Annex 8) and therefore subject to
the legislation governing the administration of the public sector. Its
director, called Superintendent, is proposed by the Minister of Realth and



- 23 -
appointed by the country's president.   SUCAM is represented in eacb one of
the 26 states by a regional director whose appointment is proposed by the
Superintendent and made by the Minister of Health.
4.02      Project Orzanization:    The project will be located in the
Coordination Unit of Projects Management (COGEP). This unit was created by
the Portaria Ministerial No. 421 of August 27, 1987, and will depend
directly on the Superintendent (See Chart 2, Annex 8). This new
Coordination Unit satisfies the need for strong organizational positioning
of this project. COGEP will be hierarchically located at the same level as
the other departments (DECEN, Finance, Personnel, Administration) to benefit
from: (i) a direct reporting relationship to the Superintendent; and (ii)
the ability to draw on the expertise of the other departments. The
department's director will be appointed by, and report to, the
Superintendent and will be the project manager.
4.03      COGEP will be advised by a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC),
created for the purposes of monitoring the coordination of the project
components and evaluating the performance of the project's objectives. The
TAC is made up of the Superintendent, Department Directors, and the Division
Chiefs of the three endemic diseases included in the project, and will eet
on a quarterly basis to review the quarterly progress report prepared by
COGEP, and to provide advice on project implementation.
4.04      The SUCAM's Regional Director in each of the ten Regional
Directorates will be the project regional coordinator. Re will report to
the project manager on project matters and functionally to the
Superintendent.
4.05      Proiect Management.  At the federal level, the Superintendent of
SUCAM will be responsible for the execution of the project in accordance
with the project description contained in this report and conditions agreed
on and reflected in the Loan Agreement. He will delegate the authority to
manage the project to COGEP whose manager in turn will delegate parts of his
authority to the SUCAM regional coordinators at the state level.
4.06      Project objectives have been formulated and quantified during the
project preparation process. Strategies on how to achieve the stated
objectives have also been decided and would be subject to periodic reviews
based on results obtained. Within this context the Project Manager will
carry out the following activities:
(a)  Programing:  with the assistance of COPLAN, decide on a yearly
basis how programs and subprograms will be implemented and the
amount and type of resources to be devoted to each program, and
the ways in which these resources will be used;
(b)  Budgeting:  with the assistance of COPLAX, the programs will be
translated into monetary terms covering specified periods of time,
and budgets will be assigned to the regional directors who are
charged with executing the programs;



- 24 -
(c)  Operating and Accounting:  through DAFI records will be kept of
resources consumed and outputs achieved during the period of
actual operations. The records of resources consumed (costs) will
be structured so that costs are collected by programs. and the
recordo of outputo achieved will be the basis for monitoring and
evaluating the project's performance;
(d) Reporting and Analysis: reports will compare planned outputs and
inputs with actual outputs and inputs. Reports will be shared for
analysis on a regular basis with the Superintendent. TAC, MOH, and
for each state with the Regional Directors and Coordinators.
4.07      The Project Manager will be responsible for maintaining good
working relations with inter- and intrasector entities and organizations
which are directly or indirectly involved in the successful execution of the
project. e.g.. with the Ministries of Planning and Treasury for the flow of
external funds and project audits, with FIOCRUZ for the research program.
with State Health Secretariats for the coordination of case finding and
reporting, case treatment and follow up. A Project Manager acceptable to
the Bank has been appointed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the Bank will have an opportunity to coment on the qulications and
experience of any  ubsequentproject manaer (para. 6.01 f).
4.08      At the state Level, responsibility for implementing the project
will rest with each of the ten SUCAM regional directorates. The regional
director will be the project coordinator and will be responsible for
programming the state project actions and expressing them in a state budget.
supervising the operations and keeping records of resources consumed and
outputs achieved, and reporting planned and actual inputs and outputs.
Together with his regional and district staff. the project coordinator will
analyze the results on a regular basis and propose program changes to the
Project Manager, if warranted.
4.09      Incremental Management Staff.  Timely project execution will
require strengthening the management of SUCAM in general and of the project
in particular through adding and training staff in specific functional
management areas at three levels: the central level, the regional
directorate level, and the state health secretariat level. A total of 141
staff positions will be added of which 103 are classified as higher level
positions and 38 as middle level or clerical positions. The central level
(COGEP) will only be allocated 14X of the incremental staff and the large
majority (662) will be assigned to the regional directorates. To strengthen
the coordination and integration of program ezecution, the state health
secretariats will be provided witb resources to hire 24 physicians or 23S of
the higher level incremental staff.
4.10      Five functional management areas will be strengthened at the
central and regional directorate levels: personnel, materials management
and transport, budgeting and accounting, field operations, and social
marketing. The central level (COGEP) will also be staffed with a project



- 25 -
manager, two assistant project coordinators, oue research coordinator, one
civil works coordinator, and one technical assistance coordinator.
Institutional Strengtheninz of SUCAM
4.11      The project will finance technical assistance to prepare the
reorganization of SUCAM and to assist in its implementation. 8UCAM is
barely 15 years old and has grown rapidly to about 30,000 people, of which
22,600 work in field operations. This quick growth has strained its
outmoded structure and the original management systems and processes. Time
has come to take a comprehensive look at SUCAM's structure and management
and to adapt it to today's and tomorrow's needs. The project will provide
about 48 person-months of technical assistance in the following interrelated
areas: organizational design and general management, planning systems,
human resources development, logistics, transport, and supporting
legislation. Each functional area will work in close cooperation with
SUCAM's management information system which is being developed concurrently
and which would serve the needs of these areas.
4.12      Orgatization and Management of SUCA! (18 person-months):  to
propose mid-ternm and song-term alternatives to the present organizational
structure and management of SUCAM in order to make it a more efficient and
effective organization. Consideration will also be given to, igtel alia.
municipalization of SUCAM services and integration of some or all of its
services with the State Realth Secretariats. The intended outcome will be a
5- to 10-year forward plan with staged phases and an analysis of the
finaucial and legal implications. The initial implementation phase will
start in the third year of the project.
4.13      Plannina Systems (8 person-months):  to develop a planning,
budgeting and control model, including developing a project accounting
system, which will allow central and regional management to plan and control
SUCAM's performance on a regular basis. The anticipated outcome would be a
diagnosis of the current situation, a proposal for a comprehensive planning
system at the central level and the regional level, and a time-specific
implementation plan.
4.14      Administration and Logistics (18 person-months):  to define and
develop (i) types of training most appropriate to SUCAM' s evolving needs,
course contents, and teaching methodology and materials; (ii) alternative
recruitment mechanisms, such as, hiring staff through municipalities and/or
state health secretariats, contracting for services with private sector
firms; (iii) to improve management procedures and processes for timely
delivery of tools and ssipplies in sufficient quantities to the field staff;
encouraging of the incipient decentralization process to the levels of
districts and subdistricts, and for reducing and streamlining the number of
authorizations and request forms.
4.15      Transuort (2 person-months):  to make an inventory and a disgnosis
of SUCAM's transportation fleet and its problems, to propose alternative
organizational and legal arrangements for maintaining and repairing the



- 26 -
vehicles, such as, standardization of makes, contracting ror services with
municipalities, state governments or the private sector.
4.16      Letislation (2 person-months):  Legislation dealing with endemic
diseases has evolved piecemeal over a number of decades. This consultancy
will review all existing legislation and will compile in a single document
to serve today's legal needs of SUCAN.
4.17      SUCAM had coutracted by the time of negotiations, at least tvo of
the consultants described in paragraphs 4.14 and 4.15, according to the  nXk
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants of August 1981.
Status of Proiect Preparation
4.18      StICAM and the regional directorates already have capable managers
and key staff to initiate project implementation. The Government has given
high priority to this project, and SUCAN has appointed a team to complete
project preparation (Resolution NO. 1024, 12/12/86). The preliminary
drawings for new administrative facilities have been completed and found
satisfactory to the Bank. About 19 of 24 sites have been selected and
acquisition of land is under way. A procurement plan for LCB and ICB is
under preparation by the SUCAM's financial department. Terms of reference
for hiring consultants in logistics, and management have been prepared, and
contracting mechanisms through PAHO are in place, according to Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)." At pre-appraisal, it was
agreed that all these initiating activities will be considered for
retroactive financing up to an amount of US$1.5 million. The project design
and costs estimates have been compieted. Project field activities will
start in at least three regional directorates by July 1988.
V. PROJECT BENBFITS AND RISKS
A. Health and Environmental Imnact
5.01      Health Impact:  Three major benefits for about 30 million
Northeast poor peasants, small farmers and urban dwellers are expected to be
derived from this project: first, a substantial reduction of the risks of
acquiring Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis. An external
effect will be the reduction of rabies and malaria due to elimination of
dogs and DDT spraying for controlling leishmaniasis; second, a substantial
reduction of morbidity and disability due to those diseases is expected; and
third, savings on medical and hospital care costs and gains in productivity
of the labor force will also be important.
5.02      A fourth benefit will be the increase of SUCAI's efficiency due to
the strengthening and improvement c! management, administration and
logistical operations. The institution-building effect of the project will
be at least as important as the direct health benefits since it will have a



- 27 -
spill over effect in the efficiency of controlling other diseases such as
yellow fever, malaria, bubonic pest, and trachoma.
5.03        Bnvironmental impact:  Although the project will use two
pesticides, namely DDT end Niclosamide, no negative environmental impact is
foreseen since the amounts to be used are minimal in comparison with those
used in agricultural projects. and the areas to be sprayed witb those
pesticides are small. Usage of DDT as a residual indoor insecticide causes
no environmental contamination and does not constitute a health risk.
Niclosamide will only be used in sites carefully selected as to avoid risks
of water contamination. Furthermore, the project includes continuous
training activities on safe spraying techniques and surveillance of
pesticide use and manipulation. The OPN 11.04 on "Guidelines for the
Selection and Use of Pesticides in Public Health Prog_ams in Bank Financed
Projects" have been followed in the preparation of this project.
S. Project Risks
5.04      In the past, SUCAM has had difficulty recruiting and retaining
staff because of: (i) low salaries as a federal agency; and (ii) the barsh
and at times dangerous working conditions in the field. During project
preparation strategies to insure the employment of all field staff required
for successful control of the three diseases in question were discussed.
These included (i) the possibility of contracting out specific tasks to the
private sector; (ii) the hiring by municipalities. which are not subject to
federal salary scales and whicb can pay higher per diems and hardship
allowances. of field staff; and (iii) the hir5ng of some staff by the state
health secretariats. which are also not sub$- . to federal salary scales
(states already recruit 172 of tbe higher level incremental staff Epara.
2.361). SUCAM plans to use all these strategies. With respect to
amunicipal hiring, the project preparation staff has classified the 1.018
municipalities included in the project into three categories according to
administrative capacity to recruit personnel. SUCAM estimates that by the
end of the first semester of project activities, about 650 contracts would
be signed between SUCAM and those municipalities with good administrative
capacity (Category I); and of the 390 municipalities with weak
administrative capacity (Category II) two thirds (260) will be provided
teehnical assistance to hire field staff. SUCAM will hire directly for the
third category of municipalities. This strategy will be in line with the
country's municipalization policy.
5.05      Moreover, at negotiations assurance was obtained that, if
necessary, the Govermet will arrange for contract staff to be hired by
states and municipalities (allowin for payment of better wages, higher per
diems for field work and hardship allowances), with reimbursement by SUCAM
to states and municipalities from Loan proceeds (para. 6.01 g).



- 28 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) The KAP survey including socio-economic data will be completed by
July 31. 1988 (para 2.29);
(b) terms of the agreement between SUCAM and FIOCRUZ for execution of
the operational research component of the project will be updated
no later that December 31, 1988. on terms satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 2.31);
(c) terms of the agreement between SUCAM and PAHO for hiring of
consultants and key management staff will be updated no later that
December 31. 1988. on terms satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.36);
(d) the MOH will provide salary adjustments for the project
professional staff, within the limits of the Brazilian law, and
that labor costs will be financed by the Bank on a declining
basis, as described in para 3.15. (para 2.36);
(e) the procurement procedures will be carried out as described here
and according to the Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits of May 1985 (para 3.09);
(f) the Bank will have an opportunity to comment on the qualifications
and experience of any subsequent project manager (para. 4.07).
(g) strategies to support the hiring of workers by municipalities and
states will be implemented (para. 5.05).
6.02      The following is a condition of effectiveness:
(a) the borrower shall have entered into agreements with either (i)
the SES of states covering 50% of the aggregate area of all
participating states; (ii) the SBS of project states with an
aggregate population not less than 16 million; or (iii) the S3 of
any five project states (para. 2.39).
6.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$109.0 million to the Ministry of Health of the
Federative Republic of Brazil. to be repaid over a period of 15 years.
including three years of grace.



29-                             A4M     I
BRAZIL
PORTNIAST INDIVIC DISIABi CONTROL PROJECT
CIAGAS' DISEASI
ESTINATED PRIVALINCB Al STATS: IRAZIL (1976-81)
STATS          I POPULATION   IIZPSCTSD M0. Otl   BST?XATID   I
I               IPOSITIVt CASES I PREVALSOC3   I
- MINAS GERAI1 S             5869855 1         518326 1            8.8SI
- 10 GRAND2 DO SUL  I        2913025 1         257441 1            8.8SI
COIAS                      1786663 1         132204 1            7.421
- 531013P            1        459692 1          27441 1           6.031
-BAIA              I       4930925 I         268179 I            5.4S1
- PIAUI              I         956623 1         3870S I            4.0S1
- PARANA             I       4164943 1         166511 1            4.021
- PARAISBA           I        1405793 1         48863 1            3.5ZI
- P?RNANIUCO          I       2583119 1         72053 1            2.82S
- NATO 01080                  618910 1          17480 1            2.821
- ALAGOAS            I        1012240 1         25058 I            2.521
- NATO  BOS80 o0 SUL I        457896 1         11265 1            2.5SI
- ACRE               I         143081 1          3422 1            2.421
- AMAZONAS                     435379 1          8195 I            1.921
- RIO GRAND! DO NORTEI         883765 I         15713.1            1.821
- RIO DE JANEIRO     I        1519673 1         26657 I            1.8SI
- SANTA CATARINA     1        1937461 1         26936 1            1.421
- ClA&A              I        2855591 1         24018 1            0.821
- AU                 1       1166978 1           6532 1            0.621
- RONDONIA           I         171750 I           710 1            0.421
- RORAIM             1          32285 I           100 1            0.321
- ESPIaITO SANTO     I         832804 1          2629 1            0.321
- KASANRAO           I       3157419 I           3902 1            0.12,
- AMAPA              I          56357 1             0 1            0.021
BRAZIL: TOTAL      I      40352227 1        1702340 1            4.2ZI
ueesuus.eiuee.ue.u.eine.weusmee"=waeuuae.ene.ew.*"@@**Z **einae.u*u



- 30 -
AN=E 
BRAZIL
NORThEST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
CEAGAS' DIS2ASE
PROcAUM COVYEAGE ST AREA AND POPULATION (1986)
I       PROGRAM COVERAGE         I    UNDER SURVEILLANCE          I
REGIONAL     I
DIRECTORY    I   0  OP   I AR&A   IPOPULATIONI   NO. OF   I ARIA   IPOPULATIONI
I #UNIC2PIOS 1 (i)2)  1          1 MUNICIPtOS I (ZM2)  1          1
- ALAGOAS      I         95 1 27633 1 1752024.1           18 1  3506 1  315565 I
- SANIA        I        319 1 486261 1 10331151 1         39 1 41001 1  944509 1
- DISTRITO          I    1 1  5771 1 1742826               1 1    5814 1 1741434 1
PEDERAL                                                  I I  I  I  I  I
- GOIAl S               244 1 708222 1 4540635 1          77 I 381076 1 1137984 1
-ARANO       I        107 1 228281 1 4092575 1          23 1 92772 1  970772 1
- MATO GROSSO  1         64 1 371146 1 1723165 1          19 1 103969 1  394279 1
DO  SUL    I            II                  I            I        I          I
- MtAS GERAIS           498 1 509727 1 11726698 I         72 1 24401 1 3933775 1
- PARtIA       I        145 1 49802 1 2061446 1            4 1   336 1   26168 1
- PAANA        I        203 1 108245 1 4109808 1          99 1  6567 1  420132 1
- PEtNAMUCO   I         163 1 90249 1 4319541 1           34 1  9136 1 1012034 1
- RiO GRANDE   I        136 1 202614 1 4093942 1          20 1 39698 1  908929 1
D0  SUL                 I   I               I            I        I          I
- StRPE        I         75 1 15687 1 1291616 1            8 1  2057 I  379912 1
-  RZIL: TOTALI        2050 12803638 1 51785507 1        414 1 710334 1 12185483 1
'AM=~ 1
Table~ 3-
*                       Fl^~~~~~~RZIL
NORThEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
8CUIITOSOMIASIS
TRENDS 0 PEOPLE TESTED, POSITIVE CASES, AND CASES TREATED
IN SELECTED LOCALtTIES OF TEE NORTTIAST
(1977-1905)
YEZ A R
ft-ft ------- -
TRENDS      1   1977    1   1980    1   1983    1   1985    1
N0. OF PEOPLEI     418284 1   1684619 1   2091407 1   2630653 1
TESTED     I            I            I            I            I
I            I            I         .*I             I
O Of POSITIVEI       24.5S1        9.821        8.821        7.821
CASES      I            I            I            II
I            I            I            I            I
No. 0 CASES 1   .294130 1   1296703 1    811100 1    700900 1
TREATED    I                         II
SCAI                l          I C                       I
-Sonise: SUCAM/DIESCE



-31- T-bl  1
Table 4
NOtItUEAST E0SNIC 81I8tAS COMT3OL lIOJIC?
S¢2t81080tt^8IS
UINENIC AMIA, POPULATION Al 328 AID 3l13301 Ps2CI3
is 0os1T3A1T W3*1, (1967)
aa.amflaaa ....... a .fta---  as          ...                  ....aaa.aaaaaaaaaean
1201O0AL       I    Alt       I   30. 0o    I  OPOSILAUOt  IUSTISATIO  W0. 01
PIIICIOLS      I    (132) In LOCALITSI  I (XS1. '$S) I slhtDWO"  ILUCISI
aaflaaaflfl  Oafta-aa        ----aaa.aaa         a  ....f-------aa
- NASOAOUA       I       71651 1         4373 I    IG10010  I              1311 5
PIAUI          I        4)4  1         3)0 I      21554  I               249 1
- CtAR           5       24200 1         3603 1    2332557                 1141 1
- 3*0 GullsA              9265 1         1325 1      926060 1               45S 5
sO OSI    I               I              I              I                   I
- PARAIBA        5        9956 I         31505I    1054200 1                945 I
- PE3uAN3DCO    I        17000 I         5619 1    3269022 1               1745 I
- ALACOAJ        I       16704 1         0210 1    1819299 1               16U3 1
- 5102t13        I       11334 1         4426 1      947045 1              1327 1
- "AUZ           5      381230 1        0)377 1   10941508 1              16740 1
- NIM  Glu3s  I         211007 I        51100 I    9007232 1              15348 1
A 34         ?Al3 tOTALI  956S92 1     144016 1   32210462 1              4)127 1
ANNEX 1
Table 5
534221
P3Ot31346 ENDENIC 0t163Jt CONTlOL PROJICT
tIPOIStD CAStS 0  CUTANEOUS 4At VSCERAL LZISINAANIASI
tg 8OSTNAStAN$ SAlTES 1SETVE 1960 AND 1965
---- --------     .. .. .. ... .. . ..... . .... .........a...a.a..........aS a...
I   1a9 01    19   I                  9a21    1 9 31    1 9* 41    1 9  1 5    I
STATE           .........................S ea..  a        ..     ...e  .   ...............a            e..
1 ClT. I 118C0I CUt. I V116.I CUT. I VISC.I CUt. I vs16.l CoT. I V18C.I CIT. I V1SC.1
- nAuNIAO          I 42    1 0 3      1     0 1  259 1   41 1  170 1  19 1   515 I 309  I 115S  1  422 1
-t1t1        I    11   I it I   65 I   0  1   43 1  244 1   3  1312 1   S1   435 1   57 1  326 1
- ClAM         1991   75     6$3 1  17  1 10    1  447 1   41 1 4431 1 72 1  294 1  $39 1  475 I
soI0 SUDI I    01 3I              0      15 1    2 1   22 1    21   511    21   211    21   321
DOs0o30   1        1       1       1 I            1       1 I             I       I      I       I       I
- 145ARA       5   23 1   22 1     1 15    161   72 1   1   113 1   14 1  136 1   33 1  251 1   58 1
- 1ERNANSUCo  1   14 1   13 1   17 I    6 1   32 1   25 1   29 1   26 1  186   I  107 1  203 1  186 6
- ALA*  s      IIs   1   1     1   20 1    6 1   13 1   15 t   27 1   20 1   335    23 1    9 1   48 1
- S0ta1ls      I   15   1  10       4 1   32 1    3 1   35 I    S I   24 1          7 I   38 I   47 1  100  1
-stA           1 430 1    4 1   83 1   1  1193 1  248 1    9 1   40 1   *0 1  237 1 1341 1  74  1
- KNASI,AtISI 421 1    0  189 1    1 1125 1    41  13 l 1    0 1  251 1    9 1  350 1   22 1
1 1924 1  152 1 1710 1  336 1 1808 1 1099 1 1426 1 1095 1 1931 1 1720 1 4614 1 2425 1
*....................................................... b.... b.. ..............................
- TOtL         I               I               I               I              I               I
CUTANEOUS PLSI          2076 1          2048 1          290? 1         14068 1         3657 1          7239 1
V1$CI  4   )   I            II
*- ....,...- s.a.w.. * ---.aU5an5*,5OOOa5-SaSSU5SeUaaa



-32 -
ANNEX 1
Graph 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
REPORTED CASES OF LESIMANIASIS
Brazil: 1979-85
15                                            . ._._
-. 9Z9 1 98     1ss 19 1      1 9X 1983    1 984    7985
Year



33              -                 ANE 2
Page 1 of 6
SMU  USE OF PRSTICIDES
Row to Avoid Realth Risks and Protect the Enviroment
General Priucinles
All pesticides are a risk factor for humn beings and animals, but
there is a difference between the intrinsic toAicitv of the product and the
daner they represent. lighly toxic preparatioons are not used for vector
control due to the difficulty in reducing uman exposure to them.
O" way of esasuring the potential toxicity of a pesticide, especially
in relation to hUmU  and other ammals, is to estimate the quantity of
toxic component per kilogram of body weight needed, either oraly or dermaly,
to kill 502 of experimental animals, generally rats and occasionally
rabbits. This is called the average lethal dose or LD 50. Toxicity may vary
by way of ingestion or contamination, or by fonrmulation of the product
(liquid or solid). Based on these considerations R10 has established tables
for the toxicity and degree of danger of pesticides, under the qualification
of highly haxardous (BB), moderately hazardous (NH), slightly basardous
(SE), and unlikely bazardous (DU).
Based on sueb caracteristics of toxicity, health programs classify
pesticides by risk groups, from I to IV, recomeuding not to use the groups
I and II, and to use when possible groups III (slightly hazardous) and IV
(unlikely hazardous).
Studies on toxicology indicate that products belonging to the same
group, like the organophosphorus compounds (0P), have a different degree of
toxicity. For example, Pmrathign, which is used in agriculture, is the more
toxic with an LD 50 for rats of 3 mg/kg of body weight (oral dose); while
Temfibos (Abate R) has an LD 50 for rats of 2.600 mg/kg (oral dose) and
4.000 mg/kg by denmal contamination.
Anoterr OP is Malathion, used for public bealth in Brazil, having an LD
50 of 1.000 mg/kg of body weight (oral dose) in rats, and over 4.000 by
dermal contamsination. kowever, inadequate storage in tropical areas may
allow changes in the chemical composition of the product, transforming it
into lsomalatbhi.  hich is highly toxic. An accident of this kind occurred
in Pakistan in 1976, and 2,500 workers (sprayers) of the malaria control
project becam sick, of whicb five died.
Except for pirethroids and regulators of insect growth in the larval
pbase, few insecticides have been incorporated in the Brazil control
programs.
Besides toxicity, another feature to be conasdered on cbemicals is the
vay it is used, i.e. typ of formulation; concentration; method of
utilization; accidental food exposure; abosece of labels; inadequate
labeling either because of its content'or the lagusge used; contamination
of the barrel or boxes; inadequate storage; illiteracy; lack of proper
2training; or lack of information of the beneficiaries. Very frequently the



- 34 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
population is aware of the danger related to the ingestion of an insecticide
(orally) but not of the danger of its aboortion througb the skin,
particularly in bot climates.
Control of Eademic Diseasge
SUCAM is responsible for the control of Xalaria; Ch&a^s Disease,
Leisbauaiasis; Schistosomiasis; the control/eradication of J. aegvyti and A&
albouictus in order to avoid the urbanization of the yellow fever of the
forests and to control dengue; peat control; filariasis bancrofti control;
study of filariasis by O. zol1uluM; goiter control through the supply of
iodine to the salt packaging factories it associa.ion with INAN; monitoring
iodine content of the commercial product; and finally coordination of the
program to control soonoses in urban areas,, particularly rabies and kaslasr.
For the control of major endemic diseases, SUChM applies, among other
measures, organochloriue compounds, organophosphorus compounds, pyrethrum
compounds, moluscicides, raticides, and other cbemical products known in
Brazil as "dislodgers" to facilitate the inspection of walls in order to
identify triatominse.
The most common pesticides used by SUCUM are:
Produet               Igulatioa                   Protram
1. DDT            Powder/bumidifiable 752          Malaria-Kalazar-LTA*
2. DDT            Technical degree 98-1002         Malaria-Ralaar-LTO*
3. 8BC            Powder/hum.30Z iso. gamma        Ralazar-Pest-Chagas
4. liclosamida    Powder/bum. 702                  Schistosomiasis (snails)
5. Deltametrina   Imuls. conC. 2.52                Chagas Disease
6. Deltametrina   Powder/hum. 5,02                 Chagas Disease
7. Cypemetrina    Powder/bum. 40.02                Leisbmaniasis (Kalazar,
LTA)
8. Cyperuetrina   Pqwder/bum. 40.02                Test!pulicide/Pest
9. Jenitrotion    Powder/bum. 40.02                Leishmaniasis-Aedes
10.7enitrotion    ULV-GT 952                       Nalaria/Aedes/Culex
ll.Kalathion      hmulsionable concentrate         Yellow Fever/Dengue/
Kalazar
12.1alatbion      ULV-300-1000 ml/h                Malaria/Yellow Fever/
Dengue/Kalagar
13.Pirisa         10/80 aerosol                    Triatominae dislodger
14.Temefos        Granulated 12 (lppm)             Larvicide/Aedes/Yellow
(abate)                                           Fever/Dengue
* American Cutaneous Leisiabnisis
Sme Insecticides like NBC, XCI (Lindean) are seldom used now, and
otbers bave been used in a lesser ecale, like the Carbamates (Carbion,
fevin, Carvin, lorvin) as pulicides for pest control.



ANNEX 2
- 35 -                         Page 3 of 6
The raticide "1080" or sodium fluoracetate, was used for the pest
control program, but it bas been now discarded due to its high risk; and has
been replaced in the program by Brodifacoum (Klerat-R).
The use of iusecticides in a program has also favorable effects in
otbers. For instance, the increase in control activities for A-desd aesti
and Aedes albonigtus contribute to the control of Leishmaniasis vectors,
thus allowing a ebane in the work plans and goals of the latter.
Pesticides like chloropyrifos, malatbion, diauinon, fesitrotbion and
carbamates like carbaryl or propozur inhibit the ch1iaueltgzase thus it is
essential to control cholinesterase levels in the workers using pesticides.
It is also advisable that new vorkers hired for the application of
pesticides (organophouphorus, carbamates) be tested for Cholinesterase
before starting their work in public health, as frequently they are
originally from agricultural areas where intkrventions witb organophosphorus
pesticides like parathion may have affected their blood levels of
cbolinesterase. It is also recomeanded that SUCAN spraymen be provided with
sifficient water and soap to wash themselves at frequent intervals.
Facilities must be available to enable them to take a bath or shower at the
end of a days's work.
Main Identified Problems
1. Storaie Facilities
Imported druge arrive to preselected ports (Belem do Para in the North,
and Paranagua in the South) and are quickly distributed to the Regional
Directorates, and from there to the Districts. Storage facilities vary from
district to district, but in general they do have minimal conditions for
storage. Sucb conditions should include: (i) stand or wood platform to avoid
humidity and allow air circulation; (ii) free space to allow air circulation
over the boxes or barrels; and (iii) some security elements or padlocks to
avoid free access to the public.
Instructions erlst, but in general at a peripheral level of the system
they are not followed. It bas been observed in a district, during non-
working hours, that boxes witb pesticide have not been kept in the storage.
2. Handlig at Storage Level
Instructions exist and are adequate, if applied with discipkine.
henever boxes are damaged, but tLe pesticide is in good condition, it is
repacked. If there is contamiation or mixture witb the soil, the product is
collected and buried in areas where it could not barm the population or
sources of water.
3. Acquisition and Supply
Apparently the system of acquisition and supply of pesticides does not



AlNNEX 2
- 36 -                            Page 4 of 6
follow a standard pattern in relation to the packing and labeling of the
product. To illustrate this point:
DDT in powder bumidifiable at 75S arrived from Indonesia witb labels
written in Englist in the boxes and in the plastic bags containing
individual packages (670 gr) prepared in the factory.
DDT bought from Italy had Portuguese labels in the boxes, but there
were no individual packages prepared at factory level.
DDT from Jamaice had Inglish labels in the boxes, but the individual
packages in plastic bags had no labels at all.
The sixth edition of the WHO book on specifications for pesticides used
in public health, 1985. details the content of eacb label, depending on the
product or its formulation. It is recomeanded that such label be in the
language of the country where the product is going to be used.
4. Guidelines and Manuals
Personnel from the National Healtb Council of the Ministry of Healtb
have prepared a manual in Portuguese on Pesticides in Public Health. The
manual is very useful but needs to be reviewed and updated to include new
products that are being used and also indicate the risk factors identified
in some products after the manual bas been published.
There are no manuals suited to the use of medium level personnel or for
peripheral field workers. The sprayer's manual bas not been updated.
Corrections are usually made tbrough circulars for each program, and this is
not functional for an integral training of SUCAX workers.
The Regional Directorates and Tecbnical Divisions at beadquarters have
not bibliography on this subject. Spanisb being a language easily understood
by high level staff, it is recommended to use material already available in
such language prepared by the Pan American Center of Health and Human
Ecology, Pan American Health Organization, Vetepec, Mexico. This material
could easily be translated into Portugupes and adapted to SUCAM needs.
Some titles include: 'Risk prevention in the use of pesticides" (1983);
'Pesticides: risk prevention in its use - Training Manual", second edition
(1986); "Prevention, diagnosis Dnd treatIent of intozications by
pesticides", 1. Plestina (aareb, Yugoslavia), (1986); and "Classification of
pesticides according to its dangerousness", MD0 (1986).
5. Traina Courses
SUCAN baa sent eploycs to Pauw- to attend a course called
"Tecbniques on Pesticides Utilisation, and Equipuent Use and Maintenance".
organized by OPS, the University of Panama, and the Ministry of Healtb/hSEM.
The last course was in Novmber 1985. SUCAM has also organised local courses



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
- 37 -
on the same subject, especially in relation witb LECO equipment for the anti
Aades aeislti program. lowever, no courses bave been organized for
pesticides bandling, and prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
intoxication. In 1985, SUCAN and OPS have contacted UNICANI/Sao Paulo with
the purpose of preparing some courses on the subject, but it bas never been
implemented due to lack of funds. Botb the personnel of SUCAX beadquarters
and in the Regional Directorates agree on the need to give bigh priority to
this type of training.
Options for Solvina Id ntified Problems
1. Inter into an agreement witb an entity In order to review existing
usterial and to prepare new material in Portuguese, to be used at
Regional, District and field levels.
2. This entity would organize the following training activities:
(a) A three-day seminar, for the Division Chiefs of the three endemic
diseases included in the project; the Regional Directors of the
Nortbeast States and Nina9 Gerais; and the Field Activities Cbiefs in
each Regional Directorate. This first seminar could take place in
Brasilia, DP, or in Cempinas, SP, and would include subjects like the
safe use of pesticides, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
intoxications. The seminar would belp to motivate managers, and to
review the material prepared by the entity in order to introduce
modifications if needed.
(b) Training 40 General Inspectors, in two courses for 20 people each,
in places to be determined (i.e. Fortalesa or Salvador).
Activities under (a) and (b) would be undertaken during the first year
of the project, with the active participation of the contracted entity.
(c) Re-trainiig seminars for Inspector Generals would take place in the
third and fiftb years of the project, and would be given by SUCAN
personnel, for groups of about 20 people.
3.   During the process of procuremet of material, adopt the technical
specifications of VW on formulation and packing of pesticides, and on
labeling of boxes aDt individual packaging is the lapguage of the
country. Each label sbould include warnings concerning the toxicity of
bch product.
4.   Include in   CUAN's rules and rgultions, the obligatious at eacb level
to comply with the  onor   of bealtb risk prevntion for the workers and
environmental pollution.
S. Give one Loviboad kit to eacb district for cholinesterase control of
workers, aod of members of the comunity wbere activities are taking
place that would bave accidentally been exposed to pesticides used by
the progran.



- 38 -                               AME  2
Page 6 of 6
6.  Eacb district sbould bave an emergency kit for cases of intoxications
and clear directions on wbat to do and criteria for referral to higher
levels of care if needed.
7. At the Regional Directorate level, maintain contacts with other
entities dealing with bealth and enviroment; i.e.:
- State Foundations for Inviro_ment Engineering (133(L), of the Special
Secretariats of Enviroment;
- Enterprise of Techaical Assistance and Rural Extension (SK3A!Z) of
the Ministry of Agriculture;
- Universities, especially Departments of Preventive Medicine and
Occupational Healtb; and Toxicology;
- National Institute for Quality Control of ealtb (IJCQS), Osvaldo
Cruz Foundation, Rio de Janeiro;
- Pharmacy Schools;
- Foundations on Security and Labor Medicine (ia      ig.), depending
from the Ministry of Labor, and existing in each State. These
foundations give seminars for the "Internal Commissions for Prevention
of Accidents", knovw as CIPAs. The 20 hours CIPBeR courses fit the
nieeds of eacb State, and emphasize legislation, labor medicine, and
evaluation of risks. They are basically oriented to the industry, but
may be useful to some hierarchies of SUCAM.
8.   teep the commuity informed on the precautions in the use of
pesticides, through the normal channels of SCAKM for health education
and social participation.



ANNEX 2
- 39 -                           Table 1
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DSLEASS CONTROL PROJECT
PiOPOSED ACTIVITIES
SAFE USE OF PESTICIDES IN THE ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Years              Tota    Tota
ACTIVITIES                                ~~~CZ#    US$
ACTIVITIES                 1     2    3      4    5    x1 000    xI
_-
a. Contracting revision and
updating of training materials,
prepare manuals and participate
in activities for staff training      300                             300    16,760
- _--
'b. Seminar for higher level
staff (Directors, Chiefs Field
Operations and 3 Dlvision Directors  267                              267    14.916
c. Two courses of 20 participants
each, for General Inspectors
.  566 _                        568   31,732
d. Refresher courses for 40
General Inspectors                     _                       es   1.136   63,44
N-TOTAL 001 $                       1,135    _  5SS       _   568  2,271  126.71
Go 40 _it. Lowibond                  300                             300    16,760
Suppies                           71                              71    3,967
SUB-TOTAL OF MVhSfSIL                371                             371   30.727
TOTAL                                            568 _        5C5  2,642  147,591
W-   -                                                 -  - -
07Ak66



-40 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
II1Y MFIOILIZATION W
1oam gbJegive
The objective of this cponent is to pramot beavioral chnge in the
Nort tern population aimed at reducing the risk of contracting anyone of
the three diseases included in the project.
strateis
In order to attain a behavioral change, the component will develop two
basic strategies: a) popular education through schooling groups nd local
organizations; and b) health promotion through umss media systems.
1. Popular Fducati
The strategy of popular education consists in the develoipent of
w;orkshops and non-forual information and motivation activities for school
age children and adults, on means of preventing the three diseases. To that
-Ai SUCAN will produce materials like handbills for oollective use,
ansn p rencies for overhead projectors, and will have paper, paints, color
pencils etc., for the expression and creation of students. Students would
then have the role of motivators of their parents, who in turn would propose
individual and collective alternative solutions. The work to be developed
with students would aim at the gradual inclusion of prevertion activities
into the curricula, allowing an active participation of teachers and
promoting institution building of educational work.
2. Health= PEtmton tha  Mass Meia
Siimltaneously to the populwr education activities, and aiming at a
100 coverage of the Northes3t population, a mss media campaign based on
social marketing criteria would be designed and implaunted.
According to the utilization pattern of ass media in Brazil, radio and
TV would be priiarily ued, sqpptd kw calnudar ad other printed
materials. Ther will be four messagesr by cp4sn ammiallI in all the mass
media, and an adJustuut in the anuwl production to take into account the
results of the campaign. A survey would take place in order to make a choice
of the breodoasting stations and optimal hour. Three VTR Vrogram  a year of
five minutes duration on the suJect of the three disses  would be
prepared, to be used by the *6bile teems.
It is already knomn that a high p entage of the cominity is familiar
with ideal patterns of behavior that would alow them to avoid the diseass;
but it is also clear that those behavioral patterns, do not belong to the
cultural characteristics of the popultion, and thus are not adopted by the
comunity. It is necessary to propose smething new and practical through
education and healtb promotion, or there is a risk of promoting bhavioral
pattes that are already kow  but not adopted b the comity. Th



ANNEX 3
-41 -                            Page 2- of- 3
proposed swvey would try to find out why the cummity has not adopted
those beavioral patterns, and to establish with the commnity alternative
solutions that the groups would acoept.
To that nd the suwvey would design a poll, interviews and workshops
for the oinmity to discws erAemic dise_se  and way to avoid them. The
idea is that both the criticisms and the proposals be gathered and used as a
starting point for prmtion and  ducation strategies.
Sm pilot localities would be selected in the project areas, were
detailed survey and training work would be performed, in order to establish
a starting point for a more c sr-behsive work.
Taking into account the type of survey proposed, the sample would not
be probabilistic becusme it is necessary to control special cultural and
epidemiological variables. The selection of the sample as well as the choice
of the instrumnts to be used and the training needed, would be developed by
the coordinators at central and regional levels; the latter would be
responsible for the selection and training of the survey interviewers in
each Directoarte.
teInmut
To implament this component, the necessary inputs have been included in
four categories:
1. The project would finance salaries and per diems for 21 middle level
teochnicians that would back up the work of sanitary extensionists in the 10
regional directorates, and 22 drivers of mobile units who would al8o act as
auxiliaries for education activities. Per diems would be available for said
personnel and for 92 technicians alread  working in the project areas and
for regional ooordimtors.
2.  supplies for field offices and field work would include materials for
activities to be undertaken with students and cainity organizations.
3. Audiovisual and printed reproduction equipaxt for the ten regional
directorates and headquart rs; and 22 vehicles carrying audiovisual
eguipt to  w t the work of the sanitary extensionists. They would be
distribud according to the size of the directorates.
4.  Csotractual ervices to be entered into for the production of education
sterial, printed amterial, broadcasting and audiovisual materials,
acoording to SUCAM's ainistrative nacrs and the World Bank Guidelines. In
all cas", the responsible for the promotion strategy would orapvise the
worbs and accept them for reproductict and broadcasting. Prootional
aterial would be contracted through local ocopetitive bidding. The
contracted agency would produce and pretest iaterial according to terms of
reference prepared by SLCWAN staff. Consultant services will include four Dmn
months per year, of an IEC specialist, during five years. Perdiems for
supervision, and sminars for evaluation and adjustments of the project
would als be financed.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
tMgaive Activ,t,d
WbO  analyzing the rofls iiw the c@mmity 1_ not yet adopted the
prodoed bvior  t It  saoetim  fwd that other  roblem apar to be
awe  myount for the eople, and that they do not consider preventive
actios a priority. Por ths reson fidig will be povided to the regionl
directso, In an inzp.ital basin, to finrwe ¢mmity activities of a
prodtive te or comditiond to cdinity prticiation in the solution of
a sanitay prlble related to the bmvuticn of admic disess
lteinsmg Evaluation
Monitoring of this ctonmt would be ensred throg  incewsd
supervision activities frcm the cutral leel to the regioal directorates,
and fram the latter to the districts. Behavior is not subtantially
modified in a short tem. For this reon  an evaluation has been incled
only to detemine the copletion ad timeliness of activities of this
component, at the wd of the secoid yea of the projet. By the end of the
project, a survey similar to the a- pefonred at the beginming would try to
detemine the behvioral modificatios acoomplished by the project.



rAnA A U8tzA¢;Ao CNt srAAl - wFo$*AA;O,ECACAO E t¢mACA(IECI
~~ -. .. ttloPO   ^"0 I     P"o 2           ^"0 s           ^"0AN   3  AN   4  A11160      - AN**
*~~~~~~~~~~~~t             im      _118  -r    t- .Xet. ....  1 fZI  a   rs* 0nlll l     T  m  AMGA1411, rnwm_..
mrrr ^ H iE X + ~~10- n++                                                                                 **n fLIii
Jl_~~~~~~A             aI_*     I   I              i
_ 0^ s s  s E _ X T E | TrI   I I  A   I tI   1
t  -Illkilill .  X~~~~~~~I-  -1 I i tFIM    i           lTllllll
_ _1 s r  X rs rl  T _ XT  l l l I  fi | X  r I | s fi X z E  E l | Iz z z z ii i i s 
g  _S      II  1 tI                     e:t  X+  TlI 4  Tr                             i- 11f 1 F  II IlLf
oo        _IPllUJb.1+  .                                                 lzl l+Iilil  qii
*  .   § s E | Z s 1 X r   mr Tr , l I   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I   TTIfI           
a -awJ - _ IIUIee lllL  11|11+ftllirllar 
Fb__ t &  fM Ili9  Mi§|§TII1dFIL   
ttaml. a       I I Io I r          I                                                           T    l II               IL                            -  I I 
tswtxt it               IlSllt-      !ll5e   IIl-tlIillr l                                               I!!r



, ~~CRONOGfUAMA DE ATIMIADES
PARA A MoB1zA<Ao C0MUNltAR1A -  FoRmAcAo. EDucA4;:Ao E comuIcAIAo (IEC)
ATIVICADES    TEMPO              ANO  I               ANO  2               ANO  3              ANO  4               ANO  5               AN06
BtVtOllDES   __ _   mtt4|5ls t sIs  2 I A114tstet"to 9to-t 11 2134 MIIM02  I 2135e  e!   e@ S16f tili X4111 11215 11Sl^1TIOleX1lU  1|tst154tlft
TEX1EA J1"NAS    E                                                          -                                      II1                           ||I
~~~~~~111!§|IIwa  l_Km DE MOELOS DE AlrIVI  I1- r IIL    1Lt
f~~~~~~~~~~~ CI IAIW 1                 1                                       LI I I I I i _ I  I I   t i I   I      1      I  i    I I I at1
1111's.0,                   11!. -Mi.r-arllee 1111lllllll    -111t 
_9)PVMf.   |E    ||t    IE A |  X   §   |.    L                  XT    I IIIff{|u        
FM  as           iU-I 111          1                                               t IT      I                                          Ir     l4Et&1ttlll11nli1§ L |Efi'        1i1 
_^_ _ Rt5ULt OOS W X X v H ~If                            IfI   !             I  I      1 I1I.III I 
- W M  I     P E A )ISCA .                                                             I     I    I                      A -             1111;111LILLL 
O8ENEY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It   SI                                             I  I          I I1llI111111IIIIL   1L  IIIIL        1         
_mow cs otesuLmon0                                                                                                                       tS                 "



-     rxm, w sr _wilh
I            I             -                   M                   OM AD Ni                           UCm
I            I              Yesr                      I                ew                I             Year               I
1            1    1      2      3     4      5  NM1   1          2   3   4    SiuM           1   2   3    4   5iL  I
IWareimo     1 368.5  168.5  166.5  166.5  118.0  792.0 1 30.0  2D.0 14.0 14.0  9.8   77.8 1 0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6    30 1
Iii.,i       1  22.0   2.0  22.0  22.0  15.0  103.01 1.5   1.5  1.0  1.0  0.7    5.71 0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1    0.5 I
ICeare       I 235.0  235.0  235.0  235.0  165.0  1105.0 1 23.5   2.5 16.5 16.5 11.5   91.31 0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5    2.5 
IDG.*di  e  I  93.0   3.0   3.0   9.0  65.0  437.0 1 27.5  27.5 19.0 19.0 13.0  106.0 1 0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2    1.0 1
I            I                                        1                                  I                                I   -
uraih          105.5  105.5  105.5  105.5  74.0  496.0 1 51.0  51.0 35.0 35.0 25.0  197.0    0A4  0.4  0.4  04  0.4    2.0 I
6ftw*=.o     I 330.0  330.0  330.0  330.0  231.0  151.0 1330.0  330.0 231.0231.0 160.0  32.0 1 0.8  0.  08  0.8  0.8    4.0 1
0A1a~ms     I 182.0  1820  182.0  182.0  128.0  856.0 1140.5  140.5 96.0 98.0  L0.  55.0 I 0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9    4.5 I
lpRI'e       1  95.0  95.0  95.0   9.0  67.0  447.0 1 99.0  99.0 69.0 69.0 48.0  31.0 1 0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6    3.0 1
13.bd        1 662.0 116.0 1114.0 1114.0  UD.0  4932.0 1565.0 1010.0 803.5 523.5 421.0  335.0 1 0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9  0.9    4.5 I
IWO" Cas    I 483.0  933.5  923.5  923.5  736.5  4000.0 1355.0  605.0 567.5 437.5 32.0  2387.01 0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7    3.5 1
I _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , .                    I                 I _    ______ _
YU!



AMNE 4
_ 46 -                                  Table 2
MRAZIL
Nortlmt  ndemic Dis .e Control Project
TAMIMS BY ATIVITi  AND BY YEAR: TMISH NIMIS
Rua        reeniai --  l-3     to
ealth Education:
flme Visits *                    4.1300  4.130.00  4.130     4.130    4.130.000 20.0000
* School lectures                   I  2M      2.320    M20    23320    23320   141.00
2.  DOR Scr       :
Number to be tested               .49.401  149.402   .3.4   t.42  1.492  7.467460
* Numbr blood samples              1.4&4      A 2  1.402.492  1.43402  14. 492  7.467410
* Ski  snips                        1id       61610    59.740    2167    14*3    337.024
3.  Phlebotomlnae Screni:
'  lmber of home
vsttS                              14.0    140    14.0    140    14.2            72.6
4. tat Actmtides:
Number human exudates
to be examned                          -        -        . 
Number canine  xudates
to be  me t1.ed                  1.44   1.U4M2  1.493492  1.4ft4W  1.493.492  7.46, 46
(Expected positives)             (lam    (161    (19.740    mm*0   ( )  (337.024)
Smears to be examined               143        .10    W740    2O.70   14.935   33 7024
(Expected positives)     (~o')   (MU       (3WS)  (0.1715)   (0*57)  (222.04)
* Phlebotomlae to be                 20         00    32.ot    220       22.0     ¶10000
csuif led
 Dog5 to be lpuinatd              .73    179.0    19430    .740        .M7   674.
*m.se  to b  spayed               $*Ad4  ON"         134   33.67    GLS   2411.7M
Zola-Agar cases treated             3.0       30       240      *.m       710    ¶2.70
* LTA case  tzieted                   53       6A13    5.24?    4.01     2015    24.466
* Nmber of Glucantim   mps.    m00    63    4220   351X0   217.500  2.235.960
*  Includes Infomatioa on risk factors sod control of LeuM4nass, huma
screening and reerral.



- 47 -
BRAZIL NORTEWT ENDEM4C DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT          ARE 4
Table 3
5CISTOSONIASIS
TIH LE BY MGMA PASE AND BY YEAR
abaft   Pm             rom -   AM Am   **
_ft_ _
Mom      .~~~~~~..... .mt
fmm
Pouf
ffim- -   - --
~~~ -    -  m-rn mi_
NA.m 
- ouwm        wfo ANUMMm - 
cowe                   m     m- iWn___-
*                   suAWM    AWA%mmirnmmii
-aa              -- dMW. mmm_
bm~~~OLm         %m mini man ammumm
to  - - - e-
~~~--.                     .ni .
MW ~ -VA   m   m    in-w
A vm - .e -
AUbm Wrn m      m  ai 
cow*   SO                   -  m-aimmum
I   pa-umto O -  -  -m
~~-                 .e--em.m
~~iEm-    - 
Thss  ff9*f.aa.v   00  *ak  o    utlM



- 48 -
Dawn                                  ANNU 4
IOR1 T AT UDDl(C DISEAS  CONTROL          T             Table 4
TIMTABLE OF ACT!vmES
Federal                                         Year 1    Y"r 2    Year 3    Yer 4          Year 5
hits            WSUCAR Districts                           b- semer-
lot  2nd A q  2,d  ljt 2nd  _.atud lot 2yA
Pdar                        a  B        B     B               to  *........
chanaedza                   a     a    a      a B        B           o..o...o...
Cady1                       a     O    B      B    B    *    ....... **.
~~4zs1Xas            *     B    B      B    8    *    ......*.....
PSatb C                           a    a      a    a    *    ...  ...  ...  ...
PXWI~~~~~                                ~~ cl  B   B  a  a    a... . *    ...  ........
RIO Gi00  m                 a B         a     a    aBd    p   a     . *  *** .t.oo.......
Sda1                        a     a    a      a    a B         *** *** too     *..
tabia°                      a     a    a   B       a           too   * .......
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ t                                        _                _ a  a    a _ _   **** 
. sxoudtUpb                                 a   B.   a        a    a   .. .. *    ..* .*.......
ca±oB                       a     a    a      a    a    *    ...  .. ..    ...
PAdak              I                   Ama     a      a    a      a    a    *     ...  ...  .....
e~naa                       a     a    a      a    a    *    ..**¢      .*.  .-.
Vit&.i dontomti             a     a    a           B           *  ..  ...  .*.
dag.io   .d                    a    a      a    a   *    ...  ...  ...  *..
fP Dpa                      a   a  a   a  a - .                     *** **d *d  * ...
i  dos Palm                       a    a      a    a    *    ...  ...  ... 
bt^i                        a     a    a      a    a   ... *  ...... ;~
A.Sra.d         S                 a    a      a    B    *    ...........
a Jva                             a    a      a    a    *       ... .. .*.  .
;ie aaq                     a     a    a      aw    a    *    ... ... .....
Itabaaa                           a    a      a    a    *    .*...  ...        ...
Ci5                         a     a    a      a    a        *............
CA N               J        a      a    a     a    a
,7nfi  °                           a    a      a1    a   *    ...  ...  ...  ...
~~1O~i.                a     a    a                        ..  ** ..  99
Cooenctis:  a -  Prepratory Phase (mapit, traffng, iWnuts distributio, etc.)
b -  AttacL Pbase (Ustowlogcal suvy, do  testig/oll-Iatima,
insectic"de spraying
*_ -  luatiSlepostinn
P- oet eaalatio  activities:  Focalnsecticide Sprayin&
dog tt         l     t   - Swellmice



- 49 -
suzu                                  ;AMI 4
ois? uac QIDSi C=mO ICOI                                                                 Table 5
TUAZt SiMY I  tI, IUJCT CWOUT MD ITEU 0 IXPUDtTUR3
(In  s DOSlWs)
........................ ..... .       ...............................  , ,,,,,,,,,,,,.,.,....................................................................... 
It      oll        I   No. *U    I sulattOg  I  stssit £stQUtalgts    I toslSCtOt  t3at1t13 s213     I   10*2       I
13*3  1    C@3g9031336   I  I.................    I.................  I 
I                  lP*ItIZCtIV*3b    (3*16)  I  1ta Otntt  I   164i111    I pgg stu4     I   21A*3    I   COSTS    I
..................................... .......... ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ 
13*v 1 1- C3*0*31 0t33311l                            1             I      2       la                         I              I
I    Uts6*Wt ....  I          13 I        33 1      64,443 I      62.632 I        6X33  3         663 I      63.336 1
I    310db Le tve  I          201          61       62 ,201 I     62.966 I              I             I      56.169 I
1- I tt$gF"t^*t  I             o              I I                                       I             I | 
I. 6C1IONZ*621*tI             It 1                                        It   t,$    t101 l,*  I  lt* I            I t,4 
N isbe  Level O                30        160 I    613,253 I         6534 I              I             I    615319 I
I   i Addle &*wet I        51 I        333 I   6330@,po 1       $63033 I      $3.633 I        6636 I   0)31.333 1
I              Level I           I           I              I             I             I             I              I
I-LfSRIS$66                    II                        I            I          " I         I SSl1      $S.4 
I    WAddleLevel I       11            6        36333          6.3            493II 66.6 
I                  I              I           I             I             I             I             I 
I    Ni6e  Level              As I        36 I    $16,1st I    662,026 1           $691 1        6393 I    $$*,90 I
-**331  101*3.   I         2663 I       9)6 I   $966,611 I    625,493 I    $13,206 1          $6,546 I 61,012,096 I
....... ........                                                                                 ............. ............. 
1t**3 1- Cll&C0*'Ot3U6     I              I           I             I                                                        g 
B ie  Le1vel 0           12 1         4 0                    $I,1.3 0          $0 62,9     6            $6,?32  I
I- ICsSsOs e                     I            I             I             I             I             I              I
middl*e S.9.t 1             633 I        is I   62M,s6 I                 I     6,*4 2           *S 652    $2723,93  1
I  I           I           I             I             I      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I
I-couuuutly  I    ~   30I             I     St*2I          $251I            WOI          $31I        $     4I
I* eoncabe  Level       20       1         6 I   82,662 I         $2,"3 I          6230  I       6.23 I      63.614 I
I                  Ise    t      I         *                I             It**          I             It$1           I s     s?l *,1
1- ^t tOt  *4t  . .. ..,. ....           .  ...............        . O   ..,..............        . .  ...
TM  631-C3a6sI6t"S                        I           I             I             I             I             I              I
I  isbee Lievel I          Is I         4I       St,053 1      62.493 I         S66 I         663 I      62,.2  I
I    2iddl   evetl       2I                6 I      620l I          ,"S I         $66, I0 I
'    Ulebee Level             201          6 I      $2*,2S  1    $2,6*3 I        6220 I         $6323       $$,6    I
I         "to      I              I           I             I             I             I             I              I
Agog"0at                      S t I       is I      65.90  I      $6.93 I       62,6   I         $614 1    626,349 1
S IU ("*     g I s8 it"62)I               I S                       5             ,             I              t             5
&gm: rev"                      I       to I      $$,"SI  I       $II                 I                   $        I
I. *133*3 101*2.   I          22 I        16 I      13696 I       6II,00? I        64,16  I      6,,,,,, 14   69,539 1
*- p  ---   * -------.* ------.*------  . -----....... - -...                     .-
111I(6*tt  t, *3 I                    I           I             I|            I             I*$            I             Il*$| $*^| $sz 
I                           3I  3 I           I                                         I             1,401 1 *t,lY 2 I
6  *  3 a      0t   O t a  I       3666 5      1001 I 1$ 53.99  1    624"6  I    616,624 5    693,212 5 61.42,401 I
*~~~~~~~ *                            -     -                   I       .          _-.I                    I     |       I--  -**-_-*--



- 50 -
-50-                                        ANNEX 
AE MDmUC D1MOCl.  I                                      Table 6
1m        OF civ  vs
I   1   1987  I         1988             1        198           I
TASK$               l                                                    I __--_I
33  14    1         2     3      4  1 1  1 2  1 3 1 4 1
* ~  ~       ~ ~ I II --I- I_I-I -I-I -I_I_I-, I
1. Revispre1mi    drad              IMIn a          I           I            I            I         I
2. 1DI4 dad_s                       I               I
a. District Office (?ztotype)      PI   mm        I           I            I           I         I
b.  iomD Ditote                   MI    =I I                               I                     I
3. Se1acti/Catctiofd Cm        t   I   I            I           I            I
4. 11v of P     mtp  and Fl D       RlaI -I                     I            I
5. Site kAsi _ol eallatibn           a  ImrIaI.............I.......... A  I
6. W;Xt_~~~I                               I     D     tI           I            I   
6.  aiftidDoamts aaugjIZ                                    u                              
7. BidlBabstim                      IDRI            I      mm  I             I            I         I
8. World Ec_App1a1                  11 1                                        I
9. Cact/statCM1 l a                 IaI             1           1=           1
10. &ipe,is    of Civil Waft        I                                        - - --                  1
U1. 26 Civil Mklu Ctut i              la                             ----------------
wrilhas~~~~~ In     I                                   I_                        
13  u      .te,                      1Xi1 bid                    1z =I
3Ai.h                     , I*ism   I             If  I        1 I.inin1.
I  1                                                 I 
S/    Dmtim to WM    by Prfeitm
b/   Ihistratin In OM
?esp - Iepmble
* D - Iqimin Dizinctowte
=F - Priva kcbitets
M   VbrldPo
11 - city o.ntnm
ANNEX 4
Table 7
=M =MC DU= OM=m
&Ias  euird by Each a=o  Pr  I
TYPE
Vu. Pic-p  Jep  N*m  lie
QbS! aOwf.l                        13    -      1   -      -
Scdlttomissis Oto1                 -    139    7   320  1,542
lalaIiaes ieCo.l                   -    137   23    50    -
13   276   31   370   1542



notg,st mwgmm        anu US;aV%      r'stw    uV* 90 6wt owl; mg as mg L, era
rtca     % os   a     n's   i anisa;  -                                          O-N-   rnarn   -    iS 
-  -  -   -      -          -    -   -  -  -    -   .  -  -m -    -           -        -        w'Om rVW
VOK   uWsa   Kv            $W               Ita     a            GI    a  is             a        a          atm M
rait   a   an 6   a u       -w       osn'u                              at      0-   aW           a          sm, r  rn
wis  twoS  aft'   -    Awm                   U -                 at GI       -    ist  M4  dm      i        ofu        m
:1Us'a  SWS                       ;6451~iS    05--U    n 5 5                   S    W'9 WAiaCM'       IdIW 9U';VW
yin';  us'. ss'   us    us'.  SS~S    fP S i            s    O s      r'   -W -AIW                   WM           -(3a
*  -  -  -      -                                                     -      -        -            wp~t ..  -    L.rSWa  u
-  -  -  -      -         -~~~ ~~~                                               ~ a    -  -  -  u,   oug,      *
-  -  *  -      -         -~~~ ~ ~~ ~ -    -                                 -        - ow  o   9qn raaY'
-  -  -  -      -         - ~~~~w        -      atel-    ar   VI                      -       q wr, *    in
-  -  -  -      -         - ~~~do -             O    aa         -    aw      -                   i    IMret 
PMU   6w9  i'S  -e          -                    f £                     -S  Om.       Ow us;waaAs "MM MPWt OM          t   S
rua  Sa';us';  in  -                 S:   :                  - @9           eVauIWVii                  w         ism
96,af aftr'  a                        afts    M--ll--rns-                                         - 
rag   min   $Ws'; w         -         i'     on              -   rn    -t                                     MOM-eV  syua~~ AD hhc'
-      -w    an    -       -          --PP                                            a                    PPa      of
rm-    -o  $W       is     -f                         du Onota              - of               a -                 1w 
rrnVaw                     at         WA a  rn'   u          a  r's; 5-  -  at-an                                    rut's     001
rat   an5'   US'S  an    K'S                a       aU       - K S-at-    is   aKI Wwa4t                   GP'aW
stua    Air$  us';   -      -s        uW    a   Sg                a   - rnj       0-     £- Was/Wti           TJNI'M  9 V
*WC'  ofi  ofa   r          i'        -- -at            S         .n i  .  .  .    .5' iYI.       aWU"'  rnat   u
Gin  aum'gift    0         aftE             ussum In               rn as          *S   -          -                  v    '- 03m
rsmc   as';  mYW;  P       wn'S             a U     a-       -   Of-rn   -    is    r    Wua/w' Iu                la I       -m
vcla    as'   os's          gy's            a u-u- -  .   0n-rn   0- is                   1  WW"48Ms'u       ="mm   mg
VOK   awls   m5';u         Swif             a u     a u      -   at -is           0is   ao'g/iw               .iUl'  S
nlt    s"   rnl   at    -             -    rn   - -  -    is  at aet-     -i Ow    -wrd                      WAqsrrIa       U
m'f   W        t 's 's      aft       -    so  -  a           w e-uLa       -     w6v  6-         -           -                 M
s*us   anY'  KYWs          KY         -    Ut   -  a  -    -   05  -0rn-    is9 6v wii WtsM'w                     1 rts
risc   as';    It  in    iSW$      -    a   - St -    -   0a - rn-                  volts'  sa/ua'unss    miAris I'm
rs     "i s*s   vij        Gift             SI  -  U-    a    a  - s              s    M'  saasiucP'  ~I    m
rts   LuW;  155'   in    %Vs               a     - a  -    -    s- s -    is    us't waaw wII s                ampT   roi   a
-    is    is  -  -    -   is    --~~~~       ~ -  at   -    -    Om-  Ow   W I-witaw 
ram    twituVnW s          $WC        -     us-a             urn-           -    oV      -       -                wa      - 
tmis   au's  us'cm         aft             u           m    m aa -               la, -  - r  - p      s is;uoaaS'  '09V 
Vs"   ass'  us; ia         w'                              -        -   5 .   0-       owls'  Wioiaa'ita     ftl     @eVo
S'l    atwsawL;l           LV;              u-- - r-r-'W  -i  aW  a9/                                     -ma             r p 
655t    as  Sw?pn l                                                               -    ca's  MOI'st 
rae    writ uisv a   a    A"         3W                      -l   ---   ;uaj  -                                     VUsftio uP1~i4m 
IV     ass   tags-                  jws             -        - -- a                     a    LD/'a9          i~~5s
-  -  -  -  -                                                 -     4        -         .wau~~~~mo nw'*I  p
nag   aim;US'S  in  v         u-u            -      n-            is P';          a'o                  r    i
-  --- 4um                               SVSIlOD M                      *       6m4g
-  -  -    -         --~S.wi  -  -    -  is -    -  - is      - - - tv                      "    O   IE  



-52-
ANNEX 4
Table 9
BRAZIL
Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project
CQrtional Performanie xndicators
Dispersed     Clustered
Indicator                     Population   Population
:1. Average number of houses sprayed/trip,
2. Daily average of houses sprayed/guard
53. Daily average of stool tests processed/
lab. technician
54. Daily average of treatments administered/,
5. Average number of dogs tested/trip
.6. Daily average of household visits/guard                a              I
7. Monthly average of dogs eliminated/       '             a              a
I   No. tested positive
i8.  Average cost per case diagnosed *       j             a              a
19. Average cost per case treated *          j             |              j
* These indicators will be obtained through a special study financed as
part of the operational research component. SUCAM and the Bank wi ll agree
on reasonable improvement and monitoring of performance indicators.



-53 -                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
AIDS COMPONENT
Main Enidemiolosical Features
Although the largest number of reported AIDS cases is still in the
United States, Brazil is one of the many other countries in which the
disease has developed into a serious public health problem. First
identified in the country in 1982, AIDS has increased rapidly in subsequent
years, with total reported incidence as of end-1986 more than doubling to
1981 cases by July 1987. Particularly high rates have been noted in the
cities of Sco Paulo (26.7 reported cases per million population) and Rio de
Janeiro (15 cases per' million).  Although. incidence of AIDS is higher in
several other countries, Brazil's reported caseload is now the second
largest in the world in aggregate terms. Moreover, after accounting for
undiagnosed and unreported cases, actual incidence of AIDS in Brazil is
probably higher than the official estimates.
As in the United States and Europe, AIDS in Brazil occurs
primarily among homosexual and bisexual men, intravenous drug users,
hemophiliacs and children born to infected women, with a rising incidence
of heterosexual transmission. 82.5X of patients are in the 20-49 age
group, the years of peak economic productivity. Infection occurs via the
introduction of the HIV virus into the bloodstream, with the subsequent
formation of antibodies. Although not all those who test positive for the
presence of antibodies go on to develop AIDS symptoms, current technologies
can at best postpone death after actual onset of the disease. While no
systematic efforts have been made to estimate the number of AIDS carriers
in the Brazilian population as a whole, preliminary tests of blood donors
indicate a national sero-prevalence rate of 0.3X, with incidence as high as
1.0 in large city jails. Hospital care costs of a patient with AIDS may
range between US$40 and US$80 thousand. As carriers frequently do not
exhibit symptoms of the disease, the possibility of a rapid spread of AIDS
throughout the population convinced Brazilian health authorities of the
need to mount a formal public healtb campaign in August 1985.
Component Obiectives
a.) General
- To prevent further transmsissiou of the HIV virus
- To reduce the incidence of morbidity and mortality
associated with the RIV virus
b.) Specific
- To implement and supplement an effective epidemiological
surveillance system



AMNE 5
Page 2 of 2
- To promote educational activites addressed to the general
population as well as to higb-risk groups, the media and
health professionals
- To develop a training for health professionals, in the areas of
management, diagnostic techniques and epidemiology of AIDS
- To encourage the carrying out of epidemiological and
operational research
- To implement Macro-Regional Reference Centers (Centros de
Referjncia Macro-Regionais) in support of the AIDS Program
Main Comgonent Features
In 1988 and 1989, the AIDS component of the Northeast Endemic
Disease Control Project will emphasize the following activities:
a.) Development of human resources, by adoption of a strategy designed
to make health staff skills more responsive to AIDS-related needs
at the local, regional and hospital level. Qualititative and
quantitative shortcomings of current staff have been apparent
since preliminary AIDS conferences in 1986.
b.) Realth promotion, by means of an intensive multi-media campaign
targetted at high-risk groups as well as the population at large.
Without resorting to alarmist appeals, the initial 24-month media
campaign views the high-frequency disseminiation of preventive
health information as the most effective means of changing
people's patterns of behavior, and thus halting the spread of the
virus. All available channels of commmnication are to be used
throughout the country, including television, radio, newspapers,
magazines, posters, bumper stickers and fliers.
c.) Technical assistance. To develop an effective five-year program,
two high-level consultants will be necessary. In principle, these
advisers should be available for fifteen days per year over the
two year period, with actual needs to be determined by the Program
Coordinating Unit.
d.) Research.  As the incomplete understanding of the actual
prevalence of AIDS in Brazil has until now hindered preparation of
an effective strategy, targetted epidemiological research specific
to the country is of utmost importance.
e.) Laboratory support to facilitate control activities, particularly
as regards quality control of donated blood. Of the estimated
300,000 episodes of blood donation occurring monthly in Brazil,
only lOZ are currently tested for transmissible disease such as
AIDS, syphilis, malaria, hepatitis and Chaga3's disease.



- 55 -                                    -,
gm                                        Table 1
so= am=a=  a
m  mic -                                                M
~~I   ~1=     1  1I        I            I            I    l l I                 I
I3mur   2  1*A1.   I              I  13.1c        I*m3w c      I%1bc    I  I
I   1       _      S            1                   I            1 S 1 I1a    I
I1mul              1   6   60.01   7    53 .1 3      3.91  76    67.91  27   0.21  86   42.61
Its_,a1            1   2   20.0 1  33   28 1 319   19.11  17    15.21  12   214 1 383   19.31
hlatruwim  DM U I   -    -  I   1    0.81  39    2.31   6           SA I   1    1.81  47    2.41
I~            I            t            Il I                       I                         I
Ille11c            I   1   10.01  6    4.51  S1    3.11   1    0.91  8   14.31  67    3.41
!1_1               1   -   -  I  S       3.81  19    1.11   -         - I  I    1.8 1  25    1.3 1
I                  I            I            I            I             I            I            I
Ilaaoo Trani-m     I                7    5.3 1  S2   3.11   5    4.5 1   1    1.81  65    3.3 1
I             I            I            I            I             I            I            I
o                  I   -    -I   -    - 1   5    0.3 1   2          1.8 1   2    3.6 1  9    0.5 1
I                  I            I            I            I             I            I            I
bbtam              I   1   10.0 1   8    6.01  87    5.2 1   2      1.8 1  4    7.11 102    5.11
I                  I            I            I            I             I            I            I
Il                 I   -    -  I   2    1.5  432   25.9 1   3       2. 1   -    -  1 437   22.11
I                  I  10  100.0 1 133  100.0 1 1670  100.0 1 112   10.0 1  56  100.0 I 19   100.0 I
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     I  _ _ _ _ _ _ __I _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I  _ _ _ _ _ _ __I  I__ _ _ _ _ _  
Iomme: Po m    lciml e Cd roe a   de 5  . A ie.
seivico da slidw cia * Itatstica



----- --  -S-X-ff-r-- --                      ---
[F ~~ -i -|       -   -  -           - - - - - - - 5l -1 -i  
I                                   I
!i~fLiFF 



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
3PAZl                                           fTable 3
UrAI? UIUIC DS   in§a
- -
Om 806    3 c         A   MR 1987
O198              199 I
I-                                       1               I                  I                  I
1.     1M    Th=bh                    I   ,             I    1,2S3,53* 4        2,506,800
12.  Mm Vdiia lith Ptb im                  1,024,639    i    1,024,639      I    2,049,278 |
13.  Teebdcal asistace             |          30,000    I       30,000      I       60,000     I
14.  lb3nb                             I     140,000    I            -             140,000     1
e                                      I                 I                  I                  I
15.  Blood Teat lqlpremt ad Eeguts t   2,610,577 s                               2,610,577
16.  Office Iquipmt (Ctmal and bhro  I        98,620    1            -      I       98,62D     I
Iqimo OffkcesIII 
I         E      fI                                     I                   II
17.  L&muma7 t   dpit for 1tional             34220                  -      I      342,200     1
mm                          54"436b7s84 I  I                I                   I
I              loA                         5,499,436    I                   I    7,807,475     I
I   _     _     _     _     __          .1.  _ _ _    _ 1   1___             _  ___



- 58 -                                                  AN
Table I
MIUhASI WEtNIC OIrStns Cstes. PROECT
PJtCT  COTS  Y CONwPt 0 CAtESltS Of tEtNEOTUR
lNOuo OF SsLMS
... ..............................................       .    .... ................................         .............................................. 
!                               !                      COIIPUSw l                                                         I TOTAL      TOTAL
!                                !---------I -***-- ----------*--...........................- .  *- ........ ..................!  PIROJECT  SAS !
CA! EOOSI OF f   tait        1 !. PtItEIOI a CONtROL Of  twiis            I   tt    !  111         IV    !    V           COSt      COST
!.                                                                  IOTA. !Cafh! m.    O PA.   I ltit.  !  4103    !
!               ~                  am !          ! ill1   ! UZS1)U ! C       !OU .  ull. !J    A. I!     ?   ! c             I                 !
....................................... .                                    ......              ..............             .     ........
!1. IRVEStIU  COSTS             !          !                                 a !  !     !          !         !
- Civil Ok s                        0.0 !     0.0!        0.0        0.0 !      0.0 t      0.0   13,620.2 !       0.0 1!3.620.2!       6.!
!* tEilwt d& Fifhtuit        !      7.4! 4,517.5 !    29.9 ! 6,134.0 !   310.1 !           0.0 ! 1,tt1.l 1   21530.   11,007.5 1       5.5!
!* field lk                            0.0 ! C,OO.C3 ! 4,210.6 1142.218.9    1.2M.4 !         0.0 !      0.0 !    140.0 !143.64S.3        7 11.0
!  * teical Assist               !    27.9 !    27.9        27.9       a .7 !    44.          0.0 I   301.7 !       60.0      4 490.1 1   0.2
!  * taiuiI                  !    47.9!    63.!    57 1.7    1,26.41          44 1    0.0 1    174.1 !  2,506.0!  3,9"2.0!           2.0!
* ProeSct Iplemtatia   llit!        0.0 !      0.0 !      0.0 !      0.0 !      0.0 !      0.0    6,361.3 !       0.0 !          !
!     Publictiy/     Ndie    I     0.0 !      0.0 !       0.0 !      0.0 ! 5.00.6 !        0.0 !      0.0!   2,049.3 !
*0.. *   wcb Studi           !       . 0.0! 0.0!          0.0!       0.0        0.0   1        !20.0  0.0!            !          !         !
!                    !          ! ~        ~     ~    ~     ~ ~        ~    ~     ~ ~        ~ ~        ~~ !  !  a  !  !  a  a      a 
I  TOTAL lKtSIt cOts                 %3.2 ! U.190. i 65,550.1 !140,703.0 ! 7.S46.5  I,S0.0 !22.29.1    7,406.9 !1N.46.3 !   94.1 !
!   - l gtal Staft           ! 3.623.2       377.5 !      0.0   4,000.7 ! 2.34.3 !         0.0 !      0.0 !       0.0 ! 6.335.0 !    3.2 !
!  * Coa    tu  S ic         !   145.3!    470.0 !   0.0   1 1,44.1              .0        0.0 !  1,031.7 !       0.0 ! 2,41.8 1    1.2
!-Field W   Swu lis;            !          !          !           !          !          !          !         !           !          I          !
!     ZVsicl 0e. a W  t.        !          !    .    I            !          !          !          !         !           !           !
@     Others                     ! 1,.414. i      0.01       0.01   1 ,414.S !   702.2 !      0.0     407.7!       290.6    2,M.0 !!
!                                !         !          !           !          !         !           !                      a          a         a 
!                               !          !          !           !          3          I         !          !            !          !        !
TOTAL       .    ,           I S11,.0 I   0.3 I   0.01 6,09.3 ! 3,036.5 i                  0.0!  1,525.4   !  290.6  11,721.0   ! S .9 !
10t1t  M o  OW   CT             ! 6,146.2 1041.0 t W. I6.11  I,S73.l   1 t5.O0 I 1,50.O ! 23,754.5 1  7,777.5 10.160.1 !  100.01
|IPIIYSICI CUItIIIUICIIS         1   401.0 1 4,445.? ! 3,569,0 I 3,419.7 !   542.2 1          0.0 1 1,074.1 i  1,074.1 ! 11,110.1 !    5.5 !
10Ct c!o o                           230 I 3,142.2! 2,112.4 1 5,474.6 1   S2.  !    43.5 I                .3 !    424.3 1 6.749.2 1    3.4 !
0L 1       0 COT                 I 67.M.2 ! 91,62.7  1!2,..   1  0,46.4 !    11,107.71  ! 1,1S.5 I  ,252.9t I  95.9 1211,047.4  ! 10.9 !
!3 Of ON     t   tA.OOOT         1 St      !0.2                                    5 .3       0.7!      11.6 !  0,516.2 !
!   1t30                        1   404.6!  2,195.6 ! 4,057.4 t 6,737.6 !   171.0 !           0.0 ! 2,469.0 !  2a4.0 1 1104! ,6.6 !
9/13/07..........                          _    ..........   ...   _   ...   _  ... _ ...._......._..._



- - - - - - - - - ---   - - - - - --- - - - - -
o~~~~~~~~ g. 4 q qf 9 A- E  q -t R. R. 
- - -- -n-- - N N     - -     _ N     
--   --- ----   ----   ------------
dl                                  U ) e  tERtRg  l  ZS g 4
M  if          -~~~~M   ---   I -- -- - -    -. --- -
X ! X    "   IM  qt    k § 9. q  4 RE R 4
.~~~~~~~~        ER  1.q94q                  
E~~~~~1  a         a   A       
--~- -- - - --------------------
J  i                         1      I 
I''i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-----------------------
- -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
g%  g
----  - -------------- -- ---- ----
mb s
Il1 S          - VO  I. _o .  s-  v °
_____________________-_-_-- -   __ I 
0W  )? )                 W% )0%
24  " t "    F    u  HF C   ewe                  |
----   -- - --  -   -----------  ---  -- -
_____________________________ ____I
-d -    - -  ---    -- - - - _- -    --    ---    ---
I--    - -- - - - - - -  -"  - -- -- -- --     -~ - g -f



ANNE 7
- 61 -                              Table 1
BRAZIL
Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                  Loan amount              Disbursement
(US million)              Percentage
1. Civil Works                      6.0                50%
2. Bquipment and Furniture          8.5
a) Irc                    1001 of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
b) LCB                    50% of local expenditures
3. Chemicals and Drugs             28.5
a) ICB                   1001 of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
b) LCB                   501 of local expenditures
4. Training. Research. Teecnical   6.0        100% of foreign expenditures
Assistance & Mass Media                    for consultants hired abroad;
50% of local expenditure
for local consultants and
other items of category (4)
5. wages                           27.0       60% until disbursements have
reached the aggregate of $5.0
million; thereafter, 50% until
disbursements have reached the
aggregate of $11.0 million;
thereafter. 401 until
disbursements have reached the
aggregate of $17.0 million;
thereafter, 30% until
disbursements have reacbed the
aggregate of $22.5 million; and
25% thereafter.
6. Incremental Operating Costs    13.0                      411
7. Unallocated                     20.0
TOTAL          109.0



- 62 -
AM= 7
'tb reZ
BRAZIL
Northoast Endemic Disease Control ProJect
ESTDIMTED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Fiscal Year        t Disbmenta 1 Acamulated    LUndisbursed  t
DiBburaements       blance
Saemter ihding         amount   x       amount  X       amount  X
E__ 
June 30\.1               8.0   7.3        7.3      8.0   101.0   92.6
EA
December 31              1.5   1.0        9.5      8.3    99.0   90.8
June 30                 15.0  13.8       24.5     22.1    84.5   77.5
December 31             15.0  13.8       39.5     36.2    69.5   63.8
June 30                 10.5   9.6       50.0     46.0    59.0   54.0
EM
December 31             15.0  13.8       65.0     59.6    44.0   40.4
June 30                 11.0  10.0       76.0     69.7    33.0   30.3
December 31             14.0  12.8       90.0     82.6    19.0    17.4
June 30                  8.0   7.3       98.0     90.0    11.0    10.1
December 31\.2          11.0   10.0    109.0    100.0      0.0     0.0
1    Special Account deposits of US$4.5 million (CIBSA), and V1$3.5
million (FluA).
2    Project completion date is June 30, 1993 and Project closing date
is December 31, 1993.



- 63 -
amAL                        AN! 8
na  am cM= -M         =               M
Table 1
S=nrs ~mA~~ca=
I  _
I  mXaPI
I   -    I
I aL  I
I        l
m= 
'  '  '  '        I   r   l  of I     u  I    (
Dh1-            1 1.
rAk I  I      I               I         I
DW              J  l~           I,    NIII
3__L,,,   ,, I    ,,   I Iu.I
-- I C#JAE  Ii..i.i00I       Ih
L,,ffi,, 7Lw
a"       !  t               r-           t
I          I  _             _l
D -timo ault of Uuitmi
-u~uicy of MlIC o b Ceuffi u
-  ftblic akb Sde vcm_ de hatm
0f ~ iio  of fo _ 
(Comdra di ~ra  di Nojnto)



64 -A                                            8
nIJU   0011mo co
f WCAN 
S,UPRIIE NDENT
COGEP I     TECNICAL
COPLAN                             PEOJECT _ ADVISORY
MANAGER      COMMITTEE
|ENDEMC DISEASE         ADMINISTRATIVE                PERSONL             ADMINISTRATIVE
-   CONTItOL          DAENT                       DEPANENT              FINANCING
DEPARTllEtl                                                               DEPARr'! T
Chagas Division        Transport Div.                Recruiting/        [Budget Div.
Schistosoui"as Div.    material Suppl. Div.          Selection Div.    L. Financing Div.
Leishuaniasis Div.   ECounicationa Div.            -Legal Division
Technical Div.
REItONAL DIECTORATES|
-laul
Rio Grande do Norte
Paraiba
Pernauco
Alagoa
Sergipe
Bahia
lungs Gerais



-65 -                                 ANNEX 9
S3LECTED DOCUMHNTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT UILES
1.  Ministerio da Saude - SUCAMs Projeto de Controle de Doencas endemicas
no Nordeste. June. 1987. (This document is intended to be used as
part of the Project Implementation Volume).
2.  Ministerio da Saude - SUCAMs  Projeto de expansao do Coutrole de
esquistosomose no Nordeste. March 1987.
3.   Ministerio da Saude - SUCAMs  Plano Especial de Controle da
Leishmaniose no Nordeste do Brasil. March 1987.
4. Ministerio da Saude - SUCAMt Programa de Kalazar: Plano de hmpausao.
March 1987.
5.  OPS/OMS Brasil: Projeto de Desenvolvimento Institucional da SUCAM.
July 17. 1986.
6. Ministerio da Saude. Programa Nacional de Controle e Prevencao da
SIDA/AIDS: Projeto para ser apresentado ao Banco Internacional de
Reconstrucao e desenvolvimento (BIRD). July 1987.
7.  Cristalli, Carlos (Cover letter and attacbment). Parecer do IPLAN
sobre o Projeto "Endemia. no Nordeste." PARECER IPLAN/CSP No. 009/87.
Junio 29. 1987.
8.  WHO (1984): Chemical Methods for the Control of Arthropod Vectors and
Pests of Public Health Importance (chapters relevant to the project).
9.  Reglamento Interno da SUCAM. PORTARIA No.161/BSB/76 Publicada no
Dierio Oficial de 26.05.76.



NOTES



MAP SECTION



lIORD
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENOEMIC DISEASES CONTROL PROJECT
o    State Capitals                                  Northeast Region Boundciry
*    Notional Capital                                State Boundaries
International Boundaries
t   VENEZUELA  -                                              klein                      PROGRAM FOR
__ c UtA /    } \S^ts                                              LEISHMANIASIS CONTROL
I  *n  {'  ZFREgHOWAN4                      /     Z    '     .RA
Area of Maps                                              Nftal
PARAARNH_
(           <  NORTHEASA                                               S A g PiAUI ~~F   *  9NO
B R A Z I L /   7                                            :-< E se
GOIASU  |  ;  t           ?(*        Atlantic
aBOLMA            Baii
Atlantic      Brasilia
. C X  _#j 0PAIGUAI 
Ocean      oala
n'o  A '  '.  --  lINAS GERAIS4 '
_/,,.fisiiin  NPROGRAM FOR                                                         PROGRAM FOR
| i'   SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL                                     CHAGAS CONTROL
.S./y/,///fA/?  I .  I U*Cesd                          S      V\ .  ..!s p I   1 UtbdMAtAN
SAO PAULO [////../Xi   ,Q--  >.   .                    VO PARA 
7/ _ _ * <        A/  7-
Atlantic  ~   ~       ~        Hl"~Atlantic
Ot.lean                                             Ocean
Nm Co" AWAft        INAS GE1RAIS45P         Z 1NwCstol ActMfl
SAO PAULO                               L9o #AS                        -41o                        MILES
> ~      ~~~ 0      40 KIOWSU                                              4KILOMIlR



