Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16694
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Loan 2931-BR
June 6, 1997
Social and Human Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 5, 1997)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$ 1.00     =  US$ 1.07
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CODEPRO        Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Projetos
Project Management Coordination Unit
COGEP          Coordenadoria de Ger8ncia de Projetos
Project Management Coordination Unit
DALY           Disability-Adjusted Life Years
FIOCRUZ        Fundacao Instituto Oswaldo Cruz
Oswaldo Cruz Institute Foundation
ENS            Fundacao Nacional de Sauide
National Health Foundation
FSESP          Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica
Public Health Services Foundation
IBAM           Instituto Brasileiro de Administra=ao Municipal
Brazilian Institute for Municipal Administration
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
IERR           Internal Economic Rate of Return
KAP            Knowledge, attitudes and practices
MOH            Ministry of Health
MPAS           Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social
Ministry of Social Security and Welfare
NHF            National Health Foundation
NGO            Non Government Organization
PAHO           Pan American Health Organization
SES            Secretaria Estadual de Sauide
State Health Secretariat
SUCAM          Superintendencia para Campanhas de Saiude Puiblica
Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns
SUS            Sistema Unico de Saude
Unified Health System
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President       Shahid Javed Burki
Director            Gobind T. Nankani
Country Sector Leader Alain Colliou
Staff Memeber       Alexandre V. Abrantes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 2931-BR
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                                   .....................................................1i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................... ii
PART I: FINDINGS AND LESSONS
A. Background .....................................................                                                        1I
B. Project Objectives ......................................................3
C. Project Implementation ......................................................5
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................8
E. Performance ......................................................8
F. Assessment of Outcomes .....................................................                                          10
G. Future Operations ......................................................11
H. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................                                             12
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments .....................................................                                 14
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................................                          ................   15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .....................................................                                        16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ..................... 16
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ...........................                         .............. 17
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................................... 18
Table 7:    Studies Included  in Project .....................................................                           19
Table 8a: Project Costs .....................................................                                           21
Table 8b: Project Financing .....................................................                                       21
Table 9a:  Cost-effectiveness Analysis .....................................................                            22
Table 9b: Cost-benefit Analysis .....................................................                                   23
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                              25
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ................................ 26
Table  12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual) ......................................... 26
Table  13: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                               27
Table  14: Documents in Project File  .....................................................                             28
Map: IBRD Nos. 21334 and 20434
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






DEFINITIONS
CHAGAS DISEASE: (American Trypanosomiasis) is a disease which occurs in Central and South
America, is caused by a parasite known as Trypanosoma cruzi. The disease is observed at any
age, altough children are mainly affected. The disease can present itself as a congenital, acute or
chronic affliction, affecting mainly the heart and the gastrointestinal tract, and leading to
dilatation of the heart, arrhythmia, heart failure, megaesophagus and megacolon, all of which
result in severe disability and can lead to death. Humans and marsupials are the major disease
reservoir. The disease is predominantly transmitted by vector bugs of the genera Triatoma,
which are largely disseminated throughout rural areas of Latin America, where mud huts of the
agricultural workers are their favorite habitats. Transmission occurs predominantly at night,
since the bugs attack only at night. Other less usual methods of transmission are transplacental,
blood transfusion and laboratory transmission from infected syringes or blood. Residual
insecticides applied to floors, walls and thatch will elimintate most vectors, but reinfestation can
occur in a few months. Chagas' disease flourishes only where socio-economic levels are low,
and long-term control measures involve economic rehabilitation, in particular, better housing:
thatched roofs and unplastered mud walls must be replaced with materials and designs where
bugs find no harbor.
SCHISTOSOMIASIS is a disease caused by a species of parasites known as Schistosoma
mansoni. The disease causes a variety of symptoms affecting mainly the liver. Severe forms can
lead to liver failure and death. There is a strong relationship between the intensity of infection
(parasite load) and severity of the disease. Patients eliminate the parasite's eggs through the
feces. When these eggs end in water they hatch and produce free living forms (miracidium)
which invade some particular species of snails which act as intermediary hosts. In the snails, the
miracidia evolve into free swimming larval forms (cercariae) which abandon the intermediary
host and on contact with humans penetrate the skin and migrate to the bowel and the liver.
Humans acquire the infection by wading, swimming, bathing or washing clothes and utensils in
the streams containing free-swimming cercariae, which have developed in snails and penetrate
the human skin. Three species of snails (intermediary host) exist along the northeast Atlantic
coast and in other focal areas throughout the country. Control is based on diagnosis and
treatment of patients with appropriate chemotherapy (oxaminiquine and praziquantel), avoidance
of pollution of surface waters, elimination of the vector with moluscicides, prevention of human
contact with the infected water, health education and community participation, ideally in an
integrated approach.
LEISHMANIASIS is a disease caused by protozooa known as Leishmania.  The disease can
present itself as a severe visceral disease (kala-azar), or as a chronic cutaneous or muco-
cutanuous sore (Tegumentar American Leishmaniasis -- TAL). Kala-azar is predominantly a
disease of children under 10 years of age. The disease reservoir are dogs, humans and rodents.
The vector which transmits the disease from one reservoir to another in the Americas is the
Lutzomia sandfly. When the appropriate sandfly feeds on an infected dog or person, it ingests
the parasite with the blood meal. These develop in the sandfly into intermediate forms which are
passed to the new hosts when they next feed. In the new host the parasite reassumes its
leishmania form and migrates to deep-seated organs such as the liver or the spleen (visceral



leishmaniasis), or they go back to the skin. Leishmaniasis control is based on identifying and
treating infected persons, attacking the sandfly, as well as the animal reservoir of infection.
Pentavalent antiominals are the choice for treating kala-azar and TLA. Sandfly bites can be
partially avoided by sleeping on the upper floors of houses and using repellents.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 2931 -BR
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Northeast Endemic
Disease Control Project in Brazil, for which loan 2931-BR in the amount of US$109
million equivalent was approved in June 1988 and made effective in December 1988. In
1991, US$20 million and in 1993, US$ 7 million were canceled from the original loan
amount reducing the loan amount to US$82 million. The loan Closing Date was June 30,
1996.
The ICR was prepared by Alexandre Abrantes (Senior Public Health Specialist,
LASHD), in collaboration with Claudia Rosenthal Dariush Akhavan, James Cercone
(consultants), Renato Gusmao (PAHO) and Brenda C. Enuton (Operations Analyst,
LASHD). Assistance in the production of the report was provided by Sarah Menezes
(Task Assistant, LASHD). It was reviewed by Alain Colliou (Country Sector Leader,
LAl) and Orville Grimes (Projects Adviser, LA1). The Borrower provided comments
that are included in the project file.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final completion mission, on July
10, 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower provided reports and
other materials and contributed insights through interviews.






ii
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Loan Number 2931 -BR
EVALUATION SUMMARY
BRAZIL
Introduction.  A significant portion of Brazil's territory is located in the tropical zone,
where the environment is rich in vectors and reservoirs of communicable diseases. Many of
those have become endemic, primarily due to insufficient control measures, exacerbated by
limited resort to treatment even for those diseases that are treatable. At the time of project
preparation, the health status in the Northeast was poor, as evidenced by the low life
expectancy at birth of 51 years (65 years for the whole country), high infant mortality rate
of 125 per 1,000 live births (67/1,000 for the whole country), and an exceptionally high
prevalence of endemic infectious diseases including Chagas'disease, schistosomiasis, and
leishmaniasis. Endemic diseases were, and still are, responsible for a considerable burden of
death, disease and disability, with direct and indirect economic impacts, such as high costs
of medical and hospital care, low labor productivity and loss of productive years of life. In
the early 1980s, endemic disease control programs were short of resources, and covered
less than one half of the population living in high endemicity areas.
In 1986, the Government of Brazil asked for the Bank's help in addressing the
burden of disease caused by endemic diseases in Northeast Brazil. The Bank was becoming
familiar with such projects, as the health sector had made control of communicable disease
a priority. In Brazil, the Bank had already financed a malaria control component, within the
Northwest Region Integrated Development Program - Health (Ln. 2061-BR). This time,
the Brazilian Government wanted to extend and strengthen its endemic disease control
efforts in the Northeast, and to develop a successful management program within the
Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns -- SUCAM, a federal agency represented in
all 26 States, with 40,000 staff, which had general responsibility for endemic disease
control in Brazil.
Project Objectives. As originally conceived, the project's objective were to reduce the
prevalence of Chagas'disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis in the Northeast, and
bring the intensity of human infection to minimum levels where only epidemiological
surveillance activities would be needed to keep these diseases under control. This was to be
done mostly through vector control. A second objective was to strengthen SUCAM's
capacity and efficiency to expand control activities in the Northeast. A complementary
objective was to support the MOH activities to reduce the occurrence of new AIDS cases.
The project involved five components: (1) prevention and control of disease transmission,
i.e. vector control; (2) institutional development; (3) community mobilization; (4)
operational research; and (5) AIDS prevention and control.



iii
The project covered about 1018 municipalities in which the responsible vectors
were prevalent, in nine Northeastern states (Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, and Sergipe), and in sections of the states of
Minas Gerais, Goias, Parana, and Rio Grande do Sul. The target high-risk population
covered by the project was 12.2 million for Chagas disease; 30 million for Schistosomiasis,
and 8.4 million for Leishmaniasis.
Implementation Experience and Results. The project got off to turbulent start, due to
political and institutional instability. By the end of 1992, after five years of project
implementation, only 34 percent of the loan funds had been disbursed. Management was
poor during the early years, and SUCAM was eventually dissolved and absorbed into
another federal agency. This happened at the time of the Collor government, under which
there were four Ministers of Health and six different project managers.
The situation greatly improved after 1992, when the Bank and the Borrower
agreed to a radical reorientation of the project. The strategy was to target vector control
on the basis of epidemiological information, and to complement traditional vector control
with early diagnosis and vigorous treatment. After 1993, implementation accelerated and
the project ended 30 months after the original closing date with full disbursement and
significant and positive impact on the incidence, the severity and the mortality of Chagas
Disease, schistosomiasis and leishmaniasis. Vector transmission of Chagas disease
transmitted by TJ infestans has almost been interrupted as well as blood transfusion. The
1995 kala-azar epidemic in Piauf and Maranhao was brought under control much faster
than a similar epidemic which took place 10 years earlier, and the fatality rate was a
fraction of what it had been in the previous epidemic. Between 1988 and 1996, the project
is estimated to have prevented about 18,500 deaths, which translates into about 520,000
disability adjusted life years (DALYs) saved. With an US$140.8 million investment
involved, the project cost about US$558 per DALY saved, which places it among the high
cost-effectiveness health interventions (Table 9a). The project saved about US$470 million
in direct and indirect benefits with a total present net present value (benefits - costs = NPV))
of just over US$370 million, or 2.5 times the total investment. This corresponds to an
internal economic rate of return (IERR) of over 500 percent and a pay back period of
aproximately five years. That is, by 1993, the project had already generated retums
equivalent to the total investment of US$140 million over the period of 1988-1996 (Table
9b.).
Also important was the creation of a new scheme of management and
accountability for health projects that did not exist previously, and the transfer of more
power and authority for health programs to states and municipalities. Many towns now
have laboratories to make diagnoses, trained staff to administer treatments, and specialists
who can control different vectors and reservoirs in infected areas. Further, the project
introduced management contracts, performance indicators, monitoring, supervision and
evaluation, which are now common practices not only in the National Health Foundation
regional offices, but also in state and municipal health secretariats.



iv
Sustainability and Lessons for Future Operations. The project leaves an extended
Chagas control program, an expanded Schistosomiasis control program, and new
knowledge of how to control kala-azar epidemics. It leaves a network of equipped and
staffed laboratories, as well as a better defined reference system and strengthened
institutional capacity to deal with endemic diseases in the Unified Health System (SUS).
Some states and municipal health secretariats are now ready to take responsibility for
financing and organizing endemic disease control. Changes in the SUS payment system,
consisting in the reimbursement of traditional health promotion and disease prevention
interventions carried out by states, municipalities or NGOs, ensure sustainable financing
of the recurrent costs associated with endemic disease control.






BRAZIL
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan No. 2931-BR)
PART I: FINDINGS AND LESSONS
A. BACKGROUND
Endemic Diseases.  This project was designed to assist the Government in a
five-year program to arrest the increasing trends of three endemic diseases, Chagas' disease,
schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis in Northeast Brazil.
Endemic Diseases.
(a) Chagas'disease. At the time of project preparation, there were about 6 million
Chagas' disease patients in Brazil, of which 60 percent lived in the Northeast, and another
15 million more were at risk of contracting the disease by living in inadequate dwellings
infested with the vector (Triatoma infestans). In addition, many more were at risk of
getting infected through blood transfusions and transplacental infection. The existing
Chagas' Disease Control Program covered 2050 municipalities in 19 states, which had been
identified as endemic areas by the 1981 national Chagas'serological survey. In the absence
of vaccines and effective pharmaceuticals suitable for large-scale treatment of Chagas'
disease, interruption of transmission had to rely on insecticides to ensure vector control,
blood donor screening and blood transfusion control, which had been proven successful in
medium-scale trials in Brazil and in other countries. Home improvements, to get the vector
out of the household, was used as the long-term approach for solving the problem. Between
1975 and 1986, the Program was able to reduce incidence to low levels in only 414 (20%)
of those municipalities, and more than 60 percent of blood banks did not screen donors for
Chagas' disease, due to lack of laboratory resources and technical staff.
(b) Schistosomiasis. At the time of project preparation eight to ten million people
were infected with the parasite and another 30 million were at risk of contracting the
disease. The disease occurred mostly along the Northeast Atlantic coast, where a particular
species of snail which serves as the intermediary host to the Schistosoma mansoni parasite
is very common. The disease had been spreading to other areas in the Country, due to
significant migrations of infected people, which led to the contamination of soil and
waterways where the intermediary host snail existed. The Brazilian Program for
Schistosomiasis Control had been successful in controlling the disease in some areas, by
using chemotherapy and application of molluscicides in infected waterstreams. But, by
1986, the Program only covered about 40 percent of infested areas, i.e., in the states Minas
Gerais and Bahia, due to lack of resources and organizational weakness.



2
(c)  Leishmaniasis. The vector sandfly and the main disease reservoir (infected
dogs) exist throughout the Northeast, including in many urban areas. A 1985 serologic
survey showed that all Northeast states had infected dogs, with a prevalence ranging from 1
percent in Paraiba to 50 percent in Piaui. In the 1980s, Leishmaniasis Control Program
activities had been reduced due to lack of resources and institutional weakness, thus leading
to an alarming increase in new cases: between 1979 and 1985, the number of reported cases
increased from 3,243 to 16,200 per year, 95 percent of which were reported in the
Northeast. Unreported new cases could easily have tripled this figure. Over 8 million
people were estimated to be at risk. The National Leishmaniasis Control Program focused
on vector control, i.e., using insecticides to eliminate sandflies, and elimination of infected
dogs. By 1996, however, the activities of the Program were restricted to relatively few and
scattered areas in the Northeast, representing less than 25 percent of the endemic area.
(d) AIDS. AIDS appeared in the mid-1980s as a new fatal viral disease which
created a serious public health problem due to its explosive propagation in the country. In
1987, there were 267 new cases reported in Brazil in only 4 months. The onl.- effective
measures available were information, education and communication aimed at changing
risky behavior, and HIV screening of blood donors and control of tranfusions.
At the time of project preparation, the three major federal institutions supervised
by the Ministry of Health were responsible for endemic disease control in Brazil: the
Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM), the Public Health Services
Foundation (FSESP), and the Osvaldo Cruz Foundation (FIOCRUZ). States and
municipalities played a minor role in endemic disease control. SUCAM implemented
nationwide programs of prevention, control and surveillance; it was semi-autonomous
and was the lead agency for endemic disease control. It was represented in each of the 26
states and employed over 40,000 workers. The agency was noted for its strong staff and
line organization, its  excellent record in implementing endemic disease control
programs, and, in particular, its ability to sustain programs in remote areas under difficult
conditions. In 1988, SUCAM created a Coordination Unit for Project Management
(COGEP) to coordinate Bank-supported projects: the Northeast Endemic Disease Control
(Ln. 2931-BR) and the Amazon Basin Malaria Control Project (Ln 3072-BR). In 1991,
SUCAM and FSESP were closed and their functions transferred to a new institution: the
National Health Foundation (NHF), with headquarters in Brasilia. The NHF created a
special unit, CODEPRO (Coordenadoria de Gerencia de Projetos) to manage Bank-
funded projects.
Brazil's Constitution of 1988 called for universal health coverage for all citizens.
This Constitution established the principles of a Unified Health System (SUS) which
would publicly finance personalized health services for the entire population, to be
provided through a decentralized network of public and private providers. The SUS was
created in 1990, and state and municipal governments have been progressively gaining
more health care planning and management responsibilities, including those of endemic



3
disease control.  SUS hospitals and ambulatory networks did not have a tradition of
diagnosing or treating endemic diseases. Most endemic disease patients seeking care in a
SUS facility were referred to SUCAM (later NHF) units.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Objectives. The main objective of the project was to reduce the prevalence of
Chagas'disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis to levels at which only
epidemiological surveillance was needed to keep these diseases under control. The
project also aimed at improving the institutional capacity of SUCAM to carry out disease
prevention programs in the Northeast. The project would also assist the development of a
National AIDS and STD Control Program.
Definition. To achieve this goal the project would: (a) control the presence of
disease vectors and intermediary hosts in the households and in neighboring
environments, by applying pesticides and carrying out health education; (b) reduce the
human reservoir of these diseases by early diagnosis and treatment of target population
groups; (c) set up surveillance activities for populations at risk; (d) strengthen SUCAM's
capacity and efficiency to expand control activities in the Northeast; and, (e) support the
MOH activities aimed at reducing the occurrence of AIDS cases.
Cost and Timing. At an expected cost of US$218 million to be supported by a
US$109 million Bank loan, the project was made effective in December 1988, to be
completed on June 30, 1993, and closed by June 30, 1994. The project closing date was
extended 24 months to June 30, 1996. There were two cancellations from the original
loan amount: US$20 million in 1991, and US$7 million in 1994. Thus, the revised loan
amount was US$82 million for Loan No. 2931 -BR.
Achievement of Objectives. As a result of the project, hospital admissions and
deaths from Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis have all decreased,
suggesting a reduction in the incidence and/or a reduction in the severity of these
diseases. Vector and blood transmission of Chagas' disease was interrupted in large
endemic areas. The number of severe schistosomiasis cases and the respective mortality
were significantly reduced. The cyclical visceral leishmaniasis (kala-azar) epidemic,
which occurred in 1995 in Piaui and Maranhao, was brought under control much faster
and with many fewer deaths than a similar epidemic having occurred 10 years previously.
Chagas'disease. The project reduced the incidence of transfusional Chagas' disease
by 89.7 percent, more than the 80 percent reduction which had been set as a target a the
time of project preparation.  Hospital admission and mortality rates decreased
significantly. Vector and transfusion transmission have been interrupted in large endemic
areas, and the Triatoma infestans (vector) have been eradicated from most States. There
are several indirect indications that transmission and incidence of Chagas' disease are
decreasing: (a) between 1989 and 1995 alone, the prevalence of houshold infestation by



4
the T. infestans fell by more than 20 percent; (b) between 1957 and 1995, the number of
municipalities in the endemic area (i.e. 2,500 municipalities) where transmission has been
interrupted rose from 414 to over 940, bringing the population at risk from about 70
million down to about 40 million; (c) between 1987 and 1995 the proportion of positive
blood donor samples decreased from about 1 percent to less than 0.7 percent; (d) between
1986 and 1996 the number of cases caused by transfusion of infected blood fell from
20,000 per year to about 500 per year; (e) between 1985 and 1995, the number of hospital
admissions due to Chagas' disease decreased from about 751 to less than 123; and finally
and most importantly (f) between 1975 and 1985, Chagas' disease specific mortality, for
the age groups which could have benefited significantly from the project (i.e., aged 10-14
and 15-19), dropped by about 89 percent.
Schistosomiasis: Between 1988 and 1996, the number of hospital admissions due
to schistosomiasis in the Northeast dropped from 2,900 to 1,400, and the number of
hospital days dropped by 50 percent, from about 23,000 to 14,000, suggesting a reduction
in incidence and/or a reduction in the severity of the disease. During the same interval
the schistosomiasis mortality rate dropped from 9.8 to 5.8 per million inhabitants, a 41
percent reduction, which is smaller than the 50 percent reduction target set at the time of
project preparation. Most of the Northeast region currently has a prevalence of only 25
percent from the figures of 1988, with some parts showing a lower prevalence of 5 to 10
percent.
Leishmaniasis: In 1995, the Northeast experienced an epidemic of kala-azar, one
that has occurred cyclically every 10 years. As a result, the number of cases jumped from
700 to 1,500 cases per year, which were observed in the late 1980s and early 1990s, to
3,600 in 1995. The project was able to bring the number down to 2,500 in less than a
year, and down to pre-epidemic levels in less than two years, much faster than during the
epidemic which occurred ten years before. In addition, and in spite of the epidemic, the
kala-azar fatality rate dropped from 7.9 per 100 cases in 1988, to 3.51 per 100 cases in
1996, suggesting better diagnosis and treatment of cases. The project did not manage to
reduce the incidence of kal-azar by 30 percent as anticipated at project appraisal. The
epidemiological information on cutaneous leishmaniasis is scarce and does not allow for
proper evaluation and does not allow to judge whether the project did reduce the
incidence of the disease by 50 percent as estimated at project appraisal.
Rabies: although not part of the original project, and at the request of the
Borrower, the Bank agreed that the activities of Rabies Control could be associated with
those of canine leishmaniasis control. As a result, the coverage of dog anti-rabies
vaccination grew significantly from 56 percent in 1989 to over 83 percent in 1995, and
the number of rabies cases dropped by 50 percent, from 57 in 1995 to 31 in 1995.
Institutional Development. The project left a network of well-equipped public
health laboratories in the Northeast and in Minas Gerais; a large pool of trained
professionals (enough to staff all regional offices); and hundreds of trained middle level
staff, not only in the NHF federal and regional offices, but also in state and municipal



5
health secretariats. The project leaves an expanded Chagas and schistosomiasis control
programs, and new experience in how to control a kala-azar epidemic. In addition, many
personal health care services of the Unified Health System acquired the capacity and the
supplies necessary to diagnose and treat patients with Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis
and leishmaniosis. Furthermore, the project introduced a new management culture and
instruments, including management contracts, performance indicators, monitoring,
supervision, and evaluation.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation and Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation. The project
tested two major approaches over the traditional endemic disease control programs which
focused on the eradication of vectors and elimination of infected reservoirs. First, the
project began to target vector control to a limited number of municipalities and localities
with the highest incidence of Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, or leishmaniasis, as
opposed to the traditional approach of making widespread use of insecticides and
moluscicides to eradicate the vectors and reservoir snails. Second, much more emphasis
was put into early diagnosis and vigorous treatment of patients, both in the NHF facilities
and in the health services of the Unified Health System (SUS).
After a slow start and a 24-month extension of the closing date, the project used
the full proceeds of the loan:
Part A: Prevention and Control of Disease Transmission. This component of the
project executed 80 percent of funds, financing the application of pesticides,
molluscicides, household sanitation and rehabilitation, the elimination of dogs infected
with leishmaniasis, as well as the diagnosis and treatment of patients. Activities were in
most cases carried out in partnership between the SUCAM/NHF and municipal health
secretariats. In most cases, the former provided for the training, equipment and supplies,
while the later provided the necessary community health workers. The decentralization
process of the activities involved in this strategy remains effective, and the local
responsibility for the programs keeps growing.
(a) Chagas' disease: This subcomponent executed about 17 percent of project
funds, five times more than had been anticipated at appraisal. The project financed the
purchase of insecticides, trained hundreds of field inspectors, which constitute the
backbone of vector control, created a serologic surveillance system based on 12 reference
laboratories, left one reference entomologic laboratory for the diagnosis and study of the
Triatoma genera, controlled transmission via contaminated transfusions, and left a
network of well-equipped personal health services which provide improved care for
Chagas patients. In the case of blood safety, public awareness and assistance from PAHO
led Brazil to pass significant legislation in 1989 and 1993, while the project made it
possible for increasing the proportion of transfusions for which the blood sample had
been tested from 10 percent in 1987, to over 60 percent in 1996, which means that the
potential infected transfusions dropped from 20,000 per year in 1987 to about 5,000 in



6
1996. In addition, the project established endemic disease control partnerships between
the federal agency (NHF/SUCAM) and numerous states and municipalities.
(b) Schistosomiasis: This subcomponent executed about 35 percent of project
funds, close to what had been anticipated at appraisal.  The project allowed
SUCAMINHF to extend its control activities to extensive endemic areas which
previously had not been covered. In Minas Gerais alone, the project extended coverage
with schistosomiasis control activities from 30 to 380 municipalities. The strategy
adopted for the control of schistosomiasis included: (i) early diagnosis and treatment of
infected people; (ii) basic household sanitation; and (iii) information, education and
communication (IEC). Again partnerships with municipalities were key to the success of
the operation. The project installed laboratories, provided supplies and equipment and
trained local agents to perform diagnostic tests and refer patients for treatment in the
network of local health care services. In addition, the project piloted the introduction of
mass-treatment of schistosomiasis in school health programs, in municipalities with a
high incidence of the disease. The project also helped set up health promotion teams at
the municipal level, which carried out significant amount of IEC activities. The project
showed that it is very difficult to eliminate low-level transmission with the traditional
control approach.  Disease eradication depends very much on environmental and
household sanitary conditions, and thus the project fostered collaboration with the
environmental sector and provided for training of thousands of municipal sanitation
agents in endemic areas.
(c) Leishmaniasis:  This subcomponent executed about 28 percent of project
funds, close to what had been estimated at appraisal. In the case of cutaneous
leishmaniasis, and given the paucity of epidemiological data, the project focused on
establishing an adequate information system, on establishing laboratories capable of
diagnosing the disease, and on training doctors and other health care personnel in the
appropriate treatment of the disease. In the case of kala-azar, the project set up a network
of laboratories, provided equipment and supplies for controlling the sandflies, established
a network of municipal kennels equipped for diagnosing and eliminating infected dogs,
and established treatment protocols, trained doctors and other health care personnel in
treating the disease. Treatment of this form of the disease requires specialized medical
expertise, which most physicians did not have. Therefore, one of the main contributions
of the project to the reduction of the incidence of this disease was the establishment, with
the assistance of PAHO, of treatment protocols for kala-azar, training of medical
personnel and the provision of the Glucantime, the effective chemotherapeutic agent,
which is difficult to get because it is produced by only one company in the world. The
second largest contribution of this component was to establish a network of laboratories
and kennels to diagnose canine leishmaniasis and eliminate infected dogs, the disease
reservoir, from which humans get infected via the bite of sandflies. For example, before
the project, the city of Belo Horizonte could not process more than 3,000 canine serologic
tests per month, while there was a need to carry out some 100,000 such tests. Finally, the
project financed the development and tested the use of a new serologic diagnostic method
for canine leishmaniasis (TRALD), one which allows cutting the time taken to diagnose



7
the canine disease from days to minutes, and disposal of the infected dog on the spot,
thereby reducing the transmission of the disease.
(d) Rabies and other. as mentioned earlier, at the request of the Borrower the
Bank authorized that the activities of Rabies Control be associated with those of canine
leishmaniasis control. As a result the rate of dog anti-rabies vaccination grew
significantly from 56 percent in 1989 to over 83 percent in 1995.
Part B: Community Mobilization. This component executed around 4 percent of project
funds, a little less than originally estimated. The project established state- and municipal-
based information, education and communication (IEC) teams, and financed production
of educational materials, such as posters, brochures,  and videos, and supported
community participation in endemic disease control programs. Most of the educational
activities were carried out by community health workers.
Part C: Operational Research. This component executed about 0.7 percent of project
funds as had been planned. Operational research was delayed mainly due to management
problems at SUCAM/NHF and the lack of a tradition of collaboration between health
services and academia. In the latter part of project implementation, its importance for the
improvement of institutions and programs was recognized and, by 1996, the project was
funding 22 research and development projects (Table 7). Eighteen studies funded under
the project were presented at the most important tropical disease forum in Brazil,
resulting in 12 publications, and 4 abstracts, some of which were considered particularly
innovative. This component also financed a post-graduate scholarship program to
strengthen the pool of endemic disease control specialists.
Part D: Institutional Development. This component executed 16 percent of project
funds, leaving (a) a large pool of trained personnel, (b) management information systems
which allow monitoring the epidemiological situation and the execution of different
program activities, and (c) improved public health service facilities, vehicles and
equipment which make the endemic disease control programs viable. These investments
had been originally designed to apply to SUCAMINHF facilities only, but ended up
benefiting municipal and state health secretariats which took more and more
responsibility for endemic disease control as the project developed. The project helped
forge sound partnerships between the federal agency and state and municipal health
secretariats, between academia and public health services, as well as new intersectoral
collaboration between the health sector and the education and environment sectors.
Part E: AIDS ControL This component executed about 4 percent of project funds,
financing the production of mass media campaigns and various educational materials, and
the acquisition of equipment and supplies for blood banks and public health laboratories.
The project helped establish the National AIDS and STD Control Program and prepare a
specific investment project which the Bank is now financing (AIDS and STD Control
Project, Ln. 3659-BR).



8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
This project leaves behind a strong base from which Brazil can continue its already
successful endemic disease control programs. The infrastructure and equipment established
by the project, all the staff of whom were trained by the project, and the experience gained
in the fields of management and partnerships should not disappear now that the Bank's
involvement has ended. The introduction of endemic disease control activities among the
expenditures reimbursable by the Unified Health System (SUS) will cover recurrent costs
and further ensure sustainability.
The project put endemic disease control on the agenda of state and municipal
governments, as well as on the agenda of other key agencies operating in the regions which
are increasingly assuming responsibility for vector-borne disease control. The project
introduced a financing system by which the Unified Health System reimbursed
municipalities for endemic disease control activities, making the decentralization of
endemic disease control financially sustainable. The project trained hundreds at the state
and municipal levels, enabling a follow-up of all necessary activities, and the
decentralization of health actions in the region. These benefits were gained in spite of the
fact that the project was implemented at a time of political and macroeconomic instability,
of reduced technical and managerial capabilities, and changing and uncertain institutional
environ-ments. The project also leaves a culture of management and accountability which
did not exist before.  Management contracts, performance indicators, monitoring,
supervision and evaluation were introduced by the project and are now common practice
not only in the regional offices of NHF but in state and municipal health secretariats.
E. PERFORMANCE
Borrower Performance. Project management was poor during the early years of
project implementation, due to frequent changes in Government. In the early 1990s, a
series of political appointees in a volatile political environment almost brought the project
to a halt. During the project's life, there were eight Ministers of Health. These resulted in
further changes at other levels of government, including six project coordinators in 1991
and 1992 alone, halting actions and decisions and thus delaying project implementation.
Also, priorities changed from one administration to another, and commitments made in
prior administrations were not always maintained by others.
In its early stages, project implementation was also slowed by counterpart fund
and procurement problems. Counterpart funds were difficult to secure during the first
part of project implementation, but have been adequate and timely since 1994. The fact
that the Bank allowed the use of Special Account funds to be used as advances, together
with matching counterpart funds, facilitated disbursements, because there was no longer a



9
need for the counterpart funds to cover the full cash flow up to the reimbursement. The
project disbursed the full proceeds of the loan with only small deviations from the
proportions agreed with the Bank for each disbursement category.
Intemational competitive bidding for insecticides and pharmaceuticals was
extremely difficult because the international market is oligopolistic. The interest groups
involved are extremely powerful, and tried to invalidate the bidding procedure in court.
As a result, further large purchases of insecticides, pharmaceuticals, and specialized
equipment were done using limited international bidding, through PAHO. The latter
process was very efficient: prices were very good, and the process was transparent. But it
took longer than six months between the request to purchase and the delivery of the
goods, much longer than both the Borrower and the Bank had anticipated, but still within
the time taken by other UN agencies such as UNICEF. National competitive bidding at
state and municipal levels was more effective than similar bidding at the federal level to
purchase smaller quantities of goods, again because of the interests involved in a large
federal bidding processes, and because the federal level was not able to plan and carry out
procurement and distribution in a timely fashion, resulting in periods of lack of inputs
alternating with others of inefficient stockpiling.
In 1992, project management became competent and stable and from 1993,
showed excellent performance. Some committed Northeast governors and mayors took
responsibility for endemic disease control, developed state- or municipal-based endemic
disease control programs and allocated local funds to communicable disease control. At
the federal level, strong support by the Minister and by the President of the National
Health Foundation between 1993 and 1995 accelerated project implementation.
Bank Performance. The Bank and the Borrower identified and prepared the
project in much detail. The staff appraisal document and the respective background
documentation are very complete. Retrospectively, we can now say that there were three
significant flaws in terms of the objectives set for the project and project design. First,
neither the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), nor the Loan Agreement, set measurable and
realistic project outcome indicators which would have allowed closer monitoring and
evaluation of development objectives. The key indicators in the SAR consisted of
process/output indicators, with a heavy emphasis on vector control (Table 6), which did not
allow questioning whether the selected strategy was helping to reach the development
objectives. Second, there was no clear objective or strategy to reduce the severity and
mortality of either schistosomiasis or leishmaniasis, as the focus of the programs was to
eradicate the vectors and the infected reservoirs. Third, the project design was too rigid and
did not accommodate a quick response to epidemics which took place during the period of
project implementation. Between 1988 and 1996, the Northeast suffered several epidemics,
including cholera and a very serious outburst of Dengue and, in both instances, the project
was unable to support the swift response which was necessary, without having to make a
major amendment of the loan agreement.
The Bank kept a steady level of project supervision from the early stages of project
implementation, although it may have started with an excessive focus on vector control and



10
sometimes showed rigidity in the interpretation of the loan agreement. This rigidity may
have been warranted during the period of political and managerial instability. Project
supervision became more outcome-oriented and flexible after 1993, when the Borrower
appointed competent and stable project management, turning the project into a very good
performer. From 1993, project supervision emphasized: (a) outcome indicators (i.e.
reduced incidence, reduced mortality, reduced fatality rates, and reduced hospital admission
rates), as opposed to project outputs (i.e., houses sprayed, stool or dog serum tests
processed, etc.) or inputs (i.e., procurement and disbursements); (b) diagnosis and
treatment,  in addition to traditional vector or reservoir control; (c) shifting the
accountability for project performance from the PCU to states and municipalities; (d)
intensive informal supervision through electronic mail with communications flowing to and
from the PCU more than once a week (the project was one of the first to have an All-in-I
account at the Bank's Resident Mission, and later switched to a Brazilian Internet server);
and (e) flexible interpretation of the Loan Agreement to adapt to new environmental and
political realities during the long period of project implementation.
F. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Between 1988 and 1996, the project is estimated to have prevented about 18,500
deaths, which translates into about 520,000 disability adjusted life years (DALYs) saved.
Given the US$140.8 million investment involved, the project cost about US$558 per
DALY saved, which places it among the high cost-effectiveness health interventions (Table
9a). The project saved about US$470 million in direct and indirect benefits with a total
present net present value (benefits - costs = NPV)) of just over US$370 million, or 2.5 times
the total investment. This corresponds to an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of over
500 percent and a payback period of aproximately five years. That is, by 1993, the project
had already generated returns equivalent to the total investment of US$140 million over the
period of 1988-1996 (Table 9b).
Chagas' disease. The project is estimated to have prevented 12,500 cases of
Chagas' disease, and 3,800 deaths, translating into about 72,900 DALYs saved, 48 percent
from averted deaths and 52 percent from averted disability. With an investment of about
US$23 million, the component is estimated to have costed US$260 per DALY saved, which
places it among those with highest cost-effectiveness ratio. Even if we did not consider
indirect economic benefits associated with the life years saved, the program would have
returned US$2.30 for each invested dollar. The project saved a total of US$37 million in
direct benefits associated with reduced treatment costs of Chagas' disease patients and
another US$82 million in indirect benefits associated with foregone output saved. The net
present value of these benefits was US$50 million, which correspond to an internal
economic rate of return (IERR) of 164 percent (Table 9b).
Schistosomiasis. The project is estimated to have prevented at least 3,400
schistosomiasis deaths, which translates into 67,000 DALYs saved. With an investment of



11
about US$65 million the component is estimated to have cost US$980 per DALY saved,
which puts it among the moderately good cost-effective interventions. The project saved a
total of US$6 million in direct benefits associated with reduced treatment costs of
schistosomiasis patients and another US$87 million in indirect benefits associated with
foregone output saved. The net present value of these benefits was US$18 million, which
correspond to an internal economic rate of return (IERR) of 56 percent (Table 9b).
Leshmaniasis. The project is estimated to have prevented 770 cases of kala-azar,
and avoided 11,300 deaths, which translates into 380,000 DALYs gained. With an
investment of about US$53 million, the component costed about US$140 per DALY saved,
which places it among the most cost-effective public health programs. This analysis has to
be read with caution. For lack of a better model, the cost effectiveness analysis uses a
general epidemic model to estimate the expected number of cases and deaths, one which
assumes that the disease exists in an endemic state, that epidemics occur every ten years,
and that incidence increases with every successive epidemic. The model is robust for many
epidemics, but may be speculative for leishmaniasis, given the general lack of
understanding about the epidemiology of the disease. The project saved a total of US$260
million in direct benefits associated with reduced treatment costs leishmaniasis patients and
another US$494 million in indirect benefits associated with foregone output saved. The net
present value of these benefits was US$302 million, which correspond to an internal
economic rate of return (IERR) of over 2,000 percent (Table 9.b). The main reason for the
relatively high estimates for the net present value of the component, and the consequently
elevated rates of return, is that the deaths by kala-azar occur in very young children
causing a loss of 30 to 35 DALYs per death, and deaths to the sequelae of Chagas, for
example, occur at roughly 45 years of age, with an associated loss of about 20 years.
Additionally, the DALYs gained due to Chagas' prevention are spread over 20 years in
the past and roughly another 25 to 35 years into the future, thus the effects of the discount
factor (3% for the DALYs) are much more pronounced than in the case of kala-azar
where the majority of the deaths averted are attributable to the period of the project and
not in the distant future.
G. FUTURE OPERATIONS
Environmental and demographic conditions in the Northeast, i.e., poor household
and environmental sanitary conditions, and the strong migration in and out of the region,
will continue to favor the occurrence of communicable diseases which are endemic in the
area. State and municipal capacity to control such diseases has greatly improved, but is still
weak in many places. Some states and municipalities, such as Minas Gerais, Bahia,
Pemambuco, and Ceara, are now able to take more responsibility for communicable disease
control than before, but other states such as Alagoas will continue to need strong assistance
from the federal level, i.e., from the National Health Foundation. Bank support for a
follow-up communicable disease control operation is thus justifiable. Such a follow-up
operation will probably (a) have broader objectives (i.e., include the control of



12
communicable diseases which cause a heavier burden of death and disability, which may
vary by State, and allow for quick response to unexpected epidemics); (b) include demand-
driven components to finance state and municipal communicable disease control
subprojects; and (c) have an institutional development component to (i) strengthen the
capacity of weaker states and municipalities, and (ii) assist in restructuring the National
Health Foundation, from a federal vertical program organization toward a mostly
regulatory, monitoring and technical assistance agency.
More broadly, conditions for future operations in the health sector are good.
Political, economic, institutional, and managerial conditions have improved significantly,
and the country is much more capable of carrying out social programs with objectivity and
efficiency. With better-trained human resources and improved management capability
achieved through this project and other health-related Bank projects, future health
operations in Brazil should be implemented with fewer obstacles and in less time. Future
operations in the health sector, including those in the area of communicable disease control,
should include efforts towards the decentralization and municipalization of health care
activities through the SUS.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Through the experience gained during project implementation the following are the
key lessons learned:
(a)   Chagas' disease: (i) the severity of the disease seems to be associated with
reinfection. When the program manages to eliminate the Triatoma from the household, the
level of reinfection of patients decreases and the clinical course of the already infected
person is more benign; (ii) it is possible to interrupt vector transmission with rigorous
application of residual insecticides, on the basis of careful epidemiological stratification by
municipalities and by community; (iii) the preferred vector, Triatoma infestans, is strictly
domestic and does not become peridomiciliary; as a corollary, the vector can be eradicated
through house improvements and targeted application of insecticides;
(b)   Schistosomiasis: (i) early diagnosis and vigorous treatment can reduce the
severity of the disease;  (ii) it is very difficult to completely eliminate low-grade
transmission by means of diagnosis and treatment alone; eradication of the disease requires
long-term solutions, including better home and environmental sanitation; (iii) adding the
treatment of schistosomiasis to intestinal deworming in school health programs increases
the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the program;
(c)   Leishmaniasis:  (i) the severity of kala-azar is closely associated with
malnutrition; (ii) the new immunology-based, on the spot, diagnostic test for canine
leishmaniasis (TRALD) is a valid and efficient alternative to the traditional diagnostic
method; it allows immediate elimination of infected dogs which are the natural reservoir of



13
human disease; (iii) well-defined standard treatment protocols, training of health care
personnel and supply of appropriate antimonials can control the spread of a serious kala-
azar epidemic and reduce the severity and fatality of cases;
(d)   Management contracts, performance indicators, monitoring, supervision,
and evaluation are crucial to successful project implementation. There is also a need for
further decentralized management and accountability;
(e)   Competent and stable project management is necessary for continuity of the
project in a changing political environment. In the early 1990s political appointees in a
volatile political environment almost brought the project to a halt;
(f)    Government commitment is key for the project. States with more committed
governors were more successful than others. At the Federal level, strong support by the
Health Minister between 1993 and 1995 accelerated project implementation;
(g)   Training and other forms of institutional strengthening should be
implemented at least at the same pace as investments in civil works and equipment;
(h)   Flexible project design and interpretation of the Loan Agreement are
necessary so that projects can be adapted to new environmental and political realities which
may arise during the long period of project implementation;
(i)   The Unified Health System (SUS) can play an important role in endemic
disease control at two levels: first, by reimbursing health promotion and disease prevention
activities carried out by municipalities, states and the National Health Foundation; and
second, by providing early diagnosis and prompt treatment endemic diseases through the
public and health care provider network contracted with the SUS; and
(j)    UN specialized agencies such as PAHO/WHO and UNDP can offer
valuable technical assistance and facilitate project implementation in the areas of
procurement and contracting.






14
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial  Partial  Negligible   NotApplicable
Macro policies                  E li                                x
Sector policies                 x         a                        El
Financial objectives            O         O          O              x
Institutional development       x         El         Ol            El
Physical objectives              x        O          O             O
Poverty reduction               O          x         O             O
Gender issues                             l O        O              x
Other social objectives         O          x         O             E
Environmental objectives        O          x         O             O
Public sector management         x        Oi O               
Private sector development      E          l         O              x
B. Project Sustainability           Likely          Unlikelv        Uncertain
x               n               
C. Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficie
Identification                      n                   x                   g
Preparation assistance               x                  O                   O
Appraisal                           0                   x                   Oi
Supervision                          x                  Oi                  E]
D. Boffower Performance         Highly Satisfactory    SatisfacoI           Deficient
Preparation                         El                  x                   g
Implementation                       X after 93         a                   X before 93
Covenant compliance                  x                  O                   C
Operation                           n                   x                   0
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome   Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
x             x
Disease     Institutional                      0
control    development



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/                                                                Year of
Credit Title                             Purpose                       Approval    Status
Preceding operations:
Loan 2061-BR                  To improve the health status of Rond6nia's increasing  1981  Closed
Northwest Region Integrated   population with malaria control, extension of basic          6130/88
Development Program - Health   services, training of health workers and operational
research.
Loan 2448-BR                  To improve the Government's ability to address a    1984    Closed
National Health Policy Studies    variety of health needs through strengthening policy     12/31/89
formation.
Loan 2447-BR                  To improve the health status in five main target areas  1984    Closed
Sao Paulo Basic Health Care   and nine health districts in Greater Sao Paulo and           6/30/92
improve the cost-effectiveness of health services
delivery within Greater Sao Paulo.
Loan 2699-BR
NE Basic Health I             To improve the health status of 3.6 million small   1986    Closed
farmers and other poor people living in specific areas       12/31/95
of the states of Minas Gerais, Bahia, Rio Grande do
Norte, and Piaui.
Following operations:
Loan 3072-BR
Amazon Basin Malaria Control   To reduce malaria transmission in Amazonia and     1989    Closed
prevent its reintroduction to areas now under control.      6/30/96
Loan 3135-BR
NE Basic Health II            To strengthen basic health services in selected low-  1989    Closing
income areas of the Northeast and to reinforce              Date
implementation of sectoral reforms, including the           12/31/97
decentralization of financial resources and
administrative authority within the NE states.
Loan 3659-BR
AIDS & STD Control            To strengthen AIDS and STD prevention and services,    1993    Closing
and build up institutional capacity for AIDS and STD        Date
control at the Federal and State levels.                    6/30/98
Loan 4047-BR
Health Sector Reform          To improve the delivery of care under the Unified   1996    Closing
Health System (SUS), which is the sole source of            Date
publicly subsidized care for the poor.                      12/31/00



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle         Date Planned                Actual Date
Identification                      April 1985                 April 1985
Preparation                          June 1986                  June 1986
Appraisal                            June 1987                  June 1987
Negotiations                      November 1987              November 1987
Board Presentation                 February 1988               March 1988
Signing                             April 1988                  June 1988
Effectiveness                     September 1988             December 1988
Midterm Review                                                  May 1993
Project Completion                   June 1993               December 1995
Loan Closing                       December 1993                 June 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY           88    89    90    91    92        93      94    95    96
Appraisal Estimate   8.0   24.5  50.0  76.0  98.0   109.0    --    --    --
Actual               --   8.0   11.5  24.8  33.4   37.0   48.9  67.0  77.9
Actual as % of             33    23    33    34        34      60'   82    95'
Estimate 
l US$27 million was canceled from the original loan amount of US$109 million; the percentage therefore was based
on the revised loan amount of US$82 million.



17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators                  Actual Date Accomplished
PMU organization and staffing       September 1988
Accounting systems and procedures   A substantial review of the financial
management, accounting and audit
aspects of the project was carried out in
August 1989.
Annual action plan                  First plan received in December 1988
Financial Project Monitoring Manual    March 1989
Project Implementation Manual       June 1989
Annual progress report              First report received in March 1990
Midterm review of the project       May 1993
Scientific meeting to discuss and   December 1995
disseminate results of operational
research funded under the project.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key Operating Indicators in SAR                          Estimated        Actual
1 . Average number of houses sprayed/trip                    6 to 15         6 to 15
2. Daily average of houses sprayed/guard                      2 to 5         2 to 5
3. Daily average of stool tests processed/laboratory technician  200          200
4. Daily average of treatments administered/guard            15 to 30        15 to 30
5. Average number of dogs tested/trip                        30 to 60       30 to 60
6. Daily average of household visits/guard                   15 to 30        15 to 30
7. Monthly average of dogs eliminated/No. tested positive      90%            90%
8. Average cost per case diagnosed                             NA             NA
9. Average cost per case treated                               NA             NA
10. Average cost per death averted                             NA          US$7,611
11. Average cost per DALY saved                                NA           US$271



19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study
1. Comparative study of the use of Glucantime, Pentamidine and Aminosidine
in the treatment of primary skin lesions caused by Leishmania braziliensis.
Philip Marsden. Tropical Medicine Unit, Universtity of Brasiilia
2. Evaluation of the Direct Aglutination Test for the serologic diagnosis of
visceral leishmaniasis in the State of Para. Fernando T. Silveira. Instituto
Evandro Chagas/National Health Foundation
3. Use of imumologic parameters for the evaluation of schistosomiasis and
Chagas' disease surveillance and control programs. Sumie H. Shimizu. Sao
Paulo Institute of Tropical Medicine.
4. Evaluation of the Direct Aglutination Test for the serologic diagnosis of
visceral leishmaniosis in the State of Ceara. Hermenio Lima Filho. Federal
Unity of Ceara.
5. Impact of rapid reservoir elimination in the reduction of the prevalence of
canine kala-azar in the Rio Curu Valley. Marcus D.M. Braga. Tropical Medicine
Unit/Federal University of Ceara.
6. Chagas' disease morbidity and potential control in two areas in NE Brazil.
Jose R. Coura. Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz.
7. American Tegumentar Leishmaniasis in the State of Maranhao. Clinical and
epidemiologic characteristics. Comparison between the systemic and lesional use
of antimonial drugs in the treatment of skin lesions. Jackson M. L. Costa.
Federal Universtity of Maranhio Medical School.
8. Eficacy of Chagas' Disease Control. Case-control study. Carlos M. F.
Antunes and Mariangela Carneiro. Federal University of Minas Gerais
9. Chagas' Disease hospital morbidity in Brazil. Susete B. Franca. Community
Medicine and Nutrition Unit, NESCON, Federal University of Minas Gerais.
IO1. Schistosomiasis morbidity in Queixadinha, Cari, Minas Gerais. Federal
1University of Minas Gerais Medical School
I11. Medical care for Chagas' disease patients in the Unified Health System.
Proposal for evaluation. Eliane D. Gontijo. Federal University of Minas Gerais.
12. Integrated research and development of American Tegumentar
Leishmaniasis in the State of Sao Paulo. Jose E. Tolenzano. Adolfo Lutz
Institute. Sao Paulo State Health Secretariat
13. Leishmania donovani FML. A new tool for the diagnosis and control of
blood transfusions and for the development of vaccines against kala-azar.
Clarissa B.P. de Souza. Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.
14. Evaluation of recombinant leishmania proteins for the development of
vaccines and diagnosis of kala-azar. Ronaldo A. do Amaral. Federal University
of Rio Grande do Norte.



20
15. Clinical and epidemiological study of schistosomiasis in irrigation areas in
NE Brazil. Amaury D. Coutinho. Funda,ao Oswaldo Cruz/Pemambuco.
16. Production of fluorescein marked antibodies for the imunofluorescence-
based diagnosis of kala-azar. Sinval P. Brandao. Funda,cao Oswaldo
Cruz/Pernambuco
17. Ecology of lesihmaniasis vector sandlies in Bahia State. Italo Sherlock.
Funda,ao Oswaldo Cruz/Bahia
18. Epidemiology of kala-azar in Novo Mundo, Piaui. Carlos H. Neri Costa.
Federal Universtity of Piaui.
19. Epidemiology of acute Chagas' disease cases in the Sao Luis Island,
Maranhao. Triatoma rubrofasciata as the probable vector. Sebastiao A. S.
Valente. National Health Foundation/Maranhao.
20. Use of PCR in the evaluation of the impact of specific treatment for
Tripanosoma cruzi. Mariane M. A. Stefani. Federal University of Goias.
21 Vaccination against visceral leishmaniasis and against muco-cutaneous
canine leishmaniasis with semi-defined antigen from Leishmania braziliensis.
Mauro Marzochi. Funda,ao Oswaldo Cruz.
22. Evaluation of DOT-ELISA recombinant test for the laboratorial diagnosis of
canine kala-azar. Ronaldo Amaral. Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte.



21
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)               Actual (US$M)
Item                 Local      Foreign     Total      Local      Foreign      Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs       Costs
I. Control/Prevention of          83.0       73.5       156.5      64.6        60.6        125.2
Transmission
II. Community Mobilization         7.7         2.9        10.6       3.3         2.8         6.1
III. Operational Research           1.3        .0.2        1.5        0.9        0 3          1.2
IV. Institutional Development      20.2         3.6       23.8       10.8       13.3        24.1
V. Control & Prevention of         6.1         1.6        7.7       2.4         5.0          7.4
AIDS
TOTAL BASE COST                   118.3       81.8       200.1      82.0        82.0        164.0
Physical Contingencies              6.5         4.7       11.2        -           -           -
Price Contingencies                 3.8         2.9        6.7        -           -           -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            128.62       89.4      218.0       82.0       82.0        164.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)                Actual (US$M) 
Local     Foreign       Total       Local       Foreign     Total
Federal Government            109.0         --        109.0        82.0                    82.0
IBRD                           19.6       89.4        109.0                    82.0        82.0
TOTAL                       128.6       89.4        218.0        82.0        82.0       164.0
2 Excludes taxes of US$9.4 million equivalent.



22
Table 9a: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary. 1988-1996
Endemic Disease Control Costs                      Program               Project
Chagas'Disease                                  US$516.7 million       US$23 million
Schistosomiasis                                 US$140.2 million    US$65.3 million
Leishmaniasis                                    US$95.2 million    US$52.5 million
Total                                                               US$140.8 million
Endemic Disease Control Effectiveness
Chagas' Disease
No of cases prevented                                    277,000               12,500
No of deaths prevented                                     85,000               3,800
No of DALYs saved                                      1.6 million             72,900
Schistosomiasis
No of cases prevented
No of deaths prevented                                      7,300               3,400
No of DALYs saved                                         143,000              67,000
Leishmaniasis (kala-azar only)
No of cases prevented                                       1,400                 770
No of deaths prevented                                     20,500              11,300
No of DALYs saved                                        690,000              380,000
Total No. of deaths saved                                 112,800              18,500
Total No. of DALYs saved                                2,433,000             519,900
Endemic Disease Control Cost-effectiveness
Chagas'disease                                           US$315              US$315
Schistosomiasis                                          US$980               US$980
Leishmaniasis (kala-azar only)                           US$139               US$139
Average cost/DALY saved                                                       US$558
Note:  Chagas' Disease Control Program analysis covers 1975 to 1995.
Schistosomiasis and Leishmaniasis Control Program analysis covers 1988 to 1996.
The cost figures are all converted into 1996 U.S. Dollars. A three percent
discount rate was applied for each year into the past and, in the case of benefits, into the
future. Effectiveness was measured in terms of burden of disease prevented, in disability
adjusted life years -- DALYs.
The impact of the project is assumed to be proportional to part of the program
investment financed under the project. The estimate is conservative, as the project added
value to the traditional ongoing program, by bringing in many of the program innovations,
on both the technical and the managerial sides.



23
The impact of the Leishmaniasis control subcomponent counts only the benefits
associated with reducing incidence and mortality of kala-azar. It does not account for the
possible impact of the project on cutaneous leishmaniosis, nor does it include the benefits
accrued from adding the rabies control to the subcomponent.
Table 9 b: Cost-benefit Analysis Summary. 1988-1996
(US$ million)
Investment/Cost                                      Program                 Project
Chagas' disease
Total investment                                                 517                      23
Present value                                                     503                     16
Schistosomiasis
Total investment                                                  141                     65
Present Value                                                     100                     47
Leishmaniasis
Total investment                                                   95                     53
Present value                                                      66                     36
Total Project Investment                                          753                    141
Total Project Present Value                                       668                     99
Benefits
Chagas ' disease
Direct cost savings                                               828                     37
Indirect cost savings                                           2119                      82
Benefits, present value                                          1557                     66
Net benefit, present value, (NPV)                                1054                     50
Schistosomiasis
Direct cost savings                                                12                      6
Indirect cost savings                                             187                     87
Benefits, present value                                           139                     65
Net benefit, present value, (NPV)                                  39                     18
Leishmaniasis
Direct cost savings                                               472                    260
Indirect cost savings                                             897                    494
Benefits, present value                                           615                    339
Net benefit, present value, (NPV)                                 550                    302
Total Project Benefits
Direct cost savings                                               839                     20
Indirect cost savings                                           3203                     663
Benefits, present value                                         2310                     469
Net benefit, present value, (NPV)                                1642                    371
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR)                            89                    535
The estimated quantitative benefits generated from the project are based on the
observed reduction in morbidity and mortality in Brazil over the period 1988 to 1996.
The estimated reductions over the period of evaluation were converted into quantitative
benefits in terms of a reduction in the demand for health services and a reduction in the
burden of disease. The estimates for the reduction in the demand for health care services



24
are evaluated based on the observed estimates of demand for ambulatory and hospital
level services, in terms of frequency of utilization and cost per incident. Reductions in
the burden of disease are based on an analysis of the total Disability Adjusted Life Years
(DALYs) saved due to the reduction in morbidity and mortality. The reduction in the
burden of disease is then translated into economic benefits by attaching the value of the
average minimum yearly salary to each DALY, and discounting the stream of benefits
using a discount rate of eight percent (8%).
There are two reasons for selecting an 8% discount rate, a little lower than would
be appropriate for a private investment project. First, the highly redistributional nature of
the project, demonstrated by a high proportion of the target population in the lowest tiers
of the income distribution. Second, the public goods nature of the investment provides
justification for a discount rate different from the discount rate traditionally assumed for
investments where the output is a private consumption good.
In order to determine the total Net Present Value of the project, and to calculate
the observed rate of return, the benefits are then weighed against the investment costs of
the project, both during the period 1988-1996 and, in the case of Chagas', over the period
1975 to 1996.
The analysis assumes a distribution of the estimated benefits between the program
and the NE Endemic Disease Control Project that is roughly proportional to the share of
expenditure attributable to the project relative to the overall program, the distribution of
direct and indirect benefits over the period of evaluation.
Total project benefits were determined by converting the total DALYs saved and
the reduction in health care services utilization into monetary terms. The cost estimates
used to determine monetary benefits related to reductions in the utilization undoubtedly
underestimate the total economic value of the project given the fact that the estimates
consider only the direct costs to the health care system. Indirect costs, such as savings in
time and transport costs, time costs for family members who look after the patient, and
time and money costs of preventive action taken by households and the community are
not considered in the present analysis due to a lack of data.
The analysis of the Chagas' disease program spans a period of 21 years, from
1975 to 1996, due to the chronic nature of the disease and the protracted period of
evolution. The respective project benefits and costs are prorated for the years of project
implementation.



25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
L.A.    Covenant            Fulfillment   Fulfillment
Section    Type     Status      Date         Date         Description of Covenant        Comments
3.01(a)      5        C                                Carry out project through    Complied with.
SUCAM/NHF with due
diligence and efficiency.
3.01 (b)     10        C                               Write Convenio with States.  Complied with.
Write Termo Aditivo to the
Convenio with FIOCRUZ
regarding the research
component. Write Termo
Aditivo to Convenio with
PAHO.
3.01c/d     10        C                                Not assign, amend, abrogate, or  Complied with.
waive convenio without Bank
authorization.
3.01(e)      5        C                                Hire staff required for project    Complied with.
execution, directly or through
States or Municipalities.
3.01(f)     5         C                               Ensure that project manager is   Complied with.
acceptable to the Bank.
3.02       10        C                               Procurement and hiring of    Complied with.
consultants according to Bank
procedures.
3.03       10        C                               Complete a KAP survey        Complied with.
regarding endemic diseases in
the target States.
4.01(b)      I        C                                Have records and accounts for   Complied with.
each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank.



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
[                                        N.A.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (SW, Actual)
Stage                                       FY
Tota
86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93   94   95   96   97    1
Preparation       9.0  80.   4.2                                                      93.5
3
Appraisal                    12.7                                                      12.7
Negotiations                  7.3                                                       7.3
Supervision                   2.6  14.7  18.5  13.0  14.0       9.6  13.6  7.2        93.2
Mid-Term Review                                           16.                          16.7
I'TOTAL          T9;.   8       2   16'8 t .A'T*' W  7  _tA *1_



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performnance Rating'
*I
Days in   Specialized
Stage of Project Cycle   Month/    No. of      Field     Staff Skills    Impl.      Devt.
Year    Persons               Represented      Status     Objs.    Types of Problems
Identification            3/85         4         12         PH, 0
Preparation               6/86         2         14          PH
9/86        7         12        PH, O, L
12/86       4          12       PH, P, F,
3/87        7         18      PH, P, M, 0,
l                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
Appraisal                 6/87         4          8      PH, P, 0, L,
PLW**                     4/88         5          6      PH, P, L, D,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   F   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __F
Supervision:
I              8/88         1          5          PH             1          1
II              2/89        1          17          PH            1
III             8/89        2          12        PH, IC           I          1
8/89        1          7           F
IV              3/90         1         12        PH, TD           I          I
V              10/90        2          11        PH, E           2          1              M, F
VI              4/91         1         14          PH            2           1              M
VII             10/91        1         12          PH             2          1               M
VIII             5/92        2          14          PH            3          1              M, L
IX              12/92       2          12          PH            2          2            M, PR, F
X               5/93        4          11        PH, ED          2          2             M, PR
(Mid-Term Review)
XI              12/93        2         14        PH, ED           3         2          L, M, F, PR,
XII              7/94        3         12      PH, MS, ED         S          S               F
XIII             2/95        3          12     PH, ED, MS         S          S             F, PR
IX              4/96         1         7           PH            HS         HS
Completion                                                      I           I_I_                             I
* D = Disbursement specialist; E = economist; ED = endemic disease specialist;
F = financial analyst; IC = IEC specialist; L = legal; M = management specialist; MS = malaria specialist;
0 = operations specialist; P = procurement specialist; PH = public health specialist; TD = tropical diseases
specialist.
** PLW = Project Launch Workshop
'Ratings: I/HS = minor problems 2/S = moderate problems; 3 = serious problems.
2Types of Problems: L = legal; M = management performance; F = availability of finds; PR = procurement.



28
Table 14: Documents in Project File
1. Projeto de Controle de Doencas Endemicas no Nordeste -- PCDEN. Acordo de
Emprestimo No 2931. Borrower/Government project completion report
2. AnAlise de Custo-Efetividade do Componente de Doenca de Chagas no PCDEN, by
Dariush Akhavan, November 1996. Cost-effectiveness analysis of Chagas' Disease
component.
3. AnAlise de Custo-Efetividade do Componente de Esquistosomose no PCDEN, by
Dariush Akhavan, November 1996. Cost-effectiveness analysis of schistosomiasis
component.
4. Analise de Custo-Efetividade do Componente de Leishmaniose no PCDEN, by
Dariush Akhavan, November 1996. Cost-effectiveness analysis of leishmaniasis
component.
5. Cost-benefit Analysis of the Brazil Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project, by
James Cercone, May 1997.
6. Borrower's comments on the implementation completion report.



I



IBRD 21334
(VENEZUELA                     *o    *             (FRENCH                                        BR       4C
I  SSURINAME\GUIANAr                                             BRAZIL
C O L O M B I A                            Bo?1I . EDaVI5SS  /ON             J   fL                 AMAZON BASIN MALARIA CONTROL PROJECT
MALARIA CONTROL PROGRAM
, A=T A N t/C
J f- P                       A4-- W0.A<N I f/< C;4AQ=                                  -   RiORA 7' Z AEDONORTE
.....   resinCEARA  /RO              EDNRT
\  PARAIBoA      o Pessoa
P E R U   >  < <    gG0W 4                                  g                     ~~~~~~~B eA H I A  :tSERGIPE
-- \ t? A, _ | w ~~~~~~~~~~~BRASIUAL@% .. 
\     < ~B O L I VIA                         t        2                 Goionio    ?            5         oow 2 
t   '  ~~~~~~~~~~9 t g~~~~~~Ca p                                                       Tn6fibo Otoni  
r oaoo AU I          ancndl
g  \                r _ _ > (!Z)MATO GROSSO~ -    U.-,OrOINAS   G ERA1S1.                              C.1
- C i /'; C   \  \                              g            CompoGrondee                           * Belo    /ESPIRITO SANTO
)                                                                                           ii aOSL   dJNb  Rbo> Hrizonte.-.   OThbworao  ,rjiNric
-20*                                                                                                                             ~< -  *,o SAOA; i   itoFr,o   F/ANTCpmo 
A N  p    tz           \         ~\PAR AGUAY   \                    ,          Canpins0  t. D:o E   JANEIRO                    fl  C L  4  N
(CHILE?                          \.          noSd 5o PaIo.                                  '~  RiodeJaneiro
8  /                                                                          Santo . P>RANA   tOA
(.                                    ;t             )_  s Parnwago.9==:  Attack Phonse Priority I
- _   )  j                             {[          2   2_j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANTA  CATARINA                           Attack Pirate Priority 11
SOUTH3--  \  r                             ,                   > Frionoilis                      r      |~~~~~~taja  Under Sorceillonce
dt~~~~~~~~~~'   B    N  T  IcL KI A   R                                            . ~1 A                            ,9/ Vcoio Tba o*Fnsoesiduol Tronstniucion
1Bl
<*>,asl,   / r'a,n.cn.n.,ceooc/                           ,RIO GRANDE DO SUL4                                         '9   Notional Capital
iona~~~cnc.n,anc.nin.                             -/                                    0   State Capitol.s ERGIP
AME'RICA -      ~c-o^>                                |     \on          p t Alegret 7Trae.ondonlas                                     Salvador
(                  .aen.F.nrc9l F on                           1>-  2a' FP       *oy KItOME IERi O t00 200 300 400 S200ae3anare
_l'CrANv/    l                                rnon PJsoo)  dotas0>J   'Legal Amoconio" Boundory
e  ,  OOF2 l  X               0       f             *\    i            MIIES 0    W0~~~~~~~~~~~~6    6    2Io  300  *--International Bsoundaries
k 0 t h FC C % 2 U R U G U           AY ls -Riers 0
;~~~~ ~                   0  L IO.D O   V\ I Ao4                                                                                                 0
,__.                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAr.IUAn 191/9






IBRD 20434
B R A Z I L
NORTHEAST ENDEMIC DISEASES CONTROL PROJECT
       State Capitals                                                    Northeast Region Boundary
       National Capitol                                       --         State Boundaries
-  --    International Boundaries
50      ,          4                   40
|     VENEZUELA                                                                      0elemANA  -Im                         PROGRAM  FOR
'    (       /FECGUYANA   GUIANA                                                  aoLuis          LEISHMANIASIS CONTROL
1t   -L   t'    c tFRENCH GUIANA/.   :t 
COLOMBIA  C      '       QSURINAME/ (Fr.)                                                                      'A            Fortaleza
0~               MARANHA *<    ~' C           A %R    R RARNO    N    I
Area of Maps         P                                                  NOR,      t    ess
NORTHEAST                    J /           -
B     R      A      Z      I    L                    ij7 j 4 ~                                                               0
PERU   <                                            REGION                                      /       0 G AArocu
U1    Bras il-   GOIAS                                                 -Solvodor
k BOLIVIA .(7
Brasilia                                                          15
f    PARAGUAY                                                                      >\,t
(t   >    87                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Goi6nia(     g 2  Xt 
)          P A % U A Y L A                                       G oi6 ni                                             P ro ject    A re a s ;
/                         T0*OOflOflOPOfldr   .MINAS   GERAIS  ESPIRITO                         r   7
re.~~~o'..uoo,.~~~~                       SANTO20
'nanoue .oooa,osdo.e.  20  Bela'-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
ARGENTINA                                 o'inoSOTfctddB0w                          Beoio3 I         ViAri2
\   zilNlU-l\AV         FtY  hll<WIF                      I    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Horezonte   Vit6ria
CHILE                 'URUGA \ZrvIAn                                                                   ii
(                                              v:zolrroWz.rr:       SAO PAULO j               .JRIO DE    0,    ,            300 MILES
l  JANEIRO
;, vUlVlN Vw--",Sao Paulo      Rio oe           0             400 KILOMETERS
00              -a    4 t5     Janeiro  400                350
50                450                 40         '                          50b     '    .    45
Bel6m      r-                       PROGRAM  FOR                            @lBelI6n                                PROGRAM  FOR
Sao Luis    SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL                                         5  is                CHAGAS CONTROL
PF at)l-zoFrtaleza
-50               AANA                                                   50                     K                                 -5~
MARAIM14A                                                        H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M4ANIIp ~ CEAgA                50 RAD
PARA   .'             era*s.              BEAN00 Nata5                                             TerosR R                     Natal
PARA   0                   _ ;o                                   Psw        PARA   8            t                           ^   
>t  j~~~~~~~~'u~Joao Pessoa                                                                    Joaox   Pessoa
IPIAI       Fe        cifRec,fe                                    9        J    U       IJN$)t%    Recife
ca'u                                                                       Aroca'u SE  3X.  GOAS  0
I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A-I
GOIAS                           )j                                           GOIAS '  aa             ' OSalvador
Brasilia                                                          15         Broslia                                                         15t
Go,6n,onii3    )        /                        Project Areas;             Goianiat                                          Project Areas:
.0/X //a/ A                             UndeConlf                           F7                                       Under Control
IITO              New Control Activities             MNAS  GERAIS             SIE RITO        New Control Activities
100  --  /         //         ~~~~~~~~~~~ 20tr                                                  "t0 (/ Vit6ria20
SAO PAULO                   RODE        0               300 MILES            SAO PAULO                  'RIRO DE             .       300 MILES
4  ,   S  0  400 KILOMETERS
SaoPal                                    Paulo           Rio de                                 R.d
,,           (3    45  Janeiro                            315- 35                              J'    neiro        400                  350
JULY 1987









IMAGING
Report No.:        16694
Type:     ICR



