Page  1
September 26, 1989
Dr. Mailson Ferreira da Nobrega
Minister of Finance
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
                  Re:   Loan 2931-BR Proposed Amendments
Your Excellency:
The Government of Brazil through SUCAM, the executing agency for the Northeast 
Endemic Disease Control Project, has requested an amendment to Loan No. 2931-BR in 
order to allow for disbursements
against maintenance of facilities and equipment, and for acquisition of pesticides for 
Chagas' vector control activities included in the project.
In August, 1989, SUCAM discussed with a Bank supervision mission the rationale 
for the proposed amendments, which the Bank has accepted.
In line with the Government's request, we hereby propose the following 
amendments to the Loan 2931-BR:
The definition of "Incremental Operating Costs" in Section 2(d), of Schedule 1, 
will be expanded to read as follows:
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the following costs 
which may be 
incurred for the purposes of the project (1) wages for 
Higher-level staff hired by SUCAM or a 
State, after December 31, 1987, to do 
field work; (ii) supervision expenses, including per-diem 
and transport; (iii) fuel, 
buildings, equipment, and vehicle maintenance expenses; and (iv) other 
operating 
costs specifically agreed upon between the Bank an SUCAM.
Part A.5, of Schedule 2 will be expanded to include acquisition and utilization 
of appropriate amounts of other pesticides for vector control.  Thus, it will read as 
follows:
Acquisition and utilization of about 65,250 kilograms of Niclosamide; 
2,200,000 kilograms 
of DDT 75% concentrate and 123,000 kilograms of DDT 10O% 
concentrate; 18,000 capsules and 86,000 
bottles (240 cubic centimeters each) of 
oxamniquine or, alternatively, an appropriate amount of 
praziquantel; and 
appropriate amounts of pesticides for vector control of Chagas' disease, and 
other diseases if so agreed between the Bank and SUCAM. 
These amendments will be effective as of the date of this letter when duly 
signed by you.  Therefore, please sign, date and return to us this letter as soon as 
possible.  A signed original
copy of this letter will be sent to the Procurador Geral da Fazenda, Ilmo. Sr. Cid 
Heraclito Queiroz.
Sincerely yours,
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Director
Country Department I (Brazil)
Latin America & Caribbean Region
Page  2
Confirmed:
Ministerio da Fazenda
By: /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date: January 12, 1990
