Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2931 BR
(Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 17, 1988
 LOAN NUMBER 2931 BR
 LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1988, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Borrower; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CESA" means the local expenditures special account to be opened pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"FESA" means the foreign exchange expenditures special account to  be 
opened pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
"Account Bank" means Central Bank in respect of CESA and the Bank 
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement in respect of FESA;
(d)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil;
 
(e)
"Cruzado" means the currency unit of the Borrower;
 
(f)
"SES" means Secretaria de Estado de Saude, the State Secretariats of 
Health;
(g)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(h)
"SUCAM" means the Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica,  the 
Ministry's Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns, in charge, with  financial and 
administrative autonomy, of the direct execution of activities related to the 
erradication and control of endemic diseases, as established by the Borrower's Decrees 
No. 66,623, dated May 22, 1970, and No. 79,056, dated December 30, 1976, and governed 
by the By-Laws (as hereinafter defined); unless the context otherwise requires the 
term "SUCAM" shall be used in this Agreement to mean SUCAM, a Superintendency within 
the Ministry that will act as agency of the Borrower for carrying out the Project 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(i)
"PAHO" means Pan American Health Organization;
 
(j)
"FIOCRUZ" means Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, an agency of the Borrower, 
governed by its Estatuto approved by the Borrower's Decree No. 77,481, dated April 23, 
1976;
(k)
"By-Laws" means the internal regulations of SUCAM as set forth in the 
Borrower's Portaria No. 161/BSB/76, as modified by the Borrower's  Portarias No. 
221/BSB/82, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on  September 14, 1982, No. 
229, published in such Gazette on September 23,  1982, No. 265, published in such 
Gazette on October 29, 1982, No. 421, published in such Gazette on August 27, 1987 and 
No. 407, dated September 4, 1986;
(l)
"State" means the States of Maranhao, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Piaui, 
Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia or Minas Gerais, each  of them a 
political subdivision of the Borrower;
(m)
"SUDS" means Sistema Unificado Descentralizado de Saude and "SUDS  
Agreement" means an agreement among the Borrower's Ministry of Social  Security and 
Assistance, the Borrower's National Institute for Medical Assistance and Social 
Security, the Ministry, the Borrower's Ministry of  Education, and a State through its 
SES, entered into for the purpose of putting the SUDS into effect in such State;
(n)
"State Convenio" means each Termo Aditivo to the corresponding SUDS 
Agreement, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into  between the Borrower 
and  a State, acting through its SES, pursuant to  Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement 
for purposes of, inter alia, establishing the terms for the participation of that 
State in the Project;
Page  3
(o)
"FIOCRUZ Convenio" means the agreement between SUCAM and FIOCRUZ, for 
purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, dated October 27, 1987;
(p)
"PAHO Convenio" means the agreement between SUCAM and PAHO, for purposes 
of hiring consultants and Higher level staff necessary for the carrying out of the 
Project, dated September 28, 1987;
(q)
"Project Area" means an area comprising about 1,018 municipalities   
infested by vectors in the States and "Municipality" means each of such 
municipalities;
(r)
"Higher level staff" means professionals and technicians;
 
(s)
"Other staff" means staff other than staff referred in (r) above, 
including guardas and inspetores de endemias; and
(t)
"Project Manager" means the head of the Coordenadoria de Gerencia de 
Projetos established in SUCAM by Portaria No. 421 referred to in (k) above.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred nine million dollars ($109,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in its Central Bank an account in dollars on terms and   conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements out of this  account (hereinafter called CESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in Cruzados incurred in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be 
financed by the Bank pursuant to
paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in a bank, acceptable to the Central Bank and the Bank, an account in dollars 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Disbursements out of this account 
(hereinafter called FESA) shall be made  exclusively to meet expenditures in 
currencies other than Cruzados incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required to carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, CESA and FESA shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The  Borrower, through 
the Central Bank and SUCAM, respectively, shall furnish  to the Bank each month 
certified statements of CESA and FESA.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.  
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate  per annum for each 
Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per  annum above the Cost of 
Qualified Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such 
Page  4
Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of Health of the Borrower or the person or  persons 
designated by him are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, through the Ministry  acting through SUCAM, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity  with appropriate administrative, financial 
and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
As part of the foregoing, the Borrower, through SUCAM, shall enter: (A) 
into State Convenios with each of the States, such State Convenios to contain, inter 
alia, provisions for: (i) the adherence of the  respective State to the objectives and 
description of the Project, and to  the SUDS; (ii) the commitment of providing such 
space for laboratories as shall be necessary to install adequately all equipment 
specified in such State Convenio to be acquired for the purposes of its operation by 
such State and of Part A.1 of the Project; and (iii) the terms and conditions for the 
taking over by the respective State of the activities of diagnosis, therapy and 
surveillance presently being carried on by SUCAM; and (B) not  later than December 31, 
1988, into Termos Aditivos to the FIOCRUZ Convenio   and the PAHO Convenio, 
satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to the terms and conditions of said Convenios.
(c)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not  assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any of the State Convenios or any  provision thereof 
regarding the description or execution of the Project or  any obligation of the 
Borrower set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall, through SUCAM, exercise all its rights under the 
FIOCRUZ Convenio and the PAHO Convenio, and any Termo Aditivo to either  one, and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
any of such Convenios or Termo Aditivo, or any provision  thereof regarding the 
description or execution of the Project or any obligation of the Borrower set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement.
(e)
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, through SUCAM, shall take all necessary measures to:
Page  5
(i)
enable SUCAM to hire a substantial number of the staff required 
for the Project and 
to do it with due regard to their 
qualifications and experience so as to ensure 
adequate Project 
execution;
(ii)
obtain from each State, under the corresponding State Convenio, or 
each 
Municipality, under separate agreements to be entered 
between SUCAM and such 
Municipality, the commitment thereof to 
hire, if warranted, the remainder of the 
other staff required 
to perform services in respect of the Project in each such 
State 
or Municipality which has not been hired by SUCAM or the State in question, 
as the case may be; and
(iii)
ensure that in the case Other staff is hired in accordance with 
(ii) above by a 
State or a Municipality, SUCAM shall reimburse 
the State or Municipality in 
question from the proceeds of the 
Loan.
(f)
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Manager is at all times a 
person whose qualifications and experience are adequate for purposes of the Project, 
and shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to express its views on the 
qualifications and experience of any candidate for said position.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than July 31, 1988, complete, under 
terms of reference agreed between SUCAM and the Bank, a  KAP  (knowledge, attitudes 
and practices) survey, including socio-economic data, on endemic disease control in 
the Project Area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through SUCAM, shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of  the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the CESA and FESA for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the CESA and 
FESA; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
SUCAM, shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions,  the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that, if  any of the 
events specified in the following paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) shall have occurred and 
be continuing, the suspension of the Borrower's  right to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account may be limited to  withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures related 
to the State or  States affected:
(a)
any of the States shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective State Convenio;
(b)
a SUDS Agreement shall have terminated or any party thereto shall have 
failed to comply with its obligations under the agreement in question and such failure 
will, in the Bank's opinion and without alternative  arrangements satisfactory to the 
Bank having been made, materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the  Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable  
that any of the States will be able to perform its  obligations under its respective 
State Convenio; and
(d)
the By-Laws shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the Bank's opinion, the carrying 
out of the Project without alternative arrangements  satisfactory to the Bank having 
been made.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a), (b) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional  conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the Borrower shall have entered into State Convenios with either: 
Page  7
(i) the SES of States covering 50% of the aggregate area of all States, or (ii) the 
SES of States with an aggregate population of not less than 16,000,000, or (iii) the 
SES of any 5 States; and
(c)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or 
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the 
Project and to enable the Borrower and each of the States taken into account for the 
fulfillment of the condition under  Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement to perform 
their respective obligations pursuant to this Agreement or to the corresponding State 
Convenio, as the case may be, together will all necessary powers and rights in 
connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the FIOCRUZ Convenio and the PAHO Convenio have been duly authorized 
or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in 
accordance with their terms;
(c)
that each of the State Convenios taken into account for purposes of 
fulfillment of the condition under Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and is legally  binding upon such 
parties in accordance with its terms; and
(d)
that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given 
by the Borrower, each of the States taken into account for purposes  of fulfillment of 
the condition under Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, their political subdivisions 
or agencies, or by any agency thereof or otherwise to be performed or given in order 
to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and each such 
State to perform their respective obligations pursuant to this Agreement and to the 
corresponding State Convenio, together with all necessary powers and rights in 
connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 6.03. The date of September 20, 1988 is hereby specified for  the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco 5
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
0611506 MFAZ BR
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Ministro da Saude
Ministerio da Saude
Page  8
Esplanada dos Ministerios,
Bloco 11, 5o Andar
70058 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINSAUDE
0611752 MS BR
Brasilia, D.F.
Superintendente
SUCAM
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco 11, Anexo, 3o Andar
70058 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
SUCAM
0611603 MS BR
Brasilia, D.F.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Adrienne Nogueira Batista
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
Page  9
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works,                6,000,000      50%
     including
     architectural
     fees
(2)  Equipment and               8,500,000
     furniture:
     (a)  internationally                       100% of foreign
          procured                              expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
     (b)  domestically                          50% of local
          procured                              expenditures
(3)  Chemical supplies          28,500,000
     and drugs:
     (a)  internationally                       100% of foreign
          procured                              expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
     (b)  domestically                          50% of local
          procured                              expenditures
(4)  Training,                   6,000,000       100% of foreign
     consultant                                  expenditures for
     services,                                   services of
     and mass                                    consultants not
     media acti-                                 residing in the
     vities and                                  territory of the
     services under                              Borrower and 50%
     Part B.3 of                                 of local expen-
     the Project                                 ditures for
                                                 services of
                                                 other consul-
                                                 tants and for
                                                 other items
                                                 included in
                                                 Category (4)
(5)  Wages for                  27,000,000       60% until with-
     Additional                                  drawal appli-
     Other                                       cations under
     staff                                       this Category
                                                 (the Applica-
                                                 tions) have
                                                 reached the
                                                 aggregate of
                                                 $5,000,000;
                                                 thereafter,
                                                 50% until the
                                                 Applications
                                                 have reached the
                                                 aggregate of
                                                 $11,000,000;
Page  10
                                                 thereafter,
                                                 40% until the
                                                 Applications
                                                 have reached
                                                 the aggregate
                                                 of $17,000,000;
                                                 thereafter,
                                                 30% until the
                                                 Applications
                                                 have reached the
                                                 aggregate of
                                                 $22,500,000; and
                                                 25% thereafter
(6)  Incremental                13,000,000       41%
     operating
     costs
(7)  Unallocated                20,000,000
          TOTAL                109,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Additional Other staff" means Other staff hired after  December 
31, 1987 by SUCAM or a State or a Municipality, as the case may be,  for the purposes 
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(d)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means: (i) wages for Higher-level 
staff hired by SUCAM or a State, after December 31, 1987, to do  field work; (ii) 
supervision expenses, including per-diem and transport;  and (iii) fuel and vehicle 
maintenance expenses, all for purposes of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for  expenditures before that date 
but after February 1, 1987; and
(b)
expenditures on account of equipment under Part A.1 of the Project for 
any State other than a State taken into account for the fulfillment of  the condition 
under Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, unless: (i) the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank that the Borrower and  the State in question have executed 
and delivered the corresponding State Convenio, and (ii) all necessary acts, consents 
and approvals to be performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or 
agencies, by any agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to 
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the  State in 
question to perform their respective obligations pursuant to this  Agreement or to the 
corresponding State Convenio, as the case may be, together with all necessary powers 
and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objective of the Project is to reduce the prevalence of three  endemic 
diseases (Chagas disease, schistosomiasis and leishmaniasis) in the  Project Area and 
the intensity of human infection in the population at risk in such Area to minimum 
Page  11
levels where only epidemiological surveillance  activities are needed to keep these 
diseases under control. A second   objective is the strenghtening of SUCAM's 
capabilities and efficiency to expand control activities in the Project Area. Finally, 
it is a complementary objective of the Project to support the Ministry's activities in 
reducing the occurrence of new cases of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome 
(hereinafter AIDS).
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Prevention and Control of Disease Transmission
 
The strategy for prevention and control of endemic diseases will  consist of 
identifying the vulnerable points of the transmission cycle and  trying to break it 
with environmental measures (pesticide spraying, molusciciding and household 
sanitation) and personal chemotherapy (mass or  selective treatment). This strategy 
includes three well defined phases: Preparatory Phase, already executed, and a 
follow-up thereof by the Intervention Phase, consisting of field operations, including 
information,  education and communication (hereinafter IEC) activities, applying 
pesticides for vector control, elimination of animal reservoirs, and mass  screening 
and treatment of human cases, and the Surveillance Phase, which  includes annual 
evaluation of disease prevalence and case finding of vectors and new patients in the 
treated area (active surveillance), and compulsory  reporting of vectors and/or new 
cases (passive surveillance). Each reported new case will be subject to a full enquiry 
leading to identifying sources of infection and immediate treatment.
The foregoing will be achieved, inter alia, through the provision of about 100 
man-months of technical assistance services and the:
1.
Acquisition by SUCAM and utilization by the corresponding State of equipment for 
about 12 regional serologic laboratories for Chagas Disease in the Project Area, one 
of which, located in Belo Horizonte will be used as a  Central Reference Laboratory 
(CRL) for quality control of laboratory standards and training.
2.
Acquisition and utilization by SUCAM of equipment for about 10  regional 
serologic laboratories for Leishmaniasis in the Project Area.
3.
Equipping of 2 SUCAM laboratories for vector research for Chagas Disease and for 
Schistosomiasis.
4.
Hiring about 385 Higher level staff and 2,820 Other staff, and training about 
520 Higher level staff and 3,270 Other staff.
5.
Acquisition and utilization of about 65,250 kilograms of Niclosamide;  2,200,000 
kilograms of DDT 75% concentrate and 123,000 kilograms of DDT 100% concentrate; 
18,000,000 capsules and 86,000 bottles (240 cubic centimeters  each) of oxamniquine 
or, alternatively, an appropriate amount of raziquantel.
Part B:
Community Mobilization
 
A program for promoting community involvement in the control of endemic 
diseases, including:
1.
Acquisition and utilization of furniture and equipment for 10 regional  offices, 
including audiovisual equipment and power generators for 22 pick-ups.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of about 23 video cassette sets; 23  overhead 
projectors; 14 slide projectors; 14 photographic cameras; 10 electronic copiers; and 
14 tape recorders.
3.
Contracting of the production, distribution and broadcasting of television 
spots, radio jingles and spots, still films, and posters, calendars and flip charts.
4.
Hiring of one IEC specialist, and hiring and training of about 21 Higher-level 
staff and 22 Other staff.
Page  12
5.
Provision of about 20 man-months of IEC technical assistance services.
 
Part C:
Operational Research
 
A program of research in the following areas: (i) biological control;   (ii) 
laboratory tests; (iii) vaccine testing; (iv) epidemiological studies  to test the 
effectiveness of other interventions, including behavioral changes; and (v) 
cost-effectiveness studies.
Part D:
Institutional Development
 
A program of expansion and improvement of SUCAM's field facilities, information 
systems and management, including: 
(a)
construction and equipping of 6 regional directorates and 19 local 
(district) offices of SUCAM;
(b)
upgrading 11 regional and local facilities of SUCAM;
 
(c)
remodelling 15 spaces for serologic laboratories, and 2 training centers;
 
(d)
furnishing and equipping the parts of SUCAM's headquarters related to 
Project management and 2 training centers of SUCAM;
(e)
hiring and training of about 130 Higher-level staff for SUCAM 
headquarters and its 10 regional directorates;
(f)
acquisition and utilization of about 40 Lovibond kits or toxicity tests;
 
(g)
carrying out of one seminar, 2 training courses and one or more refresher 
seminars, all for SUCAM staff, on the safe use of pesticides; and
(h)
contracting of 48 man-months of technical assistance in the fields of: 
(i) planning; (ii) administration and information systems; (iii) transport; and (iv) 
health legislation.
Part E:
AIDS Prevention and Control
 
Carrying out of a Program to support:
(a)
on-going activities in a multimedia AIDS education campaign targeted at 
high-risk groups as well as the population at large;
(b)
a training program for Higher-level staff in the areas of management, 
diagnostic techniques and epidemiology of AIDS;
(c)
epidemiological studies in AIDS prevalence; and
 
(d)
the equipping of regional laboratories for blood testing and quality 
control of blood transfusions.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1991
through   October 15, 2002
4,540,000
 
Page  13
On April 15, 2003
4,580,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding on the Loan on the day of 
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  14
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to permit 
international competitive bidding.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and 
the Bank that such goods 
contain components manufactured in 
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
 
(2)
Group B: bid offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall be first compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in  connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods.  Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to  the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of:  (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be  levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the  same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A isthe lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for: (a) civil works, except as provided in paragraph 3 hereof; (b) 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $250,000, up to an aggregate amount to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent of  $11,000,000; and (c) activity and 
services under Part B.3 of the Project,  may be awarded in accordance with competitive 
bidding procedures locally advertised, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000, up to 
an aggregate amount to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan not exceeding the 
Page  15
equivalent of $3,500,000, may be awarded  following evaluation and comparison of 
quotations furnished by at least  three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. 
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated quotations.
3.
Civil works up to an aggregate amount to be financed out of the  proceeds of the 
Loan not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 may be carried out by force account in 
each Regional Directorate of SUCAM, through  agreements between SUCAM and the local 
Department of Public Works in each  Municipality, such agreements to be reviewed and 
approved by the Bank prior to their signing.
4.
Contracts for the purchase of niclosamide and oxamniquine under Part A.5 of the 
Project, to the extent the drug in question is proprietary in nature and obtainable 
only from one source, may be directly negotiated with  the manufacturer without 
competition up to a maximum amount of $4,000,000  equivalent in the case of 
niclosamide and $15,000,000 equivalent in the case of oxamniquine.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the CESA or FESA, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the  contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the CESA or FESA in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the CESA or FESA, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that  the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures  satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing  Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  16
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
and to $500,000 (or such other amount as the Bank may agree, at the request of and by 
notice, to the Borrower according to the disbursement requirements of the Project), to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and  deposited in the CESA and FESA, respectively, 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of CESA or FESA, as the 
case may be, shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in  accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule. The Account Bank shall  authorize withdrawals from 
the CESA or FESA, as the case may be, on the basis of the evidence that the Bank shall 
have reasonably determined. For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Account Bank 
shall debit or cause to be debited CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with the dollar 
equivalent of the amount of the eligible expenditures in question in Cruzados, in the 
case of CESA, or with the actual dollar amount or the dollar equivalent of the  
eligible expenditures in currencies other than dollars or Cruzados, in the case of 
FESA.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that CESA and  FESA have 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the corresponding Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish CESA or FESA, as the  case may be, may be made as 
follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the corresponding Authorized 
Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of CESA 
or FESA, as the case may be, at such intervals as the Bank shall  specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the  Loan Account and deposit 
into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amounts as shall be required to replenish 
CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments 
made out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such 
request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
may deny any request for a further deposit into CESA or FESA when either of the 
following situations first arises:  
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, 
minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the 
Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall 
be, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, as of the date 
Page  17
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
CESA or FESA (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this  Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, deposit into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, (or, if the Bank shall 
so request,  refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, no 
further deposit by the Bank into CESA or FESA shall be made until the Borrower has 
made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time, and after consultation 
with the Borrower, that any amount outstanding in CESA or FESA will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank  such outstanding amount for crediting to the 
Loan Account and immediate  cancellation, provided, however, that in the event that 
any amount  outstanding in either CESA or FESA could be utilized to cover eligible 
expenditures under the other special account, the Bank may at any time within a period 
ending six months after the date of this Agreement, and upon request of the Borrower 
thereafter, authorize the transfer of such outstanding amount to the special account 
where the eligible expenditures could be financed.
