Document of                           LE  
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3452-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$23 MILLION
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
January 26, 1983
TIis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =           Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
So.Sh. 1.00             =           US$ 0.0656
US$1.00                             So.Sh. 15.2271/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km.)       =           0.62 miles (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)=           0.386 square miles (sq. mi.)
1 metric ton (ton)      =           2,204 pounds (lbs.)
ABBREVIATIONS
AF           -          Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AfDF         -          African Development Fund
CED          -          Civil Engineering Department
ERR         -           Economic Rate of Return
FED         -           European Development Fund
FYDP        -           Five Year Development Plan
GDP          -          Gross Domestic Product
IDB         -           Islamic Development Bank
IMF         -           International Monetary Fund
MMTP        -           Ministry of Marine Transport and Ports
MNP          -          Ministry of National Planning
MPW         -           Ministry of Public Works
MT           -          Ministry of Transport
NTA         -           National Transport Agency
OPEC         -          Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
SA          -           Somali Airlines
SNU         -           Somali National University
SSAL        -           Somali Shipping Agency and Line
TYDP        -           Three Year Development Plan
UNDP        -           United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF SOMALIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ Since July 1, 1982.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
S O M A L I A
PROPOSED FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:            Civil Engineering Department (CED) under the Ministry of
Public Works
Amount:                 SDR 21.4 million (US$ 23.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The project would consist of: (a) strengthening and
improving the Afgoi-Baidoa road (216 km.), and related
supervision; (b) consultants services for a countrywide
road maintenance study and technical assistance to CED;
and (c) urgent road maintenance works.
Project Benefits
and Risks:              The Project would reduce transport costs on a major
artery in south-central Somalia, the Afgoi-Baidoa road,
which connects Mogadishu--principal port and capital
city--with Baidoa, the administrative capital of the Bay
Region which has a vast agricultural potential. It would
also protect past capital investments by extending the
road's service life. In addition, the Project would
assist the Borrower in improving its road maintenance
planning, organization and operations. Recruitment and
retention of sufficient and qualified local staff is,
however, a problem in Somalia and poses a risk to the
institution building objective of the project. This risk
is mitigated by the technical assistance component
included in the project, which would help identify
possible sources for recruiting additional staff, draw up
and implement training programs, and design incentives
for retention of staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cost Estimates:                                    US$ Million
Local   Foreign  Total
1. Strengthening and improvement
of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road                  5.04    24.63   29.67
2.  Supervision of (1)                        0.12      1.08    1.20
3.  Road Maintenance Study                    0.04      0.36    0.40
4.  Technical Assistance to CED               0.14      1.24    1.38
5. Assistance for Urgent Road
Maintenance Needs                         0.05      0.45    0.50
Base Cost                                 5.39    27.76   33.15
6. Contingencies
(a)  Physical (10%) on items 1-4          0.53      2.73    3.26
(b)  Pricel/ on items 1-4                 2.71      4.68    7.39
Sub-total (6)                       3.24      7.41   10.65
Total Project Cost                        8.63    35.17   43.80
Total Project Cost Excl. Taxes            8.37    35.17   43.54
Financing Plan                                   US $ Million
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                        -       23.0    23.0
Arab Fund                                 4.1      12.2    16.3
Gove rnme nt                              4.2        -       4.2
Total                                     8.3      35.2    43.5
Estimated Disbursements                                 _  US $ Million
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87
IDA FY
Annual                                    2.3      3.2      8.0      8.0      1.5
Cumulative                                2.3      5.5    13.5    21.5    23.0
Estimated Rate of Return:                    17 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:                      Report No. 3604-SO of January 6, 1983
Map:                                         IBRD No. 15924R
1/ Expected price increases (%)
1983    1984    1985    1986
Local    25.0    20.0    20.0    20.0
Foreign   8.0       7.5     7.0      7.0



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 21.4 million (US$23.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fourth Highway
project. Additional financing for the project will be obtained on
concessionary terms from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
in the amount of US$16.3 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Memorandum on the Economy of Somalia (Report No. 3284-SO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1981. The report of a
mission which carried out an Agricultural Sector Review was distributed to
the Executive Directors in June 1981. In April-May 1982 there was an
economic updating mission whose report is under preparation; its findings
are reflected below.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic gained independence in 1960 and
the present Government came into power in 1969. Under a new constitution
adopted in 1979, elections for a People's Assembly were held in December
1979. The Assembly appointed General Siad Barre as President in January
1980. The country is still affected by hostilities in the border area in
the Ogaden. During 1980, intensified war activities in the Ogaden caused a
large influx of refugees; by the end of 1980, there were over one million
refugees in camps. At the end of September 1981, the number of refugees in
camps was estimated at around 700,000.
4.        Somalia is a large country with a 3,000 kilometer coastline; its
varied topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains
and plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13
percent of the land is said to be arable but, with water the limiting
constraint, only a small fraction of this potentially-arable land is, in
fact, cultivated. About 60 percent of the total population of
approximately 4.6 million (not including refugees) are nomads and
semi-nomads who depend on livestock for their livelihood; about 20 percent
are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the
higher-rainfall Bay and North-west regions; the rest are engaged in
non-agricultural occupations. The existence of several minerals has been
confirmed, but their exploration is still in an early stage, and the
commercial viability of production remains to be proved. In the absence of
other known resources, Somalia-s prospects depend upon agricultural and
livestock development, where progress will depend upon careful management
of the scarce land and water resources.



5.        Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas (in
which foreign concession holders are still important) and the production of
sugar for the domestic market. Expansion of the manufacturing and service
sectors is limited by the small size of the domestic market, poor
infrastructure, and the shortage of capital and entrepreneural experience.
Bank staff estimate that about 70 percent of the population live at or near
the subsistence level (equivalent to about US$200-250 per family of five).
Social services are still very inadequate. Per capita income, which was
provisionally estimated at US$280 in 1981, has probably remained stagnant
in real terms over the past six years.
Development Strategy
6.        Since the revolution in 1969, the Government has adhered to a
program of "scientific socialism" whose stated objectives are
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the formation of
cooperatives. The Government has maintained that there is scope for
private initiative, and some privately financed projects have been
implemented. But the main emphasis has been given to development of the
public sector. Public ownership and management have expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector now includes about 45 autonomous agencies which have
eliminated private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking and which
dominate manufacturing. The 1974-78 development plan and the 1979-81
development plan were essentially public investment programs that allowed
for only a few small private ventures. Although the plans have provided a
needed impetus to investment, they have not played a major role in the
allocative process. Despite the Government's initial intentions, industry
and infrastructure, especially transport and communications, have received
more public investment than agriculture. At the same time, public
enterprises have operated without firm Government control, owing largely to
weak management and inadequate monitoring. While the current Five-Year
Development Plan (1982-86) follows the pattern of previous plans, there are
some indications that the Government has begun, particularly in the past
year or so, to exhibit a greater tolerance of private sector commercial
activity in the rural areas.
7.        Somalia has made some progress in meeting certain basic needs.  A
program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and
an effective system of food distribution has been established. In other
respects, however, the record in the social sectors has been less
impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation, and health, where
services have frequently been biased in favor of the urban population.
Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend towards
increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
8.        The Government's major development goals include self-sufficiency
in foodgrains, the partial substitution of other agricultural imports
(oils, sugar, cotton), and improvement of the lot of the traditional
nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in livestock
production and marketing facilities.  The current emphasis on irrigated
agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on its erratic



rainfall and to assure more stable and predictable increases in output.
However, rainfed agriculture, which provides a livelihood for the largest
number of farm families, is also being assisted. Improvements in livestock
production and marketing are being promoted, together with projects aiming
at the rangeland rehabilitation.  The Government's industrial development
policy places emphasis on the processing of domestic raw materials such as
cotton, edible oils, milk and sugar, to substitute for imports.
Past Performance and Main Issues
9.        Available indicators on production suggest that between 1972 and
1980, real GDP increased by about 2.8 percent a year. In the face of a
population growth rate of 2.4 percent, this led to a near stagnation in per
capita income. In the commodity producing sectors, the growth was only one
percent a year on average, while in the services sector it was 6.8 percent,
reflecting to a large extent increased Government employment. Within the
sectors, the annual growth was 2.7 percent in livestock, minus 3 percent in
crop production, and minus 0.8 percent in industry. In 1981, however, good
weather was the main factor accounting for a substantial increase in value
added by the crop sector.
10.       Crop production was particularly disappointing in the 1970s.  The
output of food and industrial crops stagnated between 1972 to 1980, and
there was a severe drop in banana and sugar cane production. The decline
in banana production is of particular concern because of the importance of
banana exports as a generator of foreign exchange. A critical factor in
the poor performance of the crop subsector was the Government's failure to
provide adequate price incentives to producers. Other factors were:
farmers' inadequate financial resources and limited access to productive
inputs; the inadequacy of extension services; the lack of vital
infrastructure; the inadequacy of public resources devoted to agriculture
vis-a-vis other sectors; and institutional problems which stemmed from the
poor performance and lack of coordination among the many Government and
parastatal agencies involved in the sector. In the industrial sector,
where agro-industries predominate, growth has been hampered by the low
level of agricultural output as well as by the institutional problems
besetting the public enterprises.
11.       Although Somalia has pursued economic planning for well over a
decade, the processes of economic planning and investment programming
suffer from many weaknesses. The main weaknesses are: that plans have not
been formulated in a macro-economic framework; that there has been no
mechanism for rigorously assessing resource availabilities; that there is
no explicit linkage between the annual budgets and the development plan.;
that plans have not set forth well-defined strategies or policies to
achieve the stated objectives; and that the monitoring of plan
implementation is inadequate. The 1974-78 and 1979-81 development plans
both faced difficulties in implementation owing to Somalia's low absorptive
capacity and severe domestic resource constraints. Foreign aid financed 67
percent of the total expenditure under the 1979-81 Plan, as compared to 54
percent for the 1974-78 Plan.
12.       About 60,000 Somalis have migrated to work in neighboring
oil-exporting countries in the Gulf Area. As labor migration has been



- 4 -
neither organized nor controlled by the Government, it has led to a severe
depletion of Somalia's already small stock of qualified and skilled
manpower, thereby weakening institutions and reducing the country's
absorptive capacity. The savings of these emigrants are potentially an
important resource for the economy, but despite recent adjustment of the
exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants' savings are remitted,
largely through unofficial channels.
13.       Until 1977, budgetary policies remained generally conservative
insofar as the Government's current revenues exceeded its current
expenditures and the Government was in fact maintaining a net credit
position with the Central Bank. Following the border conflict of 1977/78,
however, there was a great surge in Government expenditures which resulted
in large deficits in both the current and overall budgetary balances.
During 1978-80, the Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly,
mainly because of the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon
the border conflict, the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and
the wage bill associated with the Government's policy of guaranteeing
employment for secondary school leavers.  At the same time, official
foreign aid declined. As a result, the Government resorted to heavy
borrowing from the banking system (such borrowing was equivalent to 10
percent of GDP in 1979). This, in turn, led to rapid inflation, from 10
percent in 1978 to 24 percent in 1979 and to 59 percent in 1980. Following
demand management policies adopted by the Government under an IMF Stand-by
Arrangement, the rate of inflation dropped to 44 percent in 1981 and is
estimated at 27 percent in the first nine months of 1982.
14.       Somalia's balance of payments is characterized by: a very narrow
export base in which livestock and banana exports account for over 80
percent of total export earnings; a high share of external trade in GDP,
with (recorded) exports in 1978 equivalent to about 10 percent and
(recorded) imports equivalent to around 24 percent of GDP; a trade and
exchange system characterized until recently by the Somali shilling's
linkage to the dollar and by a parallel exchange rate applied to foreign
exchange earned by workers abroad as well as by livestock traders who were
allowed to under-invoice livestock exports. Somalia has for many years
received a large volume of concessionary foreign aid (see para. 17).
15.       Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete and
provide a very deficient basis for meaningful analysis of trade and capital
movements. It may nevertheless be concluded that Somalia had a reasonably
comfortable overall balance of payments position up to the beginning of
1979, at which time its international reserves were equivalent to seven
months of (recorded) merchandise imports. Since then, a sharp
deterioration has set in. Available data indicate that export developments
have in fact been most unfavorable since 1972. Although livestock
production has recovered from the drought in 1974/75, recorded exports of
live animals (which comprise 70 percent of total merchandise exports) have
not yet recovered to pre-drought levels and, as noted above, the drop in
banana production led to a decline in banana exports. Meanwhile, recorded
imports rose sharply, from $206 million in 1977 to $462 million in 1980.
Following restrictive demand management policies under the IMF Stand-by
program, imports dropped to $323 million in 1981. However, in 1982,



- 5 -
imports rose to an estimated $510 million; about 55 percent of these
imports are estimated to be financed by external grants (including food aid
for refugees) and loans.
16.       Somalia enjoyed a considerable improvement in its terms of trade
in the latter half of 1970s owing to high and rising prices for live
animals in the Arab countries. However, the stagnation in exports and
surge in imports since 1978 resulted in a widening of both current and
overall balance of payments deficits. The current account deficits in the
years 1979-81 averaged some $240 million, as compared to $110 million in
the years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which rose steadily from
$31 million in 1972 to $158 million in March 1979, dropped to $15 million
at the end of December 1980, and have since declined to $10 million (about
one week's imports).
17.       The stagnation of export earnings and the low level of domestic
savings have rendered Somalia increasingly dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and
transfers from 1975 onwards indicate that the effort has been successful.
After 1977, the sources of foreign assistance shifted from the socialist
countries (except for the People's Republic of China which maintains a
large program) towards Arab bilateral and multilateral institutions and
Western countries, several of which have had substantial assistance
programs for a number of years. According to OECD data, Somalia's receipt
of ODA during the period 1977-1980 averaged $300 million per year,
equivalent to some $60 per capita per year.
18.       Somalia's public external debt (outstanding and disbursed) as of
December 1981 was $907 million, equivalent to eight times the level of
recorded exports. Although a large share of the external debt is on fairly
soft terms and the debt service ratio up to 1979 remained well below 10
percent, the debt service burden is expected to become much heavier in the
near future. This is because in recent years the Government has contracted
loans with short maturities; it has also accumulated debt service payments
arrears which at the end of March 1982 were estimated at $63 million. The
debt service ratio is projected to increase from about 20 percent in 1980
to about 37 percent by 1984.
19.       In sum, Somalia experienced in the late 1970s and into the early
1980s a deep economic and financial crisis characterized by: stagnation in
production and exports; a rapidly rising budget deficit financed through
recourse to the banking system; rising inflation; a worsening balance of
payments situation; a critical loss of foreign reserves; and a worsening
external debt situation. This crisis reflects not only adverse
developments in the international economy, but also past and current
weaknesses in economic management.
Recent Policy Changes
20.       The Government has recently realized that corrective policy
measures were needed to overcome this crisis. At the beginning of 1980,
supported by an IMF Standby, the Government embarked upon a limited



- 6 -
stabilization program which served to reduce slightly both total government
expenditures and the budgetary deficit. That program lapsed when Somalia
was unable to conform to the program's credit and debt ceilings. Beginning
in early 1981, the Government began to take more substantial remedial
action, and through the course of 1981 and 1982 it proceeded to implement
two successive stabilization programs, both supported by IMF Stand-by
Arrangements.
21.       The core of these programs comprised measures to adjust the
exchange rate, impose fiscal and monetary restraint, and to raise producer
prices. The Government also decided to review the operations of the public
enterprises; as part of this review three public agencies/enterprises were
abolished. Policy measures introduced under the June 1981 Stand-by were:
introduction of a dual exchange rate, which meant a substantial devaluation
of the Somali shilling; a two-fold increase in the producer price for
bananas; introduction of a new tax on livestock exports; cutbacks in
Government expenditures; improvements in tax collection; and an upward
adjustment of the interest rate structure.
22.       Following the completion of the 1981/82 program, the Government
adopted a new stabilization program in mid-1982, supported by the Fund with
a SDR 60 million 18-month Stand-by Arrangement covering the period July
1982-December 1983. Under this arrangement, the exchange rate structure
was unified, the Somali shilling was further devalued, and the Somali
shilling became pegged to the SDR. The program also provided for the
tightening of fiscal and monetary policies and for a further upward
adjustment of interest rates.
23.       These policy measures have already had some positive impact in
terms of effecting Somalia's stabilization objectives and, to a lesser
extent, in stimulating commodity production. However, these measures
represent only a first stage in the formulation and implementation of a
policy agenda which must be directed simultaneously at restoring financial
equilibrium, rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing agricultural
and industrial productive capacity, and thereby establishing the
foundations of long-term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
24.      Since 1965, IDA has made 23 credits totaling US$172.3 million, of
which about 30% have been made for transportation development, including
construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and associated
extensions in Mogadishu. IDA credits were also made for livestock
development in FY74, for a development finance company project in FY77, and
for education in FY71, FY75, FY78 and FY81. Lending for crop agriculture
commenced in FY76 with two credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Project and
a North-West Region Agricultural Development Project. Additional credits
for Central Rangelands, Agricultural Extension and Training and Bay Region
Development projects were approved in FY79 and FY80. Agricultural and
livestock credits represent about 35% of total lending. Two credits for
development of water supply in Mogadishu were approved in FY78 and FY82 and
a technical assistance credit for project preparation in FY78. A credit
for promotion of petroleum exploration was approved in FY80. IFC



made its first loan to Somalia in FY81. No Bank loan has been made to
Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of
November 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
25.      Performance of ongoing projects has been somewhat weak due mainly
to shortage of qualified personnel. As the pace of development continues
to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are becoming increasingly evident,
especially in the field of agriculture where projects are rather complex
and implementation experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing and
appraising new projects, particularly close attention is being paid to
implementation capacity and the adoption of measures to ease this
constraint when necessary. Partially to address this problem, the
Government has established a Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of
National Planning which has strengthened the capacity for project
implementation by providing monitoring and logistical support to the
projects, including assistance in procurement and recruitment of
consultants.  Difficulties encountered in project implementation are
reflected in Somalia-s disbursement performance. The disbursement rate,
i.e. actual disbursements during the year as a percentage of the
undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year, has declined over recent
years from 35.9 percent in FY77 to 16.3 percent in FY80, but has slightly
improved in FY81 and FY82. The FY82 disbursement rate was 22.9 percent, as
compared with a rate of 23.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.9 percent
Bank-wide. This negative trend in disbursement performance has been
brought to the attention of Government authorities, and efforts are being
intensified to help improve it.
26.       Somalia's statistical service lacks the capacity to fulfill the
data needs of development programs. The Bank's operations have experienced
difficulties in obtaining statistical data. We have therefore included
funds for strengthening the Central Statistical Department in the Ministry
of National Planning under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management
Training Project (Credit 905-SO).
27.      We plan to concentrate our future efforts on the country's
directly productive sectors, agriculture, livestock and fisheries, and also
on education and transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer
potential for development, most rural development activities are only in
the early stages. Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia is
particularly difficult because most of the people in rural areas are
nomadic. To increase our knowledge of agriculture in Somalia the Bank
Group has recently made a comprehensive review of the sector (para. 2). In
addition to these sectors, we plan to support the Government's industrial
development efforts (and assist in the formulation of an industrial
development policy) through our country economic and sector work and future
industrial development finance projects. We also plan to continue
assistance to the energy sector.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
28.       Somalia's transport system comprises about 21,600 km of roads
(including about 9,600 km of primary and secondary roads), three principal
ports and fifteen airfields, four of which have paved runways. There are



- 8 -
no railways, pipelines or inland waterways. Road transport is by far the
principal means of internal transport. Although the coverage of the road
network is adequate for the country's present needs, the standards and
condition of the roads are not satisfactory.
29.      Three ports handle all of Somalia's ocean transport:  Berbera in
the north on the Gulf of Aden, and Mogadishu and Kismayo in the south on
the Indian ocean. All of them have sheltered deep water facilities.
Mogadishu is the main port, handling most of Somalia's export/import
traffic (58% in 1981).  The ports of Berbera and Kismayo are mainly for the
export of livestock and bananas, respectively.  A small port at Merca
exported bananas in the past but has been virtually inactive since 1978 as
a result of the diversion of banana traffic to the Mogadishu port after the
latter was extended and improved in 1977.  During the period 1975-80,
traffic in the Mogadishu port increased at an annual rate of 14.6%, while
that of the Berbera port grew at a moderate rate of 4% and that of the
Kismayo port declined at about 4%.
30.      Although most of Somalia's international trade is being handled by
foreign vessels, about 8% is carried by the Somali Shipping Agency and Line
(SSAL), an autonomous parastatal agency under the authority of the Ministry
of Marine Transport and Ports (MMTP). In 1980, total freight transported
by SSAL was about 105,000 tons, mostly exports of livestock and bananas to
the Near East and Italy, respectively. Despite a coastline of about 3,000
km, one of the longest on the continent, coastal shipping has had a very
limited significance mainly due to the lack of inter-regional trade
suitable for such shipping. However, individual operators with small boats
carry some passenger and freight traffic along the northern coast.
31.      In view of long distances and inadequate land transport, civil
aviation has good potential for development in Somalia. Between 1975 and
1979, internal passenger transport increased by 21% per year and freight by
28% per year, while international passenger traffic at Mogadishu airport
increased 24% annually. Somali Airlines (SA) serves eight of the country's
fifteen airfields with scheduled domestic flights; Mogadishu and Hargeisa
have international airports and two other airports, Kismayo and Berbera,
have paved runways.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
32.      Although the Government has not prepared a long-term strategy for
the development of the transport sector, investments realized in the past
indicate that it had assigned a high priority to this sector. The
Government's broad objectives in the transport sector as enunciated in the
most recent development plans are to (i) open new areas for development in
order to increase the productive capacity of the economy; (ii) foster
economic integration of relatively isolated areas; and (iii) facilitate
movement of goods within the country at low cost. Somalia's specific
objectives for the road subsector include upgrading of primary and
secondary roads, which are mainly earth and gravel to prevent serious
traffic interruptions during the rainy season and to reduce vehicle
operating costs.
33.      Under the Five-Year Development Plan (1974-78), transport
investments accounted for about 20% of total planned public investments, or



- 9 -
So.Sh. 1,104.7 million (US$175.6 million).  However, due to cost overruns
caused by implementation delays and inflation, a number of projects were
carried over to the following Three-Year Plan (1979-81). Roads and road
transport accounted for 71% of the investments in the transport sector,
ports and marine transport 26% and civil aviation 3%. The Government
financed about 27% of the projects cost; external aid contributed the
remaining 73%.  In the Three-Year Development Plan (1979-81), about 25% of
the total public investments were allocated to the sector, which is in line
with the needs of a poorly developed transport infrastructure.
34.      The Government of Somalia has recently completed the preparation
of the 1982-86 Development Plan. According to the new Plan, out of So.Sh.
16,299 million (US$1,072 million) of planned investments for the whole
economy, only 8.3% or So.Sh. 1,349 million is envisaged for the transport
sector. This amount represents a substantial reduction of the sector's
share from the previous plans and appears to be low for the sector-s
needs. The road subsector's share amounts to 65% of the total investments
in the sector while ports and civil aviation represent 25% and 10%
respectively.
35.      Four ministries are involved in the transport sector:  (i) the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW), through its Civil Engineering Department
(CED), is responsible for planning, constructing, and maintaining roads and
constructing ports and airports; (ii) the Ministry of Transport (MT) is
responsible for road transport including vehicle registration and for civil
aviation through its Civil Aviation Department; (III) the Ministry of
Marine Transport and Ports (MMTP) is responsible for port operations and,
through the Somali Shipping Agency and Line (SSAL), for marine transport;
and (iv) the Ministry of National Planning (MNP) for general planning of
the sector and for monitoring project implementation. Despite the
dispersion of transport responsibilities among these four ministries,
intermodal coordination is not a major issue. There is no railway nor are
there any plans for one, and the limited coastal shipping is not likely to
increase significantly in the foreseeable future to compete with road
transport.
The Highway Subsector
36.      Network.  Of the 21,600 km of roads in the country, 2,460 km are
paved, 570 km are gravelled and the rest are earth roads and tracks. In
terms of administrative classification, the lengths of primary, secondary
and rural/feeder roads are about 4,300 km, 5,300 km and 12,000 km.
respectively. The coverage of the network is adequate for the country's
present needs but the standards and condition of the roads are not
satisfactory. Low standard roads prevail, although there has been
considerable road upgrading since 1971; the paved roads increased from
about 900 km in 1971 to 2,460 km in 1981.
37.      Vehicle Fleet.  Available data on fleet composition, age and
condition indicate that there were about 15,600 privately owned vehicles
and a fleet of 2,900 government vehicles (excluding the military) in 1980,
yielding a national total of about 18,500 motor vehicles. The composition
of the vehicle fleet shows that pickups and vans constitute the largest
category, 34%; passenger cars, 28%; medium and heavy trucks, 26%; and light



- 10 -
trucks and taxis, 12%. There are no vehicle manufacturers in Somalia;
Italy is the principal source of supply.
38.      Traffic Growth.  Reliable data on road traffic in Somalia are not
available. Nevertheless, some indications of traffic growth could be
obtained from data on fuel consumption. Between 1974 and 1979 average
annual gasoline consumption increased by 12% and diesel fuel by 2.9%,
nearly all consumed by motor vehicles. On the basis of the annual growth
rate of fuel consumption, as well as the production of and demand for goods
in Somalia and available data from occasional traffic counts, the average
annual growth rate of traffic is estimated at about 5%.
39.      Road Transport Industry.  Freight transport is carried out by
private truckers who own about 4,000 trucks, and by the National Transport
Agency (NTA), a parastatal company established in 1978. Although the
Government seems to encourage the growth of the industry, modest economic
activity of the private sector, poor road conditions, shortage of spare
parts and fuel, and seasonal demand for freight transport services render
profitability low, thereby inhibiting growth of the industry. Although
there are official tariffs, they are not always enforced, and most of
transport services between transporters and customers are settled by mutual
agreement. Commercial operations in the private sector are small-scale,
comprising mainly single owner/operators with very few having more than
five trucks. They provide almost all the transport services demanded by
the private sector and partially cater to the needs of the public sector
especially for services off the main trunk routes and for those which
necessitate smaller and lighter vehicles. NTA, with a fleet of about 290
trucks, operates under the authority of the Ministry of Transport and
primarily serves the Goverrnment-s needs. NTA handles about 25% of the
country's freight transport demand, while the private sector handles the
balance. Passenger transport is provided only by the private sector.
Given the relatively high demand for passenger transport, especially in and
around the larger towns, the operations are commercially viable.
40.      Administration.  The Civil Engineering Department (CED), under the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW), is responsible for planning, building and
maintaining all roads, and constructing ports and airports, which are
maintained by other Government organizations. It has six divisions
(Planning and Design, Construction, Maintenance, Materials Laboratory,
Equipment and Administration) and sixteen regional road maintenance
sections. The regional road maintenance sections, while receiving
technical support from CED, operate under the administrative control of
regional directors who report to MPW. CED has three main workshops at
Hargeisa, Mogadishu and Kismayo, set up under the First Highway Project
(Credit No. 74-SO) which handle major repairs for vehicles and equipment;
regional workshops take care of minor repairs and routine servicing.
41.      The shortage of qualified staff has adversely affected CED's
operations. The technical assistance team financed by the Arab Fund under
the ongoing Third Highway Project is assisting CED to alleviate staffing
shortage and to provide on-the-job training to Somali technicians.
However, training is generally hindered by the low level of skills. The
technical assistance component included in the proposed project would help
assess the manpower needs of the CED, identify sources for recruiting



- 11 -
additional staff, and draw up and implement suitable training programs
(para. 53).
42.      Road User Revenue/Road Expenditures.  Road users contribute to
Government revenues through taxes and duties levied on fuel, lubricants,
imported vehicles and spare parts, as well as vehicle registration and
inspection fees and license fees. Tax on gasoline is one of the highest in
Eastern Africa, and there are no subsidies of retail fuel prices. Over the
period 1975-1979, annual revenues from fuel taxes and duties increased by
over 7% and averaged nearly So.Sh. 130 million per year, while the
Government's annual average contribution to road construction and
maintenance was estimated at about So.Sh. 48 million for the same period.
43.      Construction.  Major road and bridge construction works are
generally undertaken by foreign contractors and supervised by consultants.
Contracts are let out on unit-price basis, following suitable
prequalification and tendering procedures. Apart from a few small
contractors capable of carrying out minor road or culvert works, no local
highway construction industry exists in Somalia. CED itself carries out
some rehabilitation/reconstruction works on roads.
44.      Maintenance.  Although CED is responsible for the maintenance of
the road network, actual field operations are carried out under the
administrative control of the regional directors. The quality and quantity
of work performed by the regional organizations is unsatisfactory. Much of
the road maintenance equipment is in need of repair, and there are no
regular programs for routine maintenance. Staff shortages prevent CED
headquarters from overseeing maintenance operations. The quality of all
roads has deteriorated: paved roads have not been resealed and have
developed potholes and surface cracks; maintenance of gravel/earth roads
has been neglected and most gravel roads have reverted to dirt roads. The
proposed project will help finance a countrywide road maintenance study to
review the current situation and make recommendations for improving road
maintenance planning, organization and operations (para. 53).
Previous Bank Group Lending in the Highway Subsector
45.      IDA support for the road subsector has had two major goals,
namely, the completion of a basic system of trunk roads and building up of
an effective institution for highway planning, design, construction and
maintenance. The First Highway Project (Credit 74-SO of US$6.2 million in
March 1965) cofinanced by IDA, the European Development Fund (FED) and UNDP
comprised construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road (216 km), purchase of road
maintenance and workshop equipment, construction of an office building and
technical assistance to CED. In order to keep costs within available
funds, Government, FED and IDA decided that the pavement be designed for a
service life of seven years using staged construction. Bids received for
road construction were US$2.8 million more than the appraisal estimate of
US$8 million which led to a supplementary credit (Credit 123-SO) of US$2.3
million in June 1968.  Road construction was completed in March 1971.
Traffic on the road has been greater than what was estimated at appraisal,
resulting in an economic rate of return of 13-15%. The Project Performance
Audit Report (No. 2391, March 1, 1979) concluded that the project-s
objectives have been largely achieved, namely the road has facilitated



- 12 -
agricultural development In the project area and promoted social and
economic cohesion. The road has, however, reached the end of its economic
life and is in need of strengthening and improvement.
46.      The Second Highway Project (Credit 295-SO of US$9.6 million in
March 1972) was cofinanced by IDA and the African Development Bank, and
included the construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road (158 km), a
feasibility study and detailed engineering for the Hargeisa-Borama road
with a link to Tug Wajale, and technical assistance to update the 1966
Transport Study. Road construction was completed in May 1975. The Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 2391, March 1, 1979) concluded that the
project has achieved its objectives; the road has allowed the trucking of
livestock, the major export commodity, from market to the port, and the
1978 Transport Survey, a component of the project, helped the Government
prepare the road program under the 1979-1981 Development Plan.
47.      The Third Highway Project (Credit 699-SO of US$7.0 million in June
1977), cofinanced by IDA, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
(AF), the Islamic Development Bank (IDB) and the African Development Fund
(AfDF), comprises the construction of the Hargeisa-Borama Road with a link
to Tug Wajale (132 km), an extension of the paved road westward from
Hargeisa to Berbera, a feasibility study and detailed engineering of the
Dinsor-Bardere-Gelib road, and strengthening of the CED through provision
of technical assistance, training and workshop equipment. Construction
works on the road started in November 1978, but came to a standstill in
August 1980 following an air raid in the project area. Only 56 km of road
from Hargeisa had been completed. At the contractor-s request, the
Government terminated his contract as of December 27, 1980. The Government
has proposed inviting bids from other contractors (local or foreign)
operating in Somalia to complete the road. Since the road has been
completed to a point 13 km short of a large town, Nabadid, the Association
agreed to continue participating in completing the road up to Nabadid using
the balance of uncommitted funds (about US$2 million) for civil works. The
Association has, however, decided not to participate in completing the
remaining sections, Nabadid-Borama (44 km.) and Nabadid-Tug Wajale (19
km.), in view of the very low rate of return estimated at about 6%, which
is mainly due to the sharp decline in traffic and economic activity and
high increase in construction costs, resulting from the difficult situation
in the area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.      A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Fourth Highway Project,
Somali Democratic Republic" (Report No. 3604-SO, dated January 6, 1983) is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A Credit and
Project Summary appears at the beginning of this report and a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III. A map (IBRD No. 15924R) of the
proposed project area is attached. The project was prepared by the
Government with the assistance of consultants, and appraised by an IDA
mission in May 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington from December 13
to 16, 1982. The Somali delegation was led by H.E. Ahmed Habib Ahmed,
Minister of Juba Valley Development.



- 13 -
Project Objectives and Description
49.      The main objectives of the proposed project are to reduce
transport costs on a major artery in south-central Somalia, the
Afgoi-Baidoa road, and to protect past capital investment by extending the
road-s service life. The project would also assist the borrower in
improving its road maintenance planning, organization and operations. It
would consist of:
(a) strengthening and improvement of the Afgoi-Baidoa road (216
km.), and related supervision;
(b) consultancy services for:
(i) a countrywide road maintenance study; and
(ii) technical assistance to the Civil Engineering
Department; and
(c) assistance for urgent road maintenance needs.
(a) Strengthening and Improvement of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road
50.      The Afgoi-Baidoa road, which forms part of a major artery
connecting Baidoa in South-Central Somalia with Mogadishu, was constructed
in 1971 with the assistance of FED and IDA under the First Highway
Project. The road pavement was originally designed for a service life of
seven years using staged construction. Although traffic has developed more
than what the road was designed to carry, it has held up well and retained
its camber and profile except in sections where it crosses poor soils. In
such sections, the road has poor riding quality and the surface is badly
rutted and cracked. The road, which has not been resealed since its
construction, shows signs of distress; it has reached the end of its
economic life and needs to be strengthened and improved.
51.      The consulting firm of Halcrow International Partnership carried
out a technical and economic evaluation study including detailed
engineering for strengthening and improvement of the road. The study
started in September 1980 and was completed in June 1981. In considering
pavement strengthening and improvement alternatives, the consultants
identified two possible solutions, one for a service life of 10 years and
the other for a service life of 20 years. Based on their technical and
economic evaluation, the consultants proposed, and the Government and IDA
agreed, to strengthen and improve the road for a service life of 20 years.
In addition to pavement strengthening, the road shoulders would be widened
and reconstructed and drainage improved along the whole road. The design
standards adopted for the road are in accordance with Somalia-s primary
road standards. The Association also agreed with the Government s proposal
to engage the above consultants for construction supervision.



- 14 -
(b) Countrywide Road Maintenance Study
52.      Road maintenance organization in the country-s sixteen regional
road maintenance sections is inadequate. There is a lack of trained
manpower and there are no organized crews to carry out road maintenance.
The workshops lack facilities for servicing and day-to-day repair of road
maintenance equipment. There has also been a decline in the funds
allocated for road maintenance. Present allocations are far below what is
required. Based on data from CED, the allocation for 1981 was So.Sh. 7.3
million, and the amount allocated for 1982, So.Sh. 5.3 million, is far
short of the So.Sh. 20 million requested by CED. The Government, however,
has recently confirmed that the 1983 budget included an allocation of
So.Sh. 20 million for road maintenance.
53.       The proposed project will help finance a countrywide road
maintenance study to review the current situation and to make
recommendations for improving road maintenance planning, organization, and
operations. The study would, among other things, make recommendations for
establishing road maintenance training units along primary roads (including
the Afgoi-Baidoa road) to facilitate training of the road maintenance
staff. The study would also propose a five-year comprehensive road
rehabilitation and maintenance program including a time schedule for its
implementation and requirement of staff, funds, materials, equipment,
workshop facilities, etc., which could form the basis for future assistance
to the sector. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that: (a) the findings and recommendations of the road
maintenance study be reviewed with the Association, and, within six months
upon completion of this study, a plan of action to implement the
recommendations of the study be prepared and submitted to the Association
for its approval (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06); (b)
pending recommendations of the countrywide road maintenance study on the
recurrent funds required, the budgetary allocation for road maintenance for
1984 will be at least So.Sh. 20 million in 1983 prices (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.03(b)); (c) by September 1 of each year up to
and including 1987, the Government shall review with the Association the
budgetary requirements and the proposed budgetary allocation for road
maintenance for the following budget year (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.03(c)); and (d) the Government shall not divert road
maintenance staff and equipment to other uses (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.04).
(c) Technical Assistance to CED
54.      The technical assistance components included in the First and
Third Highway Projects have helped initiate effective road maintenance
operations; however, their success in institution-building has been rather
limited. This has been partly due to the transfer of trained personnel to
other agencies and the departure of staff for neighboring oil-rich
countries offering higher salaries. An increase in the number of regions
from eight to sixteen in 1973 has also weakened the organization, adversely
affecting CED operations, particularly road maintenance. Continued
attention to manpower availability and staff training is, therefore,
necessary. The proposed project will provide technical assistance and
training using local institutions. In the short term, apart from providing



- 15 -
some technical assistance to aid CED in improving road maintenance
operations and in drawing and implementing training programs for staff, the
Government has agreed to assign every year to CED, from 1983 until the
completion of the project, newly graduated civil engineers from the Somali
National University, so that CED will employ at least ten additional civil
engineers by the completion of the project (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.02). For the longer term, the country-wide road
maintenance study included in the project will review the present road
maintenance organization and make recommendations for its improvement
including staffing requirements, overall training needs, design of
incentives for efficient performance of staff at various levels and any
technical assistance that might be required for implementing the findings
of the study.
55.      The technical assistance component included in the project would
require a total of about 180 man-months and would comprise a road
maintenance engineer (team leader), a design/construction engineer, a road
maintenance superintendent, two workshop superintendents and an
administrative/financial officer for a period of 30 months each. While the
technical assistance staff will be provided by a consulting firm, the
Government, by October 31, 1983, will assign to the technical assistance
team counterpart staff with qualifications and experiences satisfactory to
the Association (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07). The
Government will also submit by June 30, 1984 to the Association for its
review and approval a suitable training program including any arrangements
with the local technical institutions for training of CED's staff (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.06).
(d) Assistance for urgent road maintenance needs
56.      The proposed credit would include a small amount (US$450,000) to
cover the foreign exchange cost of materials (cement, steel, bitumen),
basic equipment, spare parts and tools required for any urgent road
maintenance needs recommended by the consultants. Specific items of
equipment, spare parts and tools to be financed would be decided when the
needs are determined. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that lists of goods to be purchased shall be submitted to the
Association for its review and approval (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.08).
Project Costs
57.      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is
estimated at US$43.8 million of which US$35.2 million, or 80 percent is the
foreign exchange component. Excluding taxes and duties estimated at US$0.3
million'/ the total project cost is US$43.5 million. The cost for the
strengthening and improvement of the Afgoi-Baidoa road reflects the price
of the lowest evaluated bid of the seven bids received in October 1982.
The lowest bid is about 2% below the consultants  estimate.  Costs average
1/ The small tax component consists mainly of the local wage tax, as the
contract documents permit the contractor to procure all fuels and
materials free of duty and taxes.



- 16 -
between US$45,000 and US$215,000 per km depending upon the amount of work
involved in different sections. The foreign exchange component of
construction costs is estimated at 83%. The consultants' services required
by the project include: (i) about 135 man-months at an average rate of
US$8,800 per man-month for the supervision of road strengthening and
improvement; (ii) about 180 man-months at an average rate of US$8,800 per
man-month for the technical assistance to CED; and (iii) about 36
man-months at an average rate of US$10,000 per man-month for the road
maintenance study.
Financing Plan
58.      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 21.4 million (US$23 million
equivalent) would finance about 65% of the foreign cost. The remaining 35%
of foreign cost (about US$12.2 million) and about 50% of local costs (about
US$4.1 million equivalent) would be financed by the Arab Fund. The
Government will provide US$4.2 million equivalent to cover the balance of
local costs. IDA and the Arab Fund would jointly finance the contracts for
civil works and construction supervision. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, all conditions precedent to initial disbursements under the
Arab Fund Loan Agreement shall have been fulfilled (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
Project Implementation
59.      The Civil Engineering Department (CED) under the Ministry of
Public Works would be responsible for the implementation of the project.
The Association has agreed with the Government's proposal to engage for the
supervision of road construction Halerow International Partnership
Consultants, who carried out the economic evaluation and detailed
engineeering study of the road (para. 51). For the road maintenance study
and technical assistance to CED, consultants would be employed in
accordance with the Bank Group guidelines and would be selected solely on
the basis of the technical competence of the firm, the personnel
undertaking the assignment, and the suitability of its proposal; this was
agreed with the Government during negotiations (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02).
60.      The road strengthening and improvement would take about 32 months
beginning mid-1983 with an estimated 15%, 30%, 35% and 20% of works to be
carried out in 1983, 1984, 1985 and 1986, respectively; the road
maintenance study would take about 12 months and should be completed in the
latter half of 1984; technical assistance to CED will be spread over a
period of 2-1/2 years starting in mid-1983. An implementation schedule was
agreed with the Government during negotiations.
Procurement
61.      The civil works would be procured under unit-price contract(s)
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group
"Guidelines for Procurement". Materials, equipment, spare parts and tools
required for urgent road maintenance needs would involve a number of
relatively minor individual purchases that would not attract international



- 17 -
competitive bidding and would be procured on the basis of at least four
responsive quotations from suppliers eligible under the Bank Group
"Guidelines for Procurement".
Disbursements
62.      The proposed Credit would be disbursed on the following basis: (i)
50% of total expenditures for the strengthening and improvement of the
Afgoi-Baidoa road; (ii) 50% of total expenditures for consultants' services
for supervision of the road strengthening; (iii) 90% of total expenditures
for consultants services for the road maintenance study and the technical
assistance to CED; and (iv) 100% of foreign expenditures for materials,
equipment, spare parts and tools for urgent road maintenance works, if
procured internationally; 90% of local expenditures if procured locally.
All disbursements would be fully documented. A schedule of estimated
disbursements is given in the Credit and Project Summary. The proposed
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
63.      Project accounts would be maintained by CED with separate accounts
for each component, and would be available for inspection by the
Association during project supervision missions. CED's accounts are
audited annually by the Magistrate of Accounts, an independent Government
body, which submits its report to the Presidency. These audits are of a
satisfactory standard. During negotiations, the Government agreed that all
project accounts would be audited by the Magistrate of Accounts who would
prepare a report on the audit for submission to the Association not later
than six months after the end of the fiscal year (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.01(b)). The Government also agreed to submit a
project completion report in a form satisfactory to the Association not
later than 6 months after the Closing Date of the Credit (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(d)).
Environmental Impact
64.      No environmental issues are likely to arise from the project and
no disturbance to land use is expected to occur. In fact, improved
drainage facilities along the road would benefit adjacent areas and soil
erosion would be less than at present.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.      The proposed project would reduce transport costs on a major
artery, the Afgoi-Baidoa road, which connects Mogadishu--principal port and
capital city--with Baidoa, the administrative capital of the Bay region
which has a vast agricultural potential. It would also protect past
capital investment by extending the road's service life. The economic
analysis of the strengthening and improvement of the Afgoi-Baidoa road
takes into account the fact that larger investments would be needed later
for reconstruction of the road, if the proposed works are not carried out
now at comparatively much lower costs.



- 18 -
66.      The main benefits from the proposed civil works would be reduced
vehicle operating and road maintenance costs; there would also be savings
in deferred major reconstruction works which would be necessary if the road
were allowed to deteriorate further. Benefits from improved road safety
and accident reduction could not be quantified and have not been included
in the computation of the ERR. Since a paved road has existed for a
decade, it is estimated that traffic generated due to the strengthening and
improvement works would be negligible; consequently, vehicle operating
costs savings have been limited to the normal traffic on the road. Savings
in transport costs of some additional traffic on the road (from the traffic
carrying supplies to refugee camps and later from the Bay Region
Agricultural Development Project) have been included as benefits from the
project. There would also be various non-quantifiable benefits in terms of
improving access to social and administrative services as well as
facilitating regional development.
67.      The major direct beneficiaries of the reduced transport costs
would be local truck and bus operators. Since the private market is
essentially competitive and the tariffs set by the Government are based on
operating costs, it is expected that the benefits would be passed on to the
rural population and to consumers of goods originating in the road zone.
The Government would also benefit directly through a significant reduction
in the transport cost of materials for a planned cement plant in the
region. Finally, the refugee relief operation, which has placed heavy
demands on this road for transport of needed supply, would greatly benefit
as well.
68.      As regards institution building, there is a high risk in Somalia
of a delay in improving CED's road maintenance capability if planned local
staff leave for lucrative jobs outside the Government or leave the country
altogether. Given the vital importance of improving CED's capability, this
risk has to be taken. The risk, however, is mitigated by the technical
assistance component, included in the project, which would help identify
possible sources for recruiting additional staff, draw up and implement
training programs, and design incentives for retention of staff.
Economic Rate of Return
69.      The economic rate of return (ERR) on the strengthening and
improvement of the Afgoi-Baidoa road is estimated at 17 percent. Six
different road sections would have ERRs ranging from 12% to 23%, exceeding
the opportunity cost of capital in Somalia estimated at about 10%. A
sensitivity analysis was carried out for a 15% rise in construction costs
or a 15% decrease in benefits, and in either case, the ERR of about 13% was
above the estimated opportunity cost of capital. With regard to other
components, namely, the country-wide road maintenance study, the assistance
for urgent road maintenance needs and technical assistance to CED,
substantial benefits are expected to occur through the development of the
Government's capability to maintain the road network. These components are
clearly justified, although the benefits could not be quantified.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali
Democratic Republic and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
71.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 26, 1983



-  20  -                                   AkllC.1
Page 1 of 4
SOMALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOMALIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,AGES
AREA (THOUSAN'D SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIHATE)-
TOTAL             637.7                                      MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              HIDDLE INCOHE
AGRICULTURAL      299.2                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SANAR.A  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       70.0         90.0      280.0/-c              250.0                   1053.2
ENEgGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           16.1        32.9       74.3                   66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YZAR (ThOUSANDS)       2450.0      3113.0    3914.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    17.3           23.1      30.2                   17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             6.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              19.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             3.8          4.9       6.0                   27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           8.2         10.4      12.8                   86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              43.8        46.5       42.6                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                              53.6        51.6       53.9                   52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        2.7          1.9       3.5                    2.9                     2.8
POPL'LATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.8          2.4       2.3                    2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                   4.8          5.3       5.0                    6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          46.8        45.9       46.2                   47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          27.7        24.0       20.2                   19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.0          3.0       3.0                    3.2                     3.2
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF M}ARRIED WOMEN)        ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               97.0       100.0       82.0                   88. 7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        89.0        85.0       88.0/d                 90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)               76.0        71.0       69.0/d                 53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIHAL AND PULSE            47.0        45.0       41.0d-                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          39.9         35.1      31.6                   26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         35.9        39.7       43.5                   45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               175.0        158.5     146.2                  129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         15.0      33.0/!                 23.9
URBAS                                    ..        17.0       56.o/E                 54.9
RURAL                                    .         14.0       20.0/e                 18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..      47.0/f                 25.8
URBAN                                    ..           ..      77.0/f                 63.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..      35.0i!                 20.2
POPULATIION PER PHYSICIAN            36567.0      23583.0   18485.0'd              32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER N'URSING PERSON        4813.0       4112.0                            3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                694.0        638.0      614.5/_               1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                                145.0        241.0         *.                 249.5                    430.8
RURAL                               5643.0       7102.0                            1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIOh' PER HOSPITAL BED
HOUS ING
lVMGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
gumRAL                                   *                        5-  -d
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOH
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RULAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RUkAL                                    ..           ..



-  21  -                             ANEX I
Paoe 2 of 4
SOMALlA - aOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOtALIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEA^CES
- MOST RECENT ESTIVATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOU INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTR OF SANARA
EDUCAIION
ADJLSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  9.0         9.0       50.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  13.0        14.0       64.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                 5.0         5.0       36.0                  50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0         4.0        7.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   2.0         7.0       11.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                0.2          2.0        4.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF sECONDARY)26.O          3.0       28,0                   7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0        33.0       31.0                  47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          20.0        24.0       18.0                  26.2                    23. 4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         1.5/&        5.0      60.0/h                34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.1         2.2         ..                   3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.8        16.1       20.9                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POFIJLATION                          ..           ..        ..                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          1.4        ..                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.4/'         1.7        ,.                   1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1016.6      1208.8    1544.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.1        29.7       30.3                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.0        85.0       82.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0         6.0        8.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                41.5         38.8      39.5                  41.4                    37.0
KALE                                 58.7         55.2      60.1                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               24.7        22.8       22.1                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.2       1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
FERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     150.0                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     110.0                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      65.0                  46.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.0                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.0                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      70.0                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic mean..  Coverage of countrieg
among the Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwlie  noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Estioete, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1981 Estimate.
/d    1977; le 1976; lf 1975; /h Increase due to literacy campaign of 1974;
/1. 1958



!P67 A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             I-PI'TI~       ~     ~ ~~~SIA;PFPF~.r
-,T_ -.In ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~;T;;FAA'Ea-(EEFFESES?-SPIAS.                                                       I             -,F!FSAFEE;
C60  AF -l E;;AI  AFT--O0E;FF;FP FAETrAF- -TI A  AF  FTs  oASA  'A2 -;?TFA
;EE1AA  Pr *F1.'0  ;10Ar1                                           TFFI A;SEA;EEO?;FF(;SP;PFFSFTpE_;F?FOO-;
AECOFF1O FF1 ;sro; PFOEFF';rF                         -FEA) AAAFIflFOAOAEF!0             PpIF;'FFAETOAOA- AF0ESAAAFAr;AFFAr
I,I'I I-3 -TI1Id d'-::SF q,EIFFSE
OAF  A;09AA;;AEr 5F FA A  5F ESAS SAJF- -A7F   A;AaI EFd -Ee
PEAF    SF6    FFSA7     FAF       01    poSpN   PF-3EAEI IrO  Sr:
- FIF;'F   0;AS(65M        ISSPO;A
-1 NI (TI-   W1 -1-1 --T-    IL                                   FS(F0  AF:FAA;  F0aF  0102-AF'FT1-''AOA E;0-
-  FAOO FOE'  F0(rr'?,rO-Ourl;6O-.drA~~~~~~TI
a;O;CFF   ElF lAF  1FAU PAP  FE,F-O -AEA0'r:  AlFA:A;F2;ddSrF.0AAFFFAAThFFSAAAAEAdlPF-SA'FIFOF
- A;rAFF9'-   (FT(F'IA   0, TuES  APAA   EFZAFAFEIAFIF;                                PAAFFr;                               T-SaE   AOAASP PEF  IFFIEaFTAJ AFAE  5S
rl:.                                                                                                        WET O9prA'51FOOSAOFl?FSS   (EF((A;  F  '-A
EFO F; SEASAAAFAA  PAF(-AAO   ;?IFEFSSF Fod FEll uAFEAaPFA;;SAIA1AAr Uo  -lOO   AA  AFA                   SOA-(A(EFAFF   r  AAAu(  `EpalO.S
--P;;F        ...;(F .....Fu   PErTA  AIASTFT F    AAS.dA. r(FWE(((  PAAF06006   FAA-PT1                                                          ;' 0ASFI  ldI IFSo
-  o                            I..AOO4ql                 . ,,I                                     p.. r;aqA-F;O:s(;l ;FSF0A1EF.rAO 0qFAI(EAIEAOA(A'EFEOC    AFr-rL0  ;sArtA"5rrAlAF 't.
EAOFAOTFOa;;FJ5p;SOArO  ;AFF FAESAAOSAOA; AC OU TFUllo PAPDN  I'lI,   P,09 '-T6   !I                            060 -7d   0(01 'oF-   -A
SalS?PSIFuFIFAJr   IFSEPAEF;FF'-aa                   FFP,PF('ASIE.-AOPEASFATV ...,a ....                              F  .)FAO
TSIC   FY' ;SAC    a;;f                                                           FE;(6WES06             A"9        SI(FA   ro
AEFOFAE0APAS(1ISFEEO  F;PIIF'AA06T-I;rFF9-TS    AA-SA(EOUA01);   OAA                                   PA.,PEFFA,-dIIAC   aAdAFS9FIFSF?FF;AFC "I.SF
A-T-d-   --?I IT'                           SOO:SISFSPAFFA                               ESF(IFFISATI ArS?FYrS);A_AAS                                         1a]SIFI
F   FA...A . SEA  FAr' (AFEEFE'FEFA SEA;- ,0I P-f:EFFS -   I       AAA1EJ                       pAEFSa        PE;AI       P 50?  9PiT9   ll  A1  lAWpS. r AA; ddIAS'I
I.AAOES ...E..               r___ a   SS;           Ar  91FA    (1    9!PF  SFF  0SA                                    __EAPIA  ESAAISF d*p  T-9j ---S --a-WCI
-;C;AAF;SF   T1 -I   E9E;FF  a;SsS; PAWES 'ISF0'  (                    -  IaI                        -SIIF -F1010 POO VITTT P`5;IpESFaFEF  T,IIFIOAPFE                   P.
_1 0 .  W,                        ~~       ~~~~~'SA     090    dIS 01'01'ES ((1FFAol, '9190;;o    I9S
FESO D901 FAF 0(01 '0961 'SESPr      OISIFAt; 'FT pFFA  d                                     SSF( SETAd_OO S-; ;AA- *TITFFO-          FOA
'SEFr.F9 S FFF   .        PFOST    ...S I   I  AI__A    aFrS;;F    'ST9SS9I aSPPr 2T-00  AC1
;rAaFF'AOSA((EEO  P~~''F-  APE; 150 FAFFFO IaAP)ASPFEAE0 l?OAArSFP,1D   WOAF?"A9AF) ISA (OFSFAA-I(( I..(.V.          1 SET dPP- D dAA. FAr....  FFr6W )FAp;-
'9555 5 SaFE  aIr; ESSa' AF SISSAAF AF Al ,,A(F5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, 59 FE                    F((IIFJA   000 ((CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'T  W :
PES(S0 -FIA'SSAI     asP         So; PAFAS    T  -AIESJ   6ESP OFaFAC--PF-A--P;11,F(;~.I  
15;; P0(5(5  sF;S;E(a  ',,ASIISYPO  SSISSA;;SAPA P   T1;-p.  r(rdE-l 0                                                        AFFA d,r I.d -F -SFF  -aJS? lr
-JOSSJAFAESFF      1F1S1AFA   SPFO 4     51T  AFEFF0d AE-I-AAaOOAF1S ;TFOoF;   S   E4  SPA  ,0;SO   Faopp;r
AOF(E F  515SAS  11FE (; EAES9PA   SI~SlSA  01PJFE1AFFEO0(                      OEAaS A  SIFFPAST     IFFF  FS9JSS A  AFAIS, *'SI   SE7EFS6 ((ST
-F0 SOpI (PSiAr;AS;OAEF  F FASSFCAA9 50 011F PA-I (5009SFPO( S.SSFP.FJ0                                                    '16(  091   9W  '(IT'(961 -_ APOrdr-
AOEFS 550500 SaP  ASS FES? A - (A;FF;OAad  FATPSTF;E  aSO  SAF'1 ASAFF                                                 (-(1PP   ;0            '(90961   r  Ar9
. .7   ITS   ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ '00(1N'0-(9.1 0.-06  (A;AF.                      FFF  a
ESFr  F5 SF~ A      P.!S FF;S;AEAFA F;rpr(- FF  90-'       - SSPAAAFASF-P,. SaF  P.......  9FAFA  EPFAE -   T-EF   - (PSS--SA  -A F  FFFA  FF`  I2
IaE;Aa PAS PS;; FE F(9S) SaTF0F SESaaEI1 - I EASISA   SES; A;SISF(1  EIFPO                                             'PESE, ,- (9601I ' 1FF0 '01 010 '0966 1 FF-EI
ISAFIE?;EC-UaSPAFOSF  IA' aoa;Aa0   EA~~~-TS.;0AaId-FIP)F         Edr  -SFFFPl);      ~      -- (01  AF-F99  PI.F .... CA  o9r IP0-PIA-  '0 I IFA   -
Iq p.pjTP  T .. . I   .W F WF1;Ea                  5)                            10  ..FT                          T;F,  U,0FoIr;  0~
A; (SESSS SaF  EPAFFOaAFSpAFSSAAO;   555,;CASaAI. AI'ArI:,     Sr'p  0025
oAr   SA6AFAE;'  OFASA   I;;FAAF TIFFA;Fo'(ASAF  FFIFaAAOEp;dFdAAFF;055 F);?AFA -,(  ,,AFFT,T  r;FlOrd A-A9EEFISE
-.OAE.aESI.,AdV,AF4V-EoE           dIAAFE-r 'T1-EW7AFft'1 JWPI                                                                                            6-SSA-IFAF( ~
1 SFAESF  P E90r  - ~FF0 PS FFF   iAr  -I FA;SAA,AE'r                    -F?;ASAFF  FSaAEo;FS;  0 56;Ap ETETSA-  F  'OCT')AF(A
SO F (FF900 (Fl061(0 POE aFF- ArF06Sr59>   F5aO1                             O;;OF   T;A   O6PAFSS                  59  FA5>   'ES(F    rpE                 S
EASAaC 01 FAFA  A   FAS  ;FAa ACESAFa  SSSF6A  001  SSFEAEF0                     *?  SF6  ACEPF EA  ASFF6SES  )UI''E;?FI(I -E).SO.OI                  AFI
(10F    a;a   rS  SF   AA;6   C   SS;PFE.SAA;E0SS (T    SFSS   FEFFAEE;A;   r(FOFS);a    I
'9  p5 S  S('17 SFFOA (AT 5F;AITF  SP (OlS(  T                                             C         I( ...SEP AT'-F--   aSE;,1-           IT SA;;   --1*10  - Sl  A:F
p-.IP;FAF    r  Sd 'AAA( 91       S  EP T--       ESP;IF .IaFAIFSFFE   SF A-'F5-T5; E-0let S-SS  OA
E(SF   pA  5(0   (E>  S0AraTSE;  FE  1St IFEE -6 FFF  ISO6A                      SnT?AFES F I          SA)AI    FF-10)  -IFT-- F;S5t7-  FAI0FEE010;IF
11  _I~~~~I T" III .,,~~~~~~~d       I-'EFSWFFAST SEFFd I                          A     ...TS   F.SA Pu?I  .S5  SFAr.FA  FA   F 1 
17-9 P-SP I-IIT,14 ~ ~   ~      ~     ~      56a5  PS;AFIAAr                 SFSST-(ES; SAOE  E S;ad.;dSSSa 06 ;-ATA; SaE SVaIA   F;A;(ra
'SPFF   SOSIT'"SAF p--TFAEFEE PSF61 F-'P     090  -0 ((1'96IEETFIr 0PF
A;  FpF;A(59  F0   n a  AnASSFI  r EPJS9     515 FSt  l 50 9F                     SSP  r AT 1FSF~FrI SF'  65  SEaPFFAF(F  FFTEl I(F  AAASPT 
SAFAO   A;o  S?5  95(IPTPI  FIFA  PF  ES SC  PA9SVIF                    01FFA(  SAAFF611  60"                       ....-( ..A . I F5VPFUIE'FAAAP
OFASl(0    096  FF  0(1 '96'1  ;-  S,-IPSFE   FF-Pl- II'AI'lII0ATT"                          r
A",7"                                                    11 111, . T Tq11:.1I,1-d~~~~~~1111(1>'10(  00  0(0200
.1 . II . II.d .  ---bI.  9   0  SIFSF  SIAE A; P?PIF.P SIPT?.ESP., SrA
-FSCAA? AFF1FFA-A6 ~~FFE 0 (Fl);? l(AS'SF0P6TP  'PEOFF ' EASFSTSSS FSE6P                                                                   'P0S1 0961 0EEr  I '((61
(05 IPE6ASF); PS5T ;5]AEEF  PAF ISASFEF SFSA6A A Nm  ETISPE Al EI6PTTSAF  A (FFaFSAEd Ar A;TASA6F PISSA  PESO'9 5SI AT T.EFA;(-P(... (F )  FSIFSA  - - PIOTI AOi AF-
ISaEAS0  IOAESFAFF1OSISEA1650006 PSOOIE IIAOA 9;  'AS9A  '70F   FF61   SASASFFF;AI   EP SEA  FF11SF6SlArU  SlA  S          OK,AS  6FAF-IPFO
(S()FEAS IAPAS0' F    -AS  (TFr Sap *SSSASAS.d *64A6FF  F   FEFF 1SF WFSS1                       SA6 ESI0 A -7  P)E     :I1,IFAF   6  56F1 S1  FTPFFS
PEO  A AT I9PFFF39   0  PAAPEFSApIAPO   FAF  SAFFF    0SSEFCS,S  l] 'AEFTPIPo   FFSEP5(   OFSPTSSEd_0)A   (  (6al.
FPF.,        AFP  A    ES6IOF'AFS?)F FS-F TP PE9IEP   FIFFFF   SEP ESSaSA   590 ISSTP  -FFaS EF WaES  SA(  (1 '(SIFII'I ?AP(F-_I6F
AFAEAFFSIFIAP   905T,_1  516016: IPSTF   SA   596S90. 55?FESSSFFP-d     PFFI91,                                                           rSISP(SFF:060F   AE
F -I1 AFE00r  S-;E  FF  SFAAI ESEFAS9E9SS9T   AFSAF?A (                                F1AFF         SQSS(  rOFlAAF    P   'F  n!                ) SAP SOlE-d!096 SFSAF,   59
'*SI A01FE  AS?F E9  EEASAS'TP AF055 FTSAEF EPaSS-AIPAFdPA,  S5 IF ES-APFT--    EFES9S(AP..EaF..6.. ...F.IF(SS
-PF  'a   SS   90 'EP  (E  EESI AAlS1AF'F T-ElPAqP)!EIFAEPP.FTOAFV ST_SASSF  S5   9FFFSSSFF   IFIIF(ATPATS
-P..FFE   3  A;   5F   E  0  FFI   IFSF ..FF IS.                     ESS0S    FF?FS10pSp(~  SS.   EAP                            a   ua   A IdIP  SSqE  yFIFPEE0IT    j*F,,
1  o       St                                                10(601PFD-Aluuuxgn
I_;NA                                                                      - _- 'Idl 4,.                                                              - d-dI



ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA                                                                    Pag  4  f 4
GNP PER CAPITA;  US$280 (1981)  1/
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1978    1979        1980          1981
(Million So. Sb)                                   MONEY, CREDITS AND PRICES
Total Revenue                                       890     1420    1526        1421          2347                                                              Dec.      Dec.       Dec.      Dec.          Dec.
Current Expenditure                                802      1362     1573      1618           2795                                                              1977      1978       1979      1980          1981
Current Surplus or Deficit (-)                       88       58      -47      -197           -448                                                                   (Mi lion So. Sh.)
Other Expenditures2/                               820      1010    1671       1440
Overall Deficit                                     732      952     1718      1637             ..                    Bank Claims on Government (Net)    -97.8           311.1    1,231.3    1,902.4       2,249.6
Bank Claims on Private Sector
and Public Enterprises              1,280.7  1,404.6    1,725.8   1,977.2          2,296.0
Money Supply                          1,325.1  1,728.0   2,335.2   2,783.2    3,674.0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
1977     1978    1979 3/  1980            1981
(Million IS Dollars)             (Provisional)               General Price Index (1977=100)           100.0     110.0      136.2        217.1        313.2
Annual Percentage Change in:
Merchandise Exporta (f.n.b.)                      71.3   109.5   106.0    133.3              111.9                      General Price Tnden                      9.8      10.(       23.8         59.4         44.3
Merchadise Imports (c.i.f.)3/                   -206.0  -275.2  -394.1    -461.5            -323.3                    Bank Claims on Private Sector
Trade Balance                                   -134.7  -165.7  -288.1   -328.2             -211.4                      and Public Enterprises                  29.8       9.7       22.9         14.6         16.1
Money Supply                              33.2      30.4       35.1         19.2        32.0
Services, Net                                     -6.5    -4.8   -11.7         -7.9           -8.2
Private Transfers, Net                            13.1      78.1     35.9      57.3           32.2                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Current Account Balance                         -128.1   -92.4  -263.9   -278.8             -187.4
Direct Investment                                   7.8      0.3      -          -               -                                                            Average 1977-79                1980                     1981
Official Grant Aid                               105.9    27.8    58.1        142.6           64.4                                                            USS Mln.        %        USS Min.        %          US$ M.    Z
M4LT Capital (Net)                                71.8    78.8    87.6         86.9              -                    Livestock                                 71.2        74.5         101.6         76.2          97.7      87.3
Credit from IMF                                    -          -        -        4.2           34.1                    Bananas                                    9.8       10.3            8.1          6.1           6.0       5.4
Short-Term Capital and                                                                                                Meat and Meat Products                     2.1         2.2           1.0         0.7            0.3       0.3
Errors and Omissions                            -3.8      6.9     15.7       25.8           50.7                    lides and Skins                            5.8        6.0           6.6          5.0           2.0        1.7
Pish and Fish Products                     1.5         1.6          0.3          0.2            1.0       0.9
Others                                     5.2         5.4          15.6        11.7            4.9       4.4
International Reserves (end year)                120.0   126.3    43.8         14.6           30.7
Total                                     95.6      100.0           133.3      100.0         121.9      100.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From 1973 to June 1981 -  US$1.00=6.295                                                                         EXTERNAL DEBT
USS Mln.
From July 1, 1981, Somalia had a dual exchange rate:
US$1.00 = 6.295 (for essential imports)                                                                 Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1981)4/            1,346.2
USSI.O0  - 12.59 (all other foreign transactions)                                                         (of which disbursed)                    (906.9)
From July 1, 1982         -  US$1.00=15.22 (unified)                                                            DEBT SERVICE RATIO                         %
Public Debt 1980 (estimate)               20.0
(inc. arrears~)
IDA LENDING (November 30, 1985)          IS$ Mln.
Outstanding and Disbursed                 104.7
Uod isbursed                               64.0
Outstanding inc. Undisbursed             168.7
J.nuu-'. 1983
1/  Based on tentative estimates of National Accounts recently prepared by the Bank staff.
2/ Includes mainly development expenditure largely financed from external assistance.
3/ The import data for 1978 and 1979 include (but for previous years exclude) Franco Valuta imports.
4/ Excludes undisbursed commitments from East European countries, totalling US$154 million,
which are not expected to be disbursed any further.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1982)- Expressed in US $
(US$ Million)
Amount Undisbursed
(net of cancellations
No.    Year   Borrower              Borrower             and exchange adjustments)
Nine credits fully disbursed                                    57.6
623-S0  1976   Somalia            Drought Rehabilitation         8.0        1.44
635-S0  1976   Somalia            North-West Agriculture        10.0        2.66
698-S0  1977   Somalia            Somali Development Bank        5.0        0.61
699-S0  1977   Somalia            Third Highway
(Hargeisa-Borama)             7.0        3.00
738-SO  1977   Somalia            Third Education                8.0       3.75
821-SO  1978   Somalia            Technical Assistance           3.0        2.03
822-S0  1978   Somalia            Mogadishu Water Supply         6.0        0.08
838-SO  1978   Somalia            Fourth Port                    5.5        1.43
905-SO  1979   Somalia            Agriculture Extension         10.5        8.64
906-SO  1979   Somalia            Central Rangelands             8.0        5.76
972-S0  1979   Somalia            Bay Agriculture               12.0       10.69
1043-SO 1980   Somalia            Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      6.0       3.29
1105-S0 1981   Somalia            Fourth Education               8.6 1/    8.58
1236-SO 1982   Somalia            Second Mog. Water Supply    14.5 1/   12.00
Total                        169.7      63.96
of which has been repaid       1.0
Total now held by IDA        168.7
1/ Credits approved in SDRs; principal and undisbursed amounts expressed in US
dollars equivalent, computed at the November 30, 1982 rate.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investment
(As of November 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year              Obligor                               Loan    Equity    Total
1981               Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.              0.375     -         0.375
Total gross commitments              0.375      -         0.375
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                  0.054      -         0.054
Total now held by IFC                0.321                0.321



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1/
(As of November 30, 1982)
Credit No. 623:   Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The Project, conceived during the 1973/74 drought emergency, was not
adequately prepared. As a result, and following an agreement in 1980 between
the Government and the Association, project activities are restricted to: (i)
dryland farming trials, in Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale; (ii) an overseas
training program; and (iii) assistance to the Ministry of National Planning
(Project Implementation Unit). The trials program is designed to establish
the technical viability of mechanized rainfed farming in the settlement areas
of Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale. The data gathered so far indicate that a
technique appears in sight for food crops production on a regular basis in
this part of Somalia. However, before a viable investment project could be
proposed, more preliminary work is required. The Government, therefore,
proposed, with the strong support of the April 1982 IDA supervision mission,
that the trials be extended over three more seasons. The Association has
agreed to extend the Closing Date to June 30, 1984.
Credit No. 635:   North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 29 1984.
Physical progress has improved recently. The field bunding program
and the construction of livestock water points are both ahead of schedule.
However, field utilization and production data have yet to be collected, and
applied research and extension are deficient due to lack of water. The
arrival of the Financial Controller and the Project Planner should improve
performance, especially as regards bottlerecks of supplies, materials, fuels,
seeds and other farm inputs. External training is being organized and test
drilling is progressing. A feasibility study for Stage II is being prepared.
1/ These notes are designed to give information regarding the progress of
projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are
being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should
be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit No. 698:   Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
SDB's volume of operations and also disbursements under the IDA Credit
to date was slower than projected due mainly to the poor climate for
industrial investment in Somalia. SDB has now committed up to 95% of the
Credit and has requested IDA to consider making a second line of credit
available to it . Implementation of the technical assistance component of the
Project, including training of Somali staff, is progressing.
Credit No. 699:   Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983.
Construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road started in Novenber
1978, but came to a standstill in August 1980 following an air raid in the
project area. Only 56 km. of road from Hargeisa had been completed. At the
contractor-s request, the Government terminated his contract as of December
27, 1980. The Government has invited bids from other contractors (local or
foreign) operating in Somalia to complete the road.  Since the road had been
completed to a point 13 km. short of a large town, Nabadid, the Association
has informed the Government that it would continue participating in completing
the road up to Nabadid, using the balance of uncommitted funds (about US$2
million) for civil works.
Credit No. 738:   Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
The buildings for the Health Personnel Training Center are under
construction and have reached 60% completion. Technical assistance was
recruited for the manpower survey and for the National Trade-Testing Center.
The manpower survey was completed. Nine Somalis have almost completed studies
abroad in curriculum development. The technical and accountancy sections of
the Project Unit are adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 821:   Technical Assistance Project; $3 million Credit of June 30,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 1, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Several sub-projects have been approved by IDA, and overall progress
is satisfactory.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 822:   Mogadishu Water Supply Project; $6 million Credit of June
30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 2, 1979; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982.
The Technical Operations Advisor and the Financial Advisor were
appointed in 1979, accounting and tariff consultants have completed their
assignments, and the work of training consultants is underway. The findings
of the water resource investigations, which were completed late in 1979, have
resulted in a change in the site of the wellfield constructed under the
project. The three main contracts are now approaching completion. A cost
overrun of about $7.0 million, which the Government has agreed to finance, is
projected, largely due to slippage, the change in site of the wellfield and
provision for a transmission main of increased capacity.
Credit No. 838:   Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of August 23, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness:  June 27, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
As a result of much higher bids received for construction of the
tanker terminal than appraisal estimate, the Government requested, and the
Association has agreed in March 1981, that the project be revised. One new
berth and additional general cargo capacity at Berth No. 3 result from the
revised project as compared with one tanker berth that was to be provided
under the initial project. The Closing Date has been extended from June 30,
1981 to December 31, 1983.
Credit No. 905:   Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project;
$10.5 million Credit of May 10, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
August 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although Project start-up was delayed by about one year due to a delay
in credit effectiveness, it is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, the
last supervision mission was concerned with the effectiveness of the extension
and research strategies, which need increasing attention during the next
supervision mission.
Credit No. 906:   Central Rangelands Development Project; $8 million Credit of
May 10, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
In spite of certain positive aspects, the project has experienced
serious slippage through earlier delays in appointment of the consultants to
implement the key Range and Water Development component, and through current
delays in appointment of key staff for the Forestry, Veterinary and
Maintenance Service components. The insecurity problem in the project area
has not improved, and requires to be kept under close review.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 972:   Bay Region Agricultural Development Project; $12 million
Credit of December 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
September 12, 1980; Closing Date:  March 31, 1987.
With a few months delay in credit effectiveness, Project start-up is
now proceeding satisfactorily. Continued satisfactory progress will depend on
Project management s ability to secure the cooperation of other Government
entities operating in the Bay Region. Other issues of concern are (i) provi-
sion of adequate and timely technical assistance financed by co-financiers;
(ii) availability of qualified Somalis to work in the Project Management Unit;
and (iii) delays in procurement of equipment.
Credit No. 1043: Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; $6 million Credit
of November 7, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:  April 30, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The Project is supporting the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve its planning of the energy
sector. Exploration consultants started their work in the field in June
1981. The technical, legal and energy planning assistance components of the
project have progressed satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1105: Fourth Education Project; $10.2 million Credit of April 17,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987.
The project is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of
teaching in primary and secondary schools by upgrading facilities for the
pre-service and in-service training of teachers, and to provide more equitable
opportunities for secondary education in rural areas; also, the project is
helping to alleviate the shortage of skilled personnel. Local staff for the
Project Implementation Unit are in post and recruitment of experts under the
technical assistance component is underway. Difficulties in timely obtaining
building materials and equipment may be a delaying factor in project
implementation.
Credit No. 1236:  Second Mogadishu Water Supply Project; $15 million Credit of
May 26, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: October 12, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The Project would provide Mogadishu with reliable supplies of safe
water, eliminate present water shortages and satisfy the city's future growth
in water demand until 1987. Efforts made under the first project to
strengthen the Mogadishu Water Agency as an institution through training,
consultancy and advisory services will be continued under the present project.



- 30 -
Annex III
SOMALIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1.    Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Identification:                      March 1979
(b)  Time taken to prepare project:    Nine months
(c)  Preparation by:                      Government and Consultants
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                   May 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations:          December 16, 1982
(f)  Planned date for Credit
Effectiveness                       June 1983
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III.  Special Conditions
(a)  Pending recommendations of the road maintenance study on the
requirement of recurrent funds, the budgetary allocation for
road maintenance for 1984 will be at least So.Sh. 20 million
in 1983 prices, and that by September 1 of each year up to
and including 1987, the Government shall review with the
Association the budgetary requirements and the proposed
budgetary allocation for road maintenance for the following
budget year (para. 53);
(b)  The findings and recommendations of the road maintenance
study will be reviewed with the Association and, within six
months upon completion of this study, a plan of action to
implement the recommendations of such study be prepared and
submitted to the Association for its approval (para. 53); and
(c)  Additional newly graduated civil engineers will be assigned
:o CED annually, commencing in 1983, so that CED shall employ
at least 10 additl3nal Aivil engineers by the completion of
the project (para. 54).
Section IV.   Additional Condition of Effectir'ne;s
All conditions precedent to initial disbursements under the Arab
Fund Loan Agreement have been satisfied (para. 58).



IBRD I 5924R
JANUARY 198B
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
DJIBOUTI                                             Gulf   of   Aden
>~~~~~tOT                                                                                        tBLJl 
'k--  _~yodo                                                                Candolao1
Boroma    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Aoo  oss
TU   jSy              AApi  v''                                                                          S~
Gr~w.torrm E4_x0Caz rs Surfa ce
CorsstructioM
Sng8heninog\ & Im\                                     t---- -emer* 
~~~\alhe Majori-\Is Pot
Rivers                                               ,
Tugionat awido   rae
-. -  Internatsanal BeounrdoaGro                                                                             orBait
MRMARY AND SE.CONDARY ROADS'                           5      i7oa  
- Grator Er SWraoge         -                                                                Ei
PREWfOQS BANK HIGHWAY PROJECTS                                                              y 
CwrrKtion/                                                                          
- -fem"iXty Studies & DetaNied Ernginsering                              /                     / 
FOLtIT HtGHWAY PROJECT                                      /    GW yo)/
-  trerithening  &                                                             0r0p02ve0mnt                2    300
4o   A*r Ports                                                ^     .                   /                 \
Do estic Airfields                                                                                        ARABIA
*  intomotiol Airpets                               .n   J        L -             
Rivers                                                                                                              OM,  4
---D;sftit Boondrwis             9,                     jDusa Moreb      '          >
-+ Rogionol Boundrries                       /                                   7     bieo
- -InterrWionol B;oumdaries              %QFr Fe                          I --s         
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
KILOMETERS             YtE~?
W  Ilbo  'ee         -ef                 aBltend                                                             GUf 0bE  Bur
+,  l SmaO                           SOMALIA '                           I
Joadw or                                        KEN
VI~~~~~~~n  etn~~iVINOCA
r4~                                                      TANre\ZANIA3GADISHU
| M16D6lE S@f                                    nnt~frER?> OGDSUA.                                      SAUDI ARtABIA        i
Xe W            t      u        g      lu~ugurr'                                          SU                   DA              :
i   fo                      SOMALIA                                   >   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e T H I O P I A    /7 
CGobsrlayl>               fOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT    is_tXwo
\   \/    ,/                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Road Network                   fn KENYA j 
.    /                                                         @   \ >    /    /~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDIAN  OCEAN
,/                   ~~~~~~~44t                                       48'      TA NZAN I A
E ~ ~~~~~                                                                               ~        ~~~~~~ I ,  l



