OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1324 SO
YOUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated       aA.C-                 , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1324 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   I Q1Lt    %              , 1983, between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called Arab Fund) a
loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount equiva-
lent to sixteen million three hundred thousand United States
dollars (US$16,300,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Arab Fund.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development   Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreenent, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the term "CED" means
the Civil Engineering Department within the Borrower's Ministry
of Public Works and Housing.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The    Association  agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreemnat set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-one million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount- of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association 8hall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. The commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on January I and July 1 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Janu-
ary 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1993, and ending January 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installmeat payable
on Janury 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Seccion 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through CED with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the super-
vision of the works to be carried out under Part A of the Project
and in order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B
through D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
and experts, including a road maintenance engineer, a design/
construction engineer, a road maintenance superintendent, two
workshop superintendents and an administrative and financial
officer, whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants and experts to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the P-roject, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report (Project Completion Report), of such


﻿-5-
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance  by  the   Borrower  and  the  Association  of   their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out of Part A of the Project and shall
furnish to the Association, promptly. after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) review with the Asso-
ciation the findings and recommendations of the road maintenance
study to be carried out under Part B of the Project; and- (ii)
within six months, upon completion of the road maintenance study,
prepare and submit to the Association 2or its approval a plan of
action to implement the recommendations of such study.
Section 3.07. By October 31, 1983, the Borrower shall
appoint a counterpart staff member to each of the road main-
tenance engineer, the design/construction engineer, the       road
maintenance superintendent, the two workshop superintendents and
the administrative and financial officer. The qualifications and
experience of such counterparts shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare lists of the
materials, equipment, spare parts and tools needed to carry out
Part D of the Project and submit such lists to the Association
for its approval, well before inviting price quotations for such
goods.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain through CED
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices,
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Starting in 1983 and until completion of the
Project, the Borrower shall, annually, recruit for CED additional
newly graduated civil engineers, so that CED shall employ at
least ten additional civil engineers by the completion of the
Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause its highway
system to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound
engineering practices and shall provide funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower
shall make budgetary allocations for road maintenance for 1984 of
not less than 20 million Somali Shillings (So.Sh.20,000,000) in
1983 prices.
(c) By September 1 of each year up to and including 1987,
the Borrower shall review with the Association the budgetary
requirements and the proposed budgetary allocation for road
maintenance for the next following budget year.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that all road
maintenance staff and equipment of its Ministry of Public Works
shall not be diverted to uses other than road maintenance.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of the
vehicles using its highways and bridges do not exceed limits
consistent with the design standards of such highways and
bridges.
Section 4.06. By June 30, 1984, the Borrower shall submit to
the Association for its approval a training program for the CED's


﻿-7-
highways staff; such training program shall include any arrange-
ments planned to be made with local technical institutions.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Arab Fund Loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of part of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Arab Fund Loan
Agreement, or
(ii) the Arab Fund Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions namely, that the Arab Fund Loan Agreement has been


﻿-8-
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Arab Fund and all
conditions (if any) precedent to initial disbursements under the
Arab Fund Loan Agreement, other than fulfillment of the condi-
tions precedent to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
satisfied.
Section 6.02. The date     O"t Cl )9,93           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic
Mogadishu, Somalia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               13,890,000      50%
(2) Consultants'
services:
(a) for super-              560,000      50%
vision of
Part A of
the Project
(b) under Parts B         1,480,000     .90%
and C of the
Project
(3) Materials and
equipment under
Part D of the
Project:                    420,000
(a) procured inter-                      100% of foreign
nationally                          expenditures
(b) procured                             90% of local
locally                             expenditures
(4) Unallocated                5,050,000
TOTAL          21,400,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement. percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of
the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any .Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 12 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower,  cancel  such  amount  of  the   Credit  as,  in  the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Strengthening and improvement of the Afgoi-Baidoa Road
(216 km) in accordance with the general design standards set out
in the Annex to this Schedule.
Part B:
A study to review the current status of road maintenance of
the Borrower and to make recommendations for the improvement of
the Borrower's road maintenance planning, organization and opera-
tions.
Part C:
Improvement of CED's highway planning and operations, in-
cluding training of CED's highways staff.
Part D:
The carrying out of urgent road maintenance works.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 14 -
Annex to Schedule 2
General Design Standards for the Afgoi-Baidoa Road
Design speed               80-100 km/hr
Roadway width              9.5 meters
Carriageway width          6.5 meters
Shoulder width             1.5 meters (on either side)
Minimum horizontal curve   300 meters
radius
Maximum vertical gradient 6%
Minimum vertical curve     20,000 meters (convex)
radius                   10,000 meters (concave)
Road crossfall:
(a) Carriageway       3%
(b) Shoulders         5%


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Civil works shall be procured under unit ptice contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For works to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part 1 of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods shall be procured on the basis of responsive quota-
tions from at least four reliable suppliers eligible for procure-
ment under the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods will be entered into
only after the Association has approved the respective list of
goods to be purchased under any of such contracts pursuant to
Section 3.08 of this Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to the contracts for civil works, before
bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder or supplier to
which it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time tor its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective quotations,


﻿- 17 -
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the literna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of ___      ,
198 ,  .
FOR SECRETARY


