Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7294-AZ 
 
Guarantee Agreement 
 
(Power Transmission Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 8, 2005  
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER7294-AZ 
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 8, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF 
AZERBAIJAN (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Azerenerji (the Borrower), having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of forty-
eight million dollars ($48,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan 
Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE II 
Guarantee; Provision of Funds 
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, 
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due 
and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and 
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual performance of all 
the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to 
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the 
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures. 
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide annual financial and/or in-kind 
contribution to the Borrower in order to enable it to carry out its operations with due 
diligence and efficiency and meet its obligations under the Loan Agreement, in particular, 
those stipulated in Sections 4.03 and 4.04 thereof. 
Section 2.04.  The Guarantor shall: 
(a) 
by July 31, 2005, develop a medium-term tariff policy, satisfactory to the 
Bank, which shall enable the Borrower to achieve full cost recovery of its operations no 
later than December 31, 2010; and 
(b) 
thereafter, implement the above tariff policy in accordance with its 
defined  timetable. 
ARTICLE III 
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses 
Section 3.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  4
3
Section 3.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Guarantor: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
83
Samed Vurgun Street 
 
Baku AZ1022 
 
Republic of Azerbaijan 
 
Telex:142116 BNKSL   
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  5
4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Baku, Republic of Azerbaijan, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN 
 
By /s/ Avaz Akbar oglu Alakbarov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/  Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
