                                           Document of
                                       The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNO:31485-AZ




                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                       PROPOSEDLOAN

                           INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$48MILLION

                                               TO

                                          AZERENERJI

            WITHTHE GUARANTEEOFTHE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

                                              FOR A

                             POWERTRANSMISSIONPROJECT

                                          MAY 17,2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2005)
                            Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
                                  1Manat = US$0.0002
                                    US$1 = 4852Manat

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   - December31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCC      Backup Control Center (for dispatch of electricity)
EBRD     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
EMS      Energy Management System-advanced generation and transmission network management
         programs operating through the SCADA system
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
FSU      Former Soviet Union
Hv       HighVoltage
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      International Development Association
IDP      Internally DisplacedPerson
IF1      InternationalFinancial Institution
ISDS     Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
JBIC     JapanBank for InternationalCooperation
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MDG      MillenniumDevelopment Goal
MED      Ministry of Economic Development
ME       Ministry of Industry and Energy
NDC      National DispatchCenter
NPV      Net PresentValue
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCN      Project Concept Note
PID      Project InformationDocument
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PLC      Power Line Carrier -atype of power system telecommunications equipment
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RTU      Remote Terminal Unit- SCADA equipment installedat substations and generating plants
SCADA    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition -the computerized system for power generation
         and transmission network dispatch
SPPRED   State Program on Poverty Reductionand Economic Development

                          Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
             Country Managermirector:           D-M. Dowsett-Coirolo
                         Sector Manager:        Peter D.Thomson
                      Task Team Leader:         BiornHamso

                                                                                        FOROFTIClALUSEONLY


                                                          AZERBAIJAN
                                              PowerTransmissionProject

                                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page
   A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................  1
     1. Country and sector issues.................................................................................................... 1
     2. Rationale for Bank involvement.........................................................................................                       2
     3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                 3
   B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................    3
     1. Lending instrument ............................................................................................................. 3
     2. Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                3
     3. Project components ............................................................................................................. 4
     4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design............................................................                               5
     5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..............................................................                              6
   C IMPLEMENTATION
    .                                   ..........................................................................................................    7
     1. Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................                              7
     2. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults ..................................................................                                8
     3. Sustainability....................................................................................................................... 9
     4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              10
     5. Loan conditions and covenants.........................................................................................                        10
   D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                       .................................................................................................      11
     1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                         11
     2. Technical...........................................................................................................................          14
     3. Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 14
     4. Social.................................................................................................................................       15
     5. Environment......................................................................................................................             15
     6. Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................               16
     7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                         16


This documenthas a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipientsonly in
the performanceof their officialduties ts contents may notbe otherwisedisclosed
                                                                  .I
lwithoutWorld Bank authorization                          .

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background...................................................................................                17
Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank and other Agencies ..............................                                     33
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring..............................................................................                  34
Annex 4: DetailedProject Description.........................................................................................            38
Annex 5: Project Costs.................................................................................................................. 46
Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements......................................................................................               47
Annex 7: Financial Management andDisbursement Arrangements ............................................                                  48
Annex 8: Procurement ..................................................................................................................   55
Annex 9: Economic andFinancial Analysis .................................................................................                 59
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues...............................................................................................          81
Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision...........................................................................                  82
Annex 12: Carbon Finance Project...............................................................................................           83
Annex 13: Documents inthe Project File.....................................................................................               85
Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits ..................................................................................               86
Annex 15: Country at a Glance.....................................................................................................        88

                                        AZERBAIJAN

                             POWERTRANSMISSION PROJECT

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                               EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA
r                            Infrastructure and Energy Sector Unit

 Date: May 17,2005                               Team Leader: Bjom Hamso
 Country Director: D-M. Dowsett-Coirolo          Sectors: Power (100%)
 Sector Manager: Peter D.Thomson                 Themes: Infrastructure services for private
                                                 sector development (P);Regulation and
                                                 competition policy (P);Regional integration (S)
 Project ID: PO83341                            Environmental screening category: Partial
                                                 Assessment
 LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguard screening category: N o impact

 [XILoan     [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee   [ 3 Other:

 For Loans/Credits/Others:
 Total Bank financing (US$ million): 48.00




IRECONSTRUCTIONAND                         I                 I                I
 DEVELOPMENT
 Total:                                             7.87             47.53              55.40

 Borrower: Azerenerji (Open Type Joint Stock Company)




 FY                06            07           08             09           10             11
 Annual               9.11        19.42         14.50          4.50          0.47              0
 Ciimiilative         9.11        28.53         43.03         47.53         48.00

Project Implementation Period:                                       August 2005 -June 2010
ExpectedEffectiveness Date:                                          August 17,2005
Expected Closing Date:                                               December 31,20 10

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?          [ ]Yes [XI N o
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                            [ ]Yes [XI N o
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                           [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                           [ ]Yes [XI N o
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?             [x]Yes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?          [x]Yes [ ] N o
Project development objective
The primary objective of the project i s to improve the reliability, quality, and cost-effectiveness
of electricity supply in Azerbaijan by financing investments that improve the management and
performance o f the high-voltage transmission network.
Project description
A: Power System Management. Upgrade of the electricity dispatch system (SCADA, Energy
Management System, telecommunications, metering)
B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation. Rehabilitation of substations and power transmission
lines.
C: ManagementAssistance. Assistance to company management including assistanceto prepare
for a future restructured electricity sector.
D: Project Implementation. Assistance inproject management, procurement, training, other.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any?
The project triggers the environmental assessment safeguard. Initialenvironmental category
rating: B.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Board presentation: None
Loadcredit effectiveness: None
Covenants applicable to project implementation:
 a       The Guarantor (Republic of Azerbaijan) shall provide annual financial and/or in-lund
      contribution to the Borrower in order to enable it to carry out its operations with due
      diligence and efficiency and meet its obligations under the Loan Agreement.
 a       The Guarantor shall develop a medium-term tariff policy, satisfactory to the Bank, which
      shall enable the Borrower (Azerenerji) to achieve full cost recovery of its operations no later
     than December 31,2010.
 a       Azerenerji will maintain a current ratio of 1.2:1(ratio of current assets to current
      liabilities), and will refrain from incurring additional debt unless their current annual net
      revenue exceeds their maximum debt service requirement by a ratio of at least 1.5:1.
 a       Azerenerji will establish a local Project Account and will maintain a balance in this
      account not less than the expected local cofinancing requirements over the subsequent 3-
      month period.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsector issues

Since gaining independence from the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan has experienced many of the
same challenges as other CIS transition states. The country's problems were exacerbated,
however, by an armed conflict and a large population of refugees and Internally Displaced
Persons (IDPs). As a result, Azerbaijan i s today one of the seven lowest income countries of the
Europe and Central Asia Region, although its future holds tremendous promise because of
offshore oil and gas resources which it i s currently developing in partnership with the private
sector.

Azerbaijan has succeeded in achieving economic stabilization in recent years as a result of a
consistent program of fiscal restraint and prudent monetary policy. Oil and gas developments
proceed as planned, and GDP expanded by 10.6 percent in 2002 and 11.2 percent in 2003,
reflecting both sound policy adjustments and high oil prices.         However, oil production i s
expected to peak in 2010 and the Government will need to ensure diversified development of the
non-oil sector in order to generate jobs and promote income equity. Significant progress has
been made on governance and corruption issues in the years since 1999, although much remains
to be done to strengthen the business environment.

Poverty i s a serious concern, in part owing to the large numbers of IDPs (nearly a million people)
and in part to insufficient investment in labor-intensive sectors and supporting infrastructure.
About 47 percent of the population lived in poverty in 2002 and 9 percent lived in extreme
poverty. Azerbaijan's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) identifies six strategic pillars:
(i) enablingenvironmentforincome-generatingopportunities; (ii)
    an                                                                   macroeconomic stability;
(iii) of andequityinaccesstohealthandeducation; (iv) infrastructureimprovements
     quality
(including roads, utility services, and irrigation); (v) social protection reforms to serve the
vulnerable more effectively; and (vi) better conditions for refugees and IDPs. Azerbaijan i s
making progress in fighting poverty, and pensions and minimum wages were increased
significantly in 2004.

The power sector has performed poorly in the years since independence. Effective generation
capacity has shrunk due to insufficient funds for rehabilitation and capacity addition, and i s
currently inadequate to meet the domestic electricity demand. Many areas of the country receive
only a few hours of electricity per day.      System reliability i s poor, with frequent localized
outages and occasional widespread system failures. In addition, the sector i s far from financially
viable. Azerenerji (the state power generation and transmission company and beneficiary under
this proposed project) depends heavily on the State to provide financial support through payment
for power plant fuel (natural gas and mazut) and electricity imports. The underlying causes of
poor system performance are similar to those in other FSU countries: (i)      inadequate levels of
investment and maintenance, especially since independence; (ii)inadequate tariffs and
collections; and (iii)system designs originally optimized to function as part of a larger integrated
power supply network. The problems have been complicated in Azerbaijan by the war over
Nagomo-Karabakh. However, the power sector has seen significant investments from the


                                                  I

international financial institutions (IFIs) in recent years, and Azerenerji's financial dependence
on the State i s primarily a matter of political choices relating to the Government's tariff policy
and its privatization strategy for power distribution. In 2002, the Government reorganized the
power distribution networks into four regional companies and entered into long-term
management contracts with private companies (see details in Annex 1). To attract operators and
investors, the Government allowed the distributors to defer payments for a portion of the
electricity they purchase from Azerenerji while they are building up their end-user payment
collections. Payments from the distribution companies to Azerenerji are scheduled to reach 100
percent in 2010.

The delivery of affordable electricity and other utility services of acceptable quality is an
essential requirement in enhancing the living standards of the population. The Government has
established a strategy to address this need, as outlined inthe Letter of Development Policy (LDP)
for the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-I, 2005). This strategy has five components:


    0   Promoting increasedprivate participation inthe provision of utility services;
    0   Establishing a medium term tariff policy for Azerbaijan, which incorporates a transition
        to full cost recovery for utility service providers;
    0   Implementinginternational financial reporting standards, through the adoption and
        implementation of a new Accounting Law which will require, inter alia, that state-owned
        utilities adopt IFRS no later than January 1,2008;
    0   Creating an appropriate regulatory environment; initiallyby establishing an independent
        regulatory agency covering the electricity, gas, water, and wastewater sectors; and
    0   Strengthening competition through a new Competition Law.

The elements of the strategy outlined in the LDP are designed to support the Government's
vision of a financially viable and self-sustaining utilities sector which i s able to attract a
significant level of private sector participation, while providing efficient and cost effective
service to the population. Details of the LDP are provided in Attachment 1to Annex 1.

The Government, however, i s also fully cognizant of the need to ensure that utility services
provided to consumers within Azerbaijan are affordable. As the economy continues to expand,
the purchasing power of the population will continue to increase and, with it, the capacity to pay
higher prices for utility services. In addition, the development and implementation of a targeted
social safety net that i s now underway will ensure that the most vulnerable continue to be able to
afford essential utility services as prices rise towards, and eventually reach, full cost recovery
levels. Taking into account these considerations, the Government has taken the initial step of
increasing prices of gas and water supply as of January 1,2005, but has elected to defer increases
inelectricity tariffs until a later date.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Inthe present international and domestic environment, private sector funding is not available to
Azerbaijan on the scale needed for full rehabilitation of the power system. IFIs/donors (EBRD,
KfW,Islamic Development Bank, and JBIC) have provided, and continue to provide significant
funding to the sector for building new generation capacity and rehabilitating generation and



                                                    2

transmission, thereby remedying some of the neglect of the system over the last 20 years. Still,
some of the equipment in use i s more than 50 years old, and represents an ongoing risk to system
reliability. The Bank can not only help to fill the funding gap, but can also work with the
Government to achieve the structural, legal and regulatory framework needed to attract private
funding to the sector. The proposed project would complement sector reforms that are being
supported by the Bank's adjustment operations by providing needed investment in power
dispatch and transmission network rehabilitation. Transmission i s the backbone of the power
system, and the current lack of an adequate dispatch system i s both a risk to security of supply,
and a cause of inefficient operations. The Bank can offer extensive experience in the design and
implementation of transmission rehabilitation projects in FSU countries, with lessons that are
directly applicable to Azerbaijan.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The proposed project to rehabilitatethe power transmission system would contribute to the PRSP
inanumber of ways, most notably by:

     0  Improving the conditions for economic growth through more reliable electricity supply;

     0  Reducing the cost of electricity through improved technical and financial management of
        the transmission system; and

     0  Improving the basis for private participation in energy infrastructure development by
         upgrading the power transmission system to enable dispatch and transmission o f
         electricity consistent with contractual arrangements.
The project i s included in the Country Assistance Strategy investment program in the context of
improving access to services by reversing the decline in social services and infrastructure, which
i s one of the four strategic goals of the current CAS.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

Azerbaijan i s a "blend country" positioned to receive IDA credits as well as IBRDloans from the
Bank. With only limited IDA funding available, the Government has elected to provide IBRD
funding to the revenue-earning sector entity involved in this Power Transmission Project. The
proposed project would be a Specific Investment Loan under IBRD lending terms. Given the
importance of oil exports in defining the country's inflows of foreign currency, the Government
and Azerenerji have opted to have the loan denominated in U S dollars. Azerenerji has informed
the Bank that it would prefer a Fixed Spread Loan.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The primary objective o f the project i s to improve the efficiency of the power transmission
operation    in Azerbaijan       through    technical  and   institutional strengthening   of  the
generatiodtransmission utility. The project has as a secondary objective to contribute to
strengthening Azerenerji's financial position.


                                                    3

The key performance indicators that will be used to assess the fulfillment of the project's
development objectives are:


   0   Improved efficiency of fuel use per kWh of electricity generated through Economic
       Dispatch and reduced transmission losses.
   0   Improved reliability and quality of electricity supply with respect to frequency and
       duration of forced outages.
   0   Strengthened financial position (i.e. need for Govt. financial support reducedeliminated)
       as a consequence of (a) tariffs that increase over time to cover full costs, and (b)
       increased payment collections.

See quantitative targets and more details in Annex 3.

3. Projectcomponents

The components were selected on the basis of urgent needs of the power system and a division of
focus among IFIS, EBRD preparing a power generation project, and KfW financing
                     with
transmission components complementary to those to be financed by IBRD. The proposed
project has four components, as follows:

Component A: Power System Management (Cost: A proportion of US$50.6 million for
Components A and B)

The first project component includes investments to upgrade the electricity dispatch system in
the country, which in turn would support the reliable, secure and economic operation of the
electricity sector, and facilitate financial settlements in a future wholesale electricity market.
There are three main subcomponents (described in detail inAnnex 4):

    SCADA/EMS1 system: installation of hardware and software to enable real time acquisition
    of operational information from generating stations and HV transmission system substations,
    analysis and monitoring of the network status at the National Dispatch Center, and control
    and dispatch of the generating plants and the HV transmission system.

    Telecommunicationsnetwork upgrade: installation of communications equipment to meet
   the requirements of dispatch, metering, and Hv network operations and maintenance. It will
    also provide broadband communications facilities between major Azerenerji offices and
    generating plants to support improvements in Azerenerji financial management and
    administration.

   Stationadaptationandmetering: adaptation of generating plant and substation control and
   metering circuits and equipment to provide alarm, status, and metering inputs to the RTUs
    and accept control outputs from the RTUs. Fuel meters on each major thermal generating
   unitwill be providedfor economic dispatch.


 Supervisory Control and DataAcquisitionEnergy Management System


                                                  4

Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation (Cost: A proportion of US$50.6 million
for ComponentsA and B)

The second component would cover priority investments in rehabilitation of high voltage
transmission lines and selected high-voltage substations. The investments will enhance system
reliability and help protect valuable system assets from costly damage.          Subprojects were
selected based on priority and economic returns, and include increasing transformer capacity at
four HV substations, rehabilitation of 12 transmission line segments, and some low-cost
rehabilitation work on four additional substations. Details of the subprojects are provided in
Annex 4. Some of the subcomponents may change during project implementation subject to
additional studies and a changing system environment (deterioration of existing equipment or
emergence of system bottlenecks or weaknesses).

Component C: Management Assistance (US$3.6 million)

The third component will provide technical assistance (TA) to improve the management systems
of Azerenerji and prepare the company for a future restructuredenergy sector. The TA includes
 (1) assistanceinthe company's transition to International FinancialReporting Standards (IFRS);
 (2) related development of an integratedmanagement information system; (3) relatedrevaluation
of Azerenerji's assets; (4) company and project audits; (5) development of an updated Grid
Code; (6) transmission costing (as basis for separate transmission tariff); and (7) a transmission
network stability study. This component will also will provide TA to help Azerenerji ensure
efficient implementation of the project.      The subcomponents include (8) dispatch system
procurement support (started during project preparation); (9) project management and technical
 support; and (10) dispatch system training.

 ComponentD: Project Implementation (US$0.8million)

The fourth component will finance Incremental Operating Costs for the Project Implementation
 Unit (PIU). This subcomponent will be modest in size given that the PIU is part of the
 Azerenerji organization, with funding reserved for translation and interpretation work,
 incremental office equipment, international travel relevant to the project, and incremental office
 operating expenditures.

 The total project cost, including contingencies and fees, i s estimated at US$55.4 million. IBRD
 would provide a loan of US$48 million equivalent; the balance of US$7.4 million would be
 covered by local cofinancing (see Annex 5).

 4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

 The Bank has accumulated substantial experience in implementation of projects and
 understanding of the problems in the energy sector in Azerbaijan and in other countries in the
 region. The most important lesson i s that the priority problems include two closely inter-related
 issues: sector governance and financial performance of the electricity (energy) companies.
 These are, of course, complex problems with legal, regulatory, structural, economic, financial,



                                                 5

and technical aspects. Azerbaijan has only recently embarked on energy sector reform, and the
process of restructuring, legal and regulatory reform, and enhancement of utility financial
performance i s a progression which i s being supported by IDA adjustment operations (most
recently, the PRSC-I (2005)). The proposed project would complement these efforts with
needed investment in power system dispatch and transmission network rehabilitation. This
integration o f policy and investment support i s designed to maximize their combined effect on
the sector's financial position and sustainability of sector reforms.

Procurement design and management, bid evaluation, project management and implementation
coordination have been difficult challenges for borrowers in similar projects. To minimize these
challenges for Azerenerji and its PIU, the procurement strategy i s based on two-stage bidding
and a turnkey contract for the integrated dispatch system. Technical assistance by international
consultants i s also included to assist the PIU during project implementation and for capacity
buildingin operation of the new dispatch system and to enhance project sustainability.

Finally, until the financial performance of sector enterprises improves (which will in turn require
improvements in collections, tariffs, and social protection systems), the ability of the beneficiary
organization to co-finance projects i s limited. Recognizing that the improvements in financial
performance will develop only in parallel with the implementation of the reform program, local
financing contribution i s kept relatively low in order to reduce the risk of implementation delays.

5. Alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection

Consideration was given to whether the proposed financing of high-priority investments in
dispatch and Hv transmission represented the best approach at this stage in sector development.
The key alternatives considered, andthe reasons for their rejection, are as follows:

a   Finance investments in capacity expansion: Azerbaijan currently has a power supply deficit
    and imports power from Russia. Inthe longer term, economics are expected to drive the price
    of imports above the cost of local supply. A draft Government Power Sector Development
    Plan includes a number of investments that would increase capacity of both generation and
    transmission. At the same time, there are clear indications that the current system i s not
    being operated in an optimal fashion, due to constraints on existing components o f the
    transmission network, inadequate information on system performance, and lack o f
    mechanisms to balance the network in such a way as to maximize the capacity of existing
    facilities. As a result, before investing in additional capacity (which will undoubtedly be
    needed to accommodate projected load growth), it was decided that the first priority should
    be to optimize the use of the existing network and generating plants.

a   Finance investments in generation capacity rehabilitation. An EBRD project i s under
    preparation in this area, providing funding for the most critical and profitable generation
    rehabilitation. An additional IBRD lending operation would face issues of providing more
    electricity into a market characterized by high levels of non-payments and tariffs far below
    costs. This brings to the forefront the question of real demand at full price/full payment.
    Investments in the backbone transmission grid are to a lesser degree sensitive to this
    question.



                                                   6

0  Finance investments in energy eficiencyAoad management: Demand management is often
   accepted as the first course of action in addressing capacity deficits in the power system.
   However, while electricity i s in many cases used in an inefficient manner, this i s frequently
   attributable to shortages in the availability of natural gas which, based on both financial and
   economic considerations, i s the preferred fuel for many applications currently covered by the
   power sector, such as heating and cooking. Restructuring of the gas supply network to
   improve accessibility and financial viability, which i s beingaddressed under other initiatives,
   will help to alleviate the pressure on the electricity system. In addition, the proposed project
   will provide a tool for load management at the supply level, allowing the National Dispatch
   Center to quickly identify and address excessive peak loads on the system and minimize the
   risk of uncontrolled forced outages. A reliable and efficient dispatch, transmission and
    metering system i s a necessary condition for many energy efficiency measures to work.


0   Finance more transmission system rehabilitation rather than a dispatch system
    (SCADA/EMS/telecom/metering).        KfW projects together with this IBRD project have
    contributed or will contribute to significant rehabilitation of the transmission system. The
    SCADA system allows the operator to quickly discover problems in the grid and with the
    generation units, thereby reducing the chance of outages and cascading negative impacts of a
    problem, reducing the time of outages, and generally ensure safe operation of the system.
    The economic rate of return of the SCADA investment i s high based on conservative
    assumptions, and the Government has expressed a strong preference for investing in the
    SCADA system.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

1.1InstitutionalResponsibilitiesand Capacity

Executing Agencies: The executing agency responsible for project management and
implementation would be the Borrower, Azerenerji OJSC (open joint stock company).
Azerenerji i s the state-owned enterprise responsible for operation and management of the high-
voltage transmission network and the major thermal and hydroelectric generating stations.

The executing agency on the Government's side would be the Ministry of Finance.                The
Ministry, and in some cases the Borrower, would provide coordination with other Government
agencies, notably Ministry of Economic Development (MED), Ministry of Industry and Energy
(ME),Cabinet of Ministers, andthe Tariff Council, andwith bilateral andmultilateralfinancing
agencies as needed. The Ministry of Finance may delegate some Government coordination and
oversight responsibilitiesto other ministries (MEDand/or ME)that these ministries are believed
to have the capacity to handle.

Azerenerji has established a Project Implementation Unit for the proposed project, reporting to
the Chief Engineer (First Deputy President) and staffed by specialists in technical, financial,
environmental, and procurement matters, to act as the Bank's counterpart on day-to-day matters.


                                                  7

The PIU i s currently responsible for project preparation.        Once the loan i s approved and
effective, the PIU will be responsible for project implementation, including procurement,
contract supervision and management, and project financial management, including project
accounting, financial reporting, loan disbursements, and arrangements for external audit.

Project Zmplementation Capacity: Azerenerji has been the beneficiary and implementing
agency in two major hydro rehabilitation projects financed by EBRD, a substation rehabilitation
project financed by KfW, and reconstruction of a combined-cycle thermal power plant financed
by JBIC. The capacity of Azerenerji and the PIU to undertake their project implementation
responsibilitiesi s considered to be satisfactory, given their experience with previous projects and
the technical skills of their staff. However, the project would include financing for additional
project management and specialist support during implementation to provide assistance in
dealing with the technical complexities of the dispatching system and the new technologies
invo1ved.

1.2 Implementation Arrangements

Lending and On-Lending:          A loan of US$48 million equivalent would be extended to
Azerenerji under IBRD terms with a sovereign Guarantee from the Government of Azerbaijan.
The loan would be a Single Currency Fixed Spread Loan, denominated in US dollars.
Repayment would be over a period of 20 years, including 8 years' grace.                 The project
implementation phase i s expected to be 5 years.

Disbursement: (Annex 7) Disbursements from the IBRD Loan will be transaction-based to
finance eligible expenditures for goods, works, technical assistance, and recurrent costs
consistent with Country Financing Parameters for Azerbaijan.           To facilitate timely project
implementation, the borrower will establish, maintain, and operate a Special Account
denominated in U S dollars, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Special
Account will be held in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank.                  Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account will be made on not less than quarterly basis. The Special
Account will have an initial allocation of US$l,OOO,OOO.      Once cumulative disbursements under
the loan have reached US$5,000,000, the allocation will increase to US$2,000,000. Payments in
excess of 20 percent of Special Account will be made through direct disbursement from the Loan
Account.

Financial Management and Reporting Arrangements: (Annex 7) The PIU will prepare and
submit to the Bank quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in a format agreed with the
Bank. The PIU would also be responsible for coordinating the annual audits of the Project
Financial Statements, as well as the corporate financial statements that will be carried out by
independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit fees for both
the project andthe corporate audits would be financed from the Loan.

2. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomedresults

The PIU, with the assistance of Azerenerji and the relevant Government ministries, will monitor
progress against agreed performance indicators specified in Section B2 and Annex 3. The PIU
will provide, on a quarterly basis, 45 days after the end of each quarter, consolidated reports on


                                                   8

project implementation progress in the Bank's Financial Management Report (FMR) format.
Draft annual action programs for the upcoming year will be included with the December reports
for IBRD's review and comment. The Govemment of Azerbaijan and IBRD will conduct joint
reviews annually during supervision missions. The PIU will prepare a detailed mid-term report
within 27 months of project effectiveness to serve as the basis for a project mid-term review, to
be undertaken not less than 3 months later. In addition to the topics covered under the quarterly
reports, the mid-term review will include a review of the economic viability of the project, based
on actual costs and benefits achieved to-date as well as any revised estimates. Based on the
outcome of the mid-term review, measures will be taken to ensure efficient completion of the
project.   The PIU will also help prepare a Borrower's contribution to an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), so that IBRD could complete the ICR within six months of the closing
date of the Loan. The ICR would include an assessment of project costs and benefits, project
execution, and performances of involved parties.

3. Sustainability

The project enjoys strong support from the Government. Assistance in improving the reliability
and effectiveness of the high voltage transmission system was a key component of a request by
the Government for sector investment funding. The project i s specifically noted in the agreed
FY03-05 CAS, and the Govemment has taken a PHRDGrant for project preparation.

Over the longer term, the sustainability of the project will depend on:

     0  increasingAzerenerji's tariffs to cost-recovery level;
     0  the financial performance of electricity distribution companies and their orderly payments
        to Azerenerji for supply of electricity; and
     0  capacity building for the Azerenerji dispatchers; continuous SCADA computer system
        support; maintenance personnel and resources for the transmission system.

The LDP attached to the PRSC-I lending operation includes the Government's commitment to a
medium-term tariff policy that would bring electricity tariffs to cost recovery levels no later than
by 2010. The path to such cost recovery i s not yet laid out in detail, and will depend on progress
with developing social protection programs and systems (as supported by an IDA credit) and the
development in pensions, minimum wages, and other. In the legal agreements for this project,
the Government has agreed to the mentioned tariff policy framework and to continue to provide
financial support to Azerenerji sufficient to make up shortfalls in cash flow as a result of
contractually-mandated non-payments by distribution companies and/or non-compensatory
tariffs until such time as these conditions no longer pertain.

The financial performance of electricity distribution companies i s essential to the sustainability
of the entire power sector, and of Azerenerji in particular, since Azerenerji's revenues depend
almost exclusively on payments from distribution companies. The distribution companies have
been transferred to private management, and their payments to Azerenerji are specified in the
concession contracts. Inor before 2010, all distribution companies are contractually obligated to
provide timely payment for their full supply of power from Azerenerji. Technical assistance for
capacity buildingi s included in the scope of the Project.




                                                  9

4. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

CriticalRisks

Risk                                              Risk Rating Risk Mitigation Measure

From Outputs to Objective
Inadequate       tariffs       for    sector           S        Technical       assistance   to Government    in
enterprises due to failure to establish                         establishing and implementing independent
suitable institutions and rules for                             utility regulation provided by donors (PPIAF,
independent regulation.                                         USAID).
Loss of Government commitment to                       S        Government performance to be supported by
the principles of cost-recovery tariffs.                        adjustment lending, as well as donor-financed
                                                                TA. The Government has committed in the
                                                                Guarantee       Agreement     to establish cost-
                                                                recovering tariffs by 2010 and to provide
                                                                financial support to compensate Azerenerji for
                                                                non-compensatory tariffs.
Failure to establish adequate social                   M        Pension and Social Assistance Project (IDA,
protection systems on a timely basis.                            2004). Future energy price increases mitigated
                                                                by recent substantial increases in pensions and
                                                                 minimumwages.
Distribution companies' payment to                     S         Government commitment to provide necessary
Azerenerji for power supply falls                                financial support to Azerenerji even if private
short of their contractual obligations.                          distributors do not meet their contractual
                                                                 obligations.

From Components to Outputs
Meter reading and dispatch rules and                   M         Privatization of distribution and strengthening
procedures not followed.                                         regulation.
Inadequate system maintenance.                         S         Financial strengthening of Azerenerji through
                                                                 tariff increase andfull collection of payments.
Project implementation delays due to                   S         Local financing requirement minimized. PTU
lack of local financing and poor                                 to be assisted by TA for project management
project management.                                              duringimplementation.

Overall Risk Rating                                    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)

Possible ControversialAspects:
None.

5. Loan conditions and covenants

        The Government will budget and provide annual financial support to Azerenerji
sufficient to cover the differences between the company's annual revenues (net of non-payments)
and its annual cash flow requirements (including operating and maintenance costs, self-financing


                                                         10

of capital investments, and debt service) until such time as tariffs shall reach cost-recovery level
and distribution companies are required to make timely payment for 100% of the electricity
received from Azerenerji. The need for financial support i s expected to last until 2010. The
Government has also agreed, by May 31, 2005, to develop a medium-term tariff policy,
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall enable the Borrower to achieve full cost recovery o f its
operations no later than December 31, 2010; and thereafter, implement the tariff policy in
accordance with its defined timetable.

In addition, Azerenerji will maintain a current ratio of 1.2:1, and will refrain from incurring
additional debt unless their current annual net revenue exceeds their maximum future debt
service requirement by a ratio of at least 1.5:1. Azerenerji will establish a local Project Account,
in US dollars, and will maintain a balance in this account not less than the expected local
cofinancing requirements over the subsequent 3-month period.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financial analyses

1.1    Benefit-Cost Analysis: Potential benefits of the proposed project include (i)reduction
in the cost of electricity supply through more economic dispatch of power plants and reduced
line losses;   (ii)increased reliability of supply to industrial, commercial and household
customers;    (iii)reductioninmaintenance andrepaircosts through the prevention of forced
outages and ancillary damages; (iv) greater opportunities to participate in regional electricity
trade through better understanding and monitoring of system status and requirements; and (v)
potential to defer new investments in generation and transmission through more efficient use of
existing resources.

The primary beneficiaries of the project will be the electricity customers in Azerbaijan, who will
enjoy reliable electricity supply at prices lower than would otherwise be required. Fiscal impacts
of the project would include medium-term reductions inthe level of state support required for the
power sector (in terms of financing for power plant fuel supply), reduction in the cost of
electricity used by budget organizations, and reduction in the future level of subsidies to low
income customers as a result of reduced need for tariff increases.

The economic analysis looked at the benefits associated with reduced line losses, more economic
dispatch of power plants, net savings in system operating and maintenance costs, and deferred
investment as a result of more efficient use of existing resources. While increased reliability of
supply and regional electricity trade are no less important, it is more difficult to anticipate the
value of these impacts given the degree to which they rely on factors outside the control of the
project. However, a conservative allowance has been made inthe calculations for benefits of the
SCADA/EMS component related to the ability to reactivate the system more quickly in the event
of an outage and for benefits of the transmission and substation rehabilitation projects accruing
from reduced frequency and duration of outages, and removal of capacity constraints at
substations.




                                                  11

Based on the assumptions outlined in Annex 9, the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) the
SCADA/EMS component i s estimated at 35.8 percent. Net present value (NPV) at a 10 percent
discount rate would be US$73.2 million. The ERRSfor the transmission line subcomponents
that have been proposedfor Component B are very high, ranging from 53 percent to 441 percent.
The overall EIRR for the 12 subprojects i s 76 percent. EIRRs for the proposed transformer
replacement at Imishli, Gandja and Gala are also high (46 percent, 64 percent, and 51 percent
respectively), since these stations are operating at or near capacity duringpeak loads. . While the
proposed replacement of the transformers at Mushvig cannot bejustified on the basis of capacity
constraints, the Mushvig substation i s located in a high-profile area of Baku, serving the
presidential palace and a number of major government facilities, and may be justified on the
basis of reliability and security of supply. In addition, Azerenerji plans to use the existing
transformers to replace transformers at other substations that are either nearing capacity or
nearing the end of their economic life.        Replacement of switchgear and batteries at three
additional substations i s regarded as a "must-do" project in order to protect the integrity of the
entire substation. Overall, the ERR for Component B i s estimated at 48 percent, and the NPV at
$83.8 million. The ERR for the project as a whole i s estimated at 38 percent, and the NPV at
$143.7 million.

The project's financial internal rate of return (FIRR) was also evaluated usingfinancial prices for
the benefits and costs.     At current tariffs and fuel prices, the FIRR for the SCADA/EMS
component i s estimated at 30.2 percent, and the NPV at US$53.7 million. For the proposed
investments in transmission network rehabilitation, the FIRR for Azerenerji i s less attractive
owing to the Govemment's current tariff policy. At current tariff levels, the ability to serve
additional load (through reductions in forced outages and removing capacity constraints) makes
little contribution to the company's profitability since the variable cost of supply (mostly fuel) i s
very close to the tariff level. The main financial benefit of carrying out the rehabilitation works
at the present time i s the ability to avoid an equal or potentially greater investment in the future
when the facilities can no longer function. However, as tariffs increase to full cost recovery
levels, reduced outages and the associated increase in electricity sales will yield financial
benefits equal to the difference between the full and variable cost of supply for the additional
units of electricity supplied. Assuming that tariffs reach full cost recovery in 2008, and also
assuming that, absent the current project, the equipment would have to be replacedrehabilitated
at an equal cost not less than 5 years hence, the FlRR of the transmission rehabilitation
component would be 9.1 percent. If tariffs do not reach full cost recovery until 2010, the FIRR
would be 8.7 percent. The low financial retums to Azerenerji are not considered a problem
(beyond the problem of low tariffs), since the high EIRR reflects the consumers' willingness to
pay to avoid outages and load shedding. Details of the economic and financial analysis and the
underlying assumptions are contained in Annex 9.

The project also offers substantial environmental benefits related to reduced greenhouse gas
emissions. A portion o f these benefits may translate into additional financial returns to the
Borrower through the sale of carbon credits. The Bank i s currently preparing a Carbon Credit
Finance Project based on the emission reductions associated with anticipated savings in fossil
fuel consumption (see Annex 12).




                                                  12

1.2    Financial Viability of Azerenerji: At current tariff levels, Azerenerji is unable to meet its
operating costs and cash flow requirements even with full collections - which infact were only
30 percent in 2002, and 36 percent in 2003. As a result, the State i s providing the necessary
liquidity by financing the purchase of fuel and imported electricity. The company had an
operating loss of AZM 421 billion (US$ 84 million) through 9 months of 2004. Duringthe same
period, the government transferred in excess of AZM 2 trillion (US$400 million - equivalent to
the value of fuel purchases for the last 2 quarters of 2003 and the first 2 quarters of 2004) in
order to offset the cash flow problems associated with operating losses, debt service obligations,
and less-than-full collections. Collections are scheduled to increase under the concession
contracts with the operators of the four distribution companies; however, payments by the
distributions companies are not scheduled to reach 100percent until 2010. The company has
external loans equivalent to US$375 million, with a balance owing of approximately US$310
million as of the end of 2003. Approximately one half of the borrowings are on terms similar to
IDA. The remainingloans have terms of 11-12 years with repayment obligations starting
between 1999 and 2003. Inaddition, the company's capital investment program calls for
additional borrowing of approximately US$940 million (including the proposednetwork
rehabilitationproject) over the 2005 - 2006 period. Debt service costs over the 2005- 2010
period, including the new borrowings, are estimated to total approximately US$515 million.

Projections of financial viability, debt service capacity, and the transition to cost-recovery tariffs
were developed for a number of scenarios which incorporated various options for the transition
to cost recovery tariffs for electricity supply within the framework of reaching full transition by
2010, and examined the required level of government financial support associated with each
scenario.

Because of the cash flow problems associated with deferred payments by the distribution
companies and high debt service obligations, financial recovery of Azerenerji will have to be
achieved by a combination of tariff increases and interimfinancial support. There are significant
advantages, however, to accelerating the timing of tariff increases. First, higher tariffs would
encourage customers to use electricity more efficiently, thereby moderating growth in demand
and hence the need for Government financial support. Second, tariff increases would reduce the
need for government financial support, freeing up additional funds to provide support for low-
income households. Finally, moving to cost recovery tariffs at a time when the distribution
companies have some leeway in terms of enforcing payment provides a de facto form of social
support for low income households while more formal mechanisms for social protection are put
inplace.

O f the alternative scenarios for tariff increases and government support which were developed
and reviewed, the option which was deemed to offer the best balance between the Government's
affordability concerns and the need to move quickly to economically efficient pricing of
electricity supply would entail a 50 percent increase in wholesale electricity tariffs (from 71
AZWkWh to 106.5 AZMkWh) effective January 1, 2006, with equal annual percentage
increases thereafter in order to reach full cost recovery (estimated at 174 AZWkWh) by the end
of 2010. The proposed option would require government financial support totaling AZM 6.7
trillion over the 2005 - 2010 period. Details of the analysis and of the projected corporate
financial position are provided inAnnex 9.



                                                  13

Duringthe period to 2010 while tariffs are increased and the distribution companies' contractual
rights to defer part of the payments for received wholesale electricity are eliminated, the
Government will continue to provide financial support to Azerenerji as part of the terms of the
Guarantee Agreement. The support shall be sufficient to make up the difference between the
company's revenues (net of non-payments) and its cash flow requirements (including operating
and maintenance costs, self-financing of capital investment, and debt service).      In addition,
Azerenerji will conform with the current ratio, debt service and project pre-financing covenants
outlined in Section C.5.

2. Technical

The technical components of the proposed project were identified and evaluated as part of a
detailed feasibility study carried out by Azerenerji with the assistance of international
consultants. The technical solutions for the dispatch, telecommunications, and station adaptation
and metering subcomponents are based on standard concepts and proven technologies, accepted
and applied worldwide. At the same time, they are particularly suitable and adaptable to the
needs of the Azerbaijan grid where wide variances in plant characteristics, as well as technical
and capacity constraints in the grid, make comprehensive and timely information and control
systems essential.

Technical solutions for rehabilitation of transmission substations include standard components
such as transformers, circuit breakers, switchgear, batteries, and chargers. Rehabilitation of
transmission lines includes replacement of damaged conductors, replacement and reinforcement
of towers, tower foundations and anchoring, conductor spacers, insulators and line armatures,
grounding rods, and vibration dampers. Some of the subcomponents may change during project
implementation subject to additional studies and a changing system environment.        However,
most of the proposed subcomponents have been characterized as "must do" components, thus
appropriate to Azerenerji and the sector's urgent needs.

Technical assistance will be necessary for the successful project management, design,
procurement, and installation of the dispatch system, and to a lesser degree for the system
rehabilitation (procurement and environmental assistance).     The Project will also finance a
transmission network study (including a system stability and relay coordination analysis and
software), dispatch training, an updated Grid Code, and assistance relating to financial
management and other management, as described under Components C and D of the Project
Components section further above.

3. Fiduciary

A Financial Management Capacity Assessment (FMCA) was carried out during project
preparation and updated at Appraisal. The assessment indicated that the PIU and Azerenerji
meet financial management requirements for the project. The PIU and their consultants have
implemented recommended improvements to the Project accounting system, including automatic
generation of required Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs).




                                                14

A procurement capacity assessment was carried out in October 2004, which confirmed that the
PIU and Azerenerji meet minimumrequirements for the project. Given the prior experience of
Azerenerji staff in implementing donor-financed projects, capacity shortcomings are confined to
the specifics o f Bank procurement procedures. Provision has been made under Component D of
the project for TA to address the needs for procurement support and capacity building.

4. Social

The project will have a positive social impact by improving the reliability and quality of
electricity supply, and there are no direct negative social impacts of the project. While proposed
increases in electricity tariffs will lead to higher costs for customers, the State Budget resources
currently used to support Azerenerji can be targeted to better protect vulnerable households. A
new credit, "Pension and Social Assistance Project" (IDA, 2004) will support the Government in
improving the social protection system. The Government has committed to a targeted social
assistance program that will, inter alia, protect low-income families from the negative effects of
tariff increases.

In 2004, the Bank undertook a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) of reforms in the
power sector, notably the impact of tariff increases. In Baku, households spend about 2 percent
o f their income on electricity. A 50 percent tariff increase would cause an increase in the
monthly electricity bill of about US$2, which i s significant but probably bearable for most
families, considering substantial increases in pension levels and minimum wage levels in 2004.
Data outside Baku i s lacking, but if higher tariffs and collections can improve the currently poor
service level, the social impact would be positive.

While the Project will not explicitly monitor its social impact, cost savings and quality of supply
improvements (at the transmission level) will be monitored.           The SCADA system creates
opportunities for Azerenerji staff to learn new, advanced skills.      The system may in a 5-year
perspective reduce staffing needs at HV substations, although very modestly compared to the
size of the company (9500 employees). Azerenerji reduces staff mainly through attrition.

5. Environment

The project i s conservatively expected to lead to a 1.5 percent reduction in gas and fuel oil use at
power plants because of more economic dispatch, with a corresponding effect on emission of
greenhouse gases. An estimated 0.5 percentage point's reduction in transmission losses (from 5
percent to 4.5 percent) has a corresponding positive impact on emissions from the power plants.
Insofar as the project contributes to increased and more reliable electricity supply, it will help to
reduce the need for households to consume wood and kerosene in order to meet their demands
for heat and lighting. Savings of power plant fuel will be monitored under the project, and thus
also emission reductions. Future household surveys will monitor developments in electricity
supply vs. wood and kerosene use (as well as natural gas). At the same time, it i s anticipated that
the tariff increases which form a key part o f government strategy for the utilities subsectors will
encourage more efficient use of energy, and hence reduce future growth in greenhouse gas
emissions.




                                                   15

6. Safeguard policies

 Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                            Yes             N o
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                [XI             [I
 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                           11              [XI
 PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                [I              [XI
 Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                 [I              [XI
 Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                   [I              [XI
 IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                   [I              [XI
 Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                    [I              [XI
 Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                             [I              [XI
 Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                               [I              [XI
 Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                     [I              [XI


The project has been given an environmental category rating of B since proposed investments
under the project will be confined to existing facilities and rights of way and as such are unlikely
to trigger major environmental impacts or other safeguard policies. As part of the EA, an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared to define procedures for mitigation of
local impacts of the project during construction (e.g. repair of lines, replacement of transformer
equipment) and disposal of waste materials and procedures for mitigation during operation (e.g.
maintenance activities). Consultations about and disclosure of the EMP has taken place. There
will be no subprojects indisputed areadconflict zones.

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

The project complies with all applicable Bank policies.

The Feasibility study for the project has been completed and approved by Azerenerji.

A Procurement Plan has been developed and agreed with the Borrower.

Prequalification bids for Component A, Power System Management, have been received and
evaluated. Documentation for two-stage biddingi s under preparation. The Borrower has hired a
consulting firm (consortium) to provide procurement and technical assistance through the
biddingstages and contract negotiations.




                                                16

                            Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                          AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project

Azerbaijan has experienced many of the same challenges as other CIS transition states since
gaining independence from the Soviet Union. However, armed conflict, and a large population
of refugees and IDPs have exacerbated problems. Thus, Azerbaijan i s today one of the seven
lowest income countries of Europe and Central Asia.           On a more positive note, however,
Azerbaijan's future holds tremendous promise because of oil and gas resources that it i s currently
developing. How the country manages the exploitation of these finite natural resources and the
associated revenue boom will determine the success of its medium-term poverty reduction goals,
set out in its PRSP.

1.      Macroeconomic and Governance Trends. After hyperinflation and severe recession,
the economy grew at nearly 9 percent a year during 1997-2002 while annual inflation droppedto
0.1 percent. Azerbaijan by now has an impressive track record of stabilization with fiscal
restraint and prudent monetary policy. External indebtedness i s modest and sustainable. Oil and
gas developments proceed as planned, and GDP expanded by 11.2 percent in 2003, reflecting
both sound policy adjustments and high oil prices. However, oil production i s expected to peak
in 2010 and decline rapidly after 2013, absent other major discoveries. The role of the Oil Fund
will be crucial in managing the boom, and securing growth that i s more equitable across current
and future generations. Diversified development of the non-oil sector i s key for generating jobs
and equity. A joint EBRD and World Bank Business Environment and Enterprise Performance
Survey showed significant progress on governance and corruption issues during 1999-2002,
although much remains to be done to strengthen the business environment.

2.      Poverty Reduction. Despite some progress in recent years, about 47 percent of the
population lived in poverty in 2002 and 9 percent lived in extreme poverty. The incidence o f
income poverty i s greatest among households in provincial towns, although rural areas have
more limited access to services and there are significant regional variations in poverty rates.
Appropriate management of oil resources offers promising prospects for meeting the Millennium
Development Goals.

3.      Azerbaijan's PRSP, known as the State Program on Poverty Reduction and Economic
Development (SPPRED), identifies six strategic pillars: (i)   an enabling environment for income-
generating opportunities; (ii)  macroeconomic stability; (iii) of and equity in access to
                                                               quality
health and education; (iv) infrastructure improvements (including roads, utility services, and
irrigation); (v) social protection reforms to serve the vulnerable more effectively; and (vi) better
conditions for refugees and IDPs. The SPPRED and the Millennium Development Goals (MDG)
serve as the organizing framework for the CAS, whose four strategic goals are designed to
underpin the six SPPRED pillars. Generally, Azerbaijan i s on track to realize most MDGs by
2015, with the caveat that health indicators are difficult to measure due to data uncertainties that
needto be addressed.

The primary issues in the Azeri power sector are typical for countries of the FSU: (i)  inadequate
levels of investment and maintenance, especially since independence; (ii)    inadequate tariffs and
collections; and (iii) designs originally optimized to function as part of a larger integrated
                      system



                                                 17

power supply network. The problems have been complicated in Azerbaijan by the war over
Nagorno-Karabakh, which displaced a large percentage of the population, and led to the loss of
many key facilities in the southwestern part of the country. However, the power sector has seen
significant investments from the IFIs in recent years, and Azerenerji's financial dependence on
the State i s mostly a matter of political choices relating to the Government's tariff policy and its
privatization strategy for power distribution.

The Government's strategy for addressing these issues generally corresponds to the sector reform
program implemented in a number of Bank member countries. The key steps are: (i)sector
restructuring to separate the ownership/management of generation, transmission and distribution;
(ii)development of a regulatory framework and institutions to promote competition and ensure
the financial viability of sector enterprises;      (iii)introduction of targeted social protection
programs to mitigate the impact of higher tariffs on vulnerable groups; and (iv) involvement of
the private sector in the operation andor financing of generation and distribution facilities.

In line with the above, the Government has separated and reorganized the power distribution
network into four regional companies, and entered into four long-term management contracts
with private companies (Barmek for Baku and the northeast, Baiva for the western and southern
parts of the country) which have the character of being concession contracts due to the
management companies' investment obligations and the 25 year duration of the contracts. To
attract operators and investors, the Government allowed the distributors to defer payments for a
portion of the electricity they purchase from Azerenerji while they are building up their end-user
payment collections. Payments to Azerenerji shall reach 100 percent in 2010. This arrangement
i s one of the two main causes of Azerenerji's dependence on State financial support in a
transition period. The other main reason i s the non-compensatory wholesale tariff which i s to
increase to full cost recovery by 2010, as described further below.

4.      The FY03-05 CAS strategy comprises four interrelated strategic goals, aiming to: (i)
manage the oil windfall and maintain macroeconomic stability; (ii)        generate jobs and non-oil
growth     (iii)improve access to services by reversing the decline in social services and
infrastructure and (iv) help realize the oil potential to the extent and in the timeframe envisaged
by Azerbaijan's poverty reduction program. These would be supported by a carefully balanced
combination of policy-based assistance (PRSCs) and investment projects, institution building
and technical assistance, as well as analytical support.        The proposed Power Transmission
Rehabilitation Project i s specifically noted in the CAS as a mechanism to support the third
strategic goal of improved access to services.

5.      Power Sector Institutional Reforms Supported by PRSC. The Government's Letter
of Development Policy (LDP) associated with the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-I,
2005), includes a commitment to consolidate reforms in the utilities and infrastructure sectors
through financial restructuring of the large natural monopolies; separation of commercial and
regulatory functions; and introduction of proper regulatory frameworks.

Inan attachment to the LDP (see full text inAttachment 1to Annex l), Government outlines
                                                                            the
how it will ensure the sustained viability of the utility services sector.         The Government
recognizes that the delivery of affordable utility services of acceptable quality i s an essential



                                                  18

requirement in enhancing the living standards of the population. Consequently, the Government
has established a strategy to address this need. This strategy has five components:


    0   Promoting increased private participation inthe provision of utility services;
    0   Establishing a medium term tariff policy for Azerbaijan;
    0   Implementing international financial reporting standards;
    0   Creating an appropriate regulatory environment; and
    0   Strengthening competition through a new Competition Law.

According to the strategy, the Government will significantly increase the level of private sector
participation in the provision of utility services within the next five years, including power
generation.

A medium-term tariff policy i s outlined in the mentioned attachment to the LDP, albeit not in
detail. Most importantly, the Government commits to eliminate by 2010 all financial support for
the provision of electricity (as well as gas and water services) and to achieving full cost recovery
tariffs. Tariffs will be raised in a staged fashion that gives full consideration to the affordability
of these tariff increases. On or before January 1, 2005, the Government significantly increased
tariffs for natural gas, water supply in Baku, and raised prices on gasoline and diesel.        The
Government, however, has elected to defer increases inelectricity tariffs.

The Government has developed draft legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, for the establishment
of an independent regulatory agency covering electricity, gas, water and wastewater sectors.
This legislation is on the Parliament's legislative agendafor AprilMay 2005.

6.      Power Sector Structure. Azerbaijan's power generation capacity i s comprised of a
mixture of thermal and hydro generation facilities. The transmission and distribution networks
were designed to provide almost universal access. Azerbaijan has transmission interconnections
and i s able to trade power with Russia, Georgia, Iran, and Turkey. A direct line to Armenia i s
partly dismantled. Table 1,below, summarizes the capacity inthe sector.

Azerenerji, a state-owned enterprise, manages both generation and transmission. Distribution
activities are grouped in four regional distribution companies and the Government has
transferred management of these activities to two private companies under what are, in effect,
concession arrangements, as described further below. Barmek Holding AS manages the Baku
and Sumgayit power distribution networks, and the Baku High Voltage Electrical Equipment
Company manages the Ali-Bayramli and Gandja networks.

The sector, however, has suffered from inadequate funding to perform essential maintenance
functions and to introduce new technology. The result has been a distinct deterioration in the
quality of the infrastructure and an associated deterioration in the quality of service. Rolling
blackouts are now commonplace and the sector i s becoming increasingly exposed to the risk o f
systemic collapse. Rehabilitating and upgrading generation facilities and investing in a modem
transmission management system could significantly reduce the risk of system failure, and this
Power Transmission Project i s a central part of the Government's effort inthat respect.




                                                  19

With the deterioration in the sector's infrastructure, the country i s now no longer self sufficient
in terms of electricity supplies. While it has the capability of providing the primary fuels for
power generation from its natural resource base - in particular, its hydrocarbon resource base,
significant investment in generation facilities will be required if self sufficiency in terms of
electricity supply i s to be re-established.


Annex 1- Table 1: Transmission and Distribution Network

         I'ransmission                    500kV      330kV       220 kV       110kV          Total
           Line length- km.                693.6      961.2      1,225.9      2,283.4       5,164.1
           Number of substations              1         4            9           23           37
         Distribution Network             110kV       35 kV       20 kV      6-10kV         0.4 kV

           Line lengthkm.
            Baku                              0        727          72           1,271        6,490
            Gandja                            0       1,925           0       12,519        20,659
            Ali-Bayramli                    934       1,951           0       11,534        20,529
            Sumgayit                        - 0         527         - 0          3,672        6,807
             Total                          934       5,130          72       28,996        54,485

            Cable line length km.
            Baku                               0        111           9          1,653        1,330
            Gandja                             0        171           0              0          280
            Ali-Bayramli                       0          0           0             15          132
            Sumgayit                           -
                                               0        6             -
                                                                      0          297          535
             Total                             0        288           9          1,965        2,277

            Substations
            Baku                              11        217          57          3,674
            Gandja                            87        192           0          6,129
            Ali-Bayramli                      66        272           0          6,290
            Sumgayit                        - 60
                                              29                     -0          2,087
              Total                          193        741          57        18.180
         Source: Report prepared for thi Yorld Bank
                     -    -~                        y Dr.Vilayat Valiyev (2( l). The isolated Nakhchivan
         ;rid is not included inthe numbers above.




                                                     20

Annex 1- Table 2: Power Generation Plants and Capacities

Name                Type        ##      Unit             Total         Total Real
                                Units Nominal            Nominal       Capacity
                                        Capacity         Capacity      MW
                                        MW               MW                         Fuel Oil

Azerbaijan          Thermal     8       300              2,400          1,383                     1981-1990
Ali-Bayramli        Thermal     7        155-160         1,100         785          NG(4)         1962-68
                                                                                    FO (3)
Shimal              Thermal     1        150             150            100
Baku-1              Thermal     2       55               110            93
Total Major         Thermal 18                           3,760")       2,361
Thermal
                   I          I        I               I             I


Mingachevir         Hydro       6       60               360           250
Shamkir             Hydro       2        190             380            380
Yenikend            Hydro       3       37.5             112.5          112.5
Varvara             Hydro       3       5.5              16.5
Other Plants        Hidro                                132
Total Major         Hydro                                1,001         742.5
Hydro

GrandTotal                                             1 4,761        I 3,103.5
*) Total Nominal Thermal Capacity is 4234 MW when units are~includedthat are rated with 0Real Capacity (Baku-
          - .


12, Sumgayit-1, Sumgayit-2)

7.       InvestmentRequirements. As Table 2 above indicates, available generation capacity is
substantially less than installed capacity, representing a little less than 60 percent of installed
capacity. Available capacity i s not sufficient to meet peak winter domestic demand when there
i s extensive use of electricity for heating, and the reserve margin, which would be expected to be
around 20 percent to 25 percent, i s non-existent at current consumption rates2.

Options to meet peak demand include (i)        expanding and upgrading existing generation facilities;
(ii) increasing regional trade; (iii)improving the performance o f existing facilities; and (iv)
demand-side management.

In 2003, Burns and Roe Inc. completed a least-cost planning study3, funded by EBRD, to
identify optimal expansion plans to meet Azerbaijan's future power needs. The study covered
the period 2003 to 2020 and forecasted a 4 percent increase in gross consumption o f electricity in
2004 and 2005, followed by annual increases in consumption in the range o f 1.2 percent to 1.6
percent, see details in Attachment 2 to this Annex 1. The study concluded that, in order to meet



  In2002, billed consumption was 18,031 MWh.
  BurnsandRoe Inc.: "Republic of Azerbaijan: Prioritization of InvestmentNeeds for Power Generation and
Transmission", November 2003.


                                                      21

projected demand levels, new generation capacity would be needed from 2007 and the required
additions to capacity by 2020 would exceed 2,000 MW.

Investment requirements to address these generation and transmission needs exceed $475
million, almost $280 million of which are critical near term items. (These estimates exclude the
planned installation of a 400 MW combined cycle unit at Shimal. They also exclude any
investment in distribution). The investment requirements are briefly summarized inTable 3.

Annex 1- Table 3: Power Sector InvestmentNeeds

                                                       TotalCost          2004 -2007 Needs
                                                   2003 US$ millions 2003 US$ millions
    Generation:
    Least cost planning study base case                   246.7                    74.1
    rehabilitation and upgrade
    Transmission:
    Transmission system reinforcement plan                231.7                  205.6
    And replacement of Central Dispatch
    Total                                                 478.4                  279.7


With these investments, Azerbaijan would be on track to meet the generation profile required to
cover its projecteddemand through 2020. This profile i s shown inTable 4 below.

Annex 1- Table 4: Installed Generation Capacity Forecast -Base Case
   12,000-



                             I
   10,000-     IAzgres
              1OShimal CC
                New CC
               -
               OHydro



0
s3  8,000-
1




    6,000-
8

    4,000-




    2,000-




       0 -
               2004    2005   2006  2007  2008  2009    2010    2011   2012    2015    2020

        Source: BurnsandRoe

Priority investments are required to upgrade and rehabilitate existing generation facilities to meet
the near term demand and to allow time for the financing and construction of new capacity. At a



                                               22

minimum, emergency facilities should be enhanced to reduce the risk of large-scale failure.
EBRD is preparing a loan4 to support emergency and capacity enhancing investments in
generation.

The transmission grid represents the largest risk o f systemic, catastrophic failure and overloading
and protective relay operations have been major contributors to winter blackouts5. There i s a
highrisk that availability could be further reduced due to the sub-optimal location of generation
compared to demand and the consequent reliance on long transmission lines. Investment in a
modem transmission control system such as SCADA6 under this Power Transmission Project,
could reduce the risk of failure and improve economic dispatch. The Least Cost Expansion Plan
also identified replacement of the Central Dispatch Center as a priority investment. KfW i s
supporting the upgrade mainly of substations'.

8.       Power Distribution Management Contracts.                      Private firm Barmek Holding AS
manages the Baku power distribution network since 2002 and the Sumgayit distribution
networks since 2003. Private firm Baku hgh Voltage Electrical Equipment Company ("Baiva")
manages the Ali-Bayramli and Gandja distribution networks since 2003.

With the transfer of the distribution facilities to the private sector, responsibility for investment
indistribution has also beentransferred. These arrangements havebeen established on a contract
basis essentially equivalent to a 25-year concession arrangement (although described as a
"management contract").         The contracts include an obligation on the part of the private sector
enterprises to develop investment plans. Since availability of funding to meet future investment
requirements will be dependent on the margins available to the distribution companies, the
Government will need to work closely with these companies to ensure that appropriate incentives
exist to allow adequate investment in distribution. The management contracts for the four
regional distribution and retail companies include the following requirements:

     To make at least certain annual minimumlevels of investment in specified areas;
     To install meteringfor defined customer groups;
     To meet the technical and operational standards proposed by the operator and agreed with the
     MED;
     To meet or exceed specified performance targets for technical losses (or suffer reduced profit
     levels);
     To propose within the first year a new detailed investment program and feasibility study
     which will set out a forward loolung business plan for the company; and
     Restrict operations to "constant margin" for the first three years of the contract.




 The EBRD loan is expected to be about US$lOO million.
 This was clearly demonstrated inJuly 2002, when a combination of fire on the ground and poor transmission line
maintenance caused short-circuits of both the 500 kV and the parallel 330 kV power lines between the Azgres
thermal power station at Mingachevir and Baku, ultimately causing the whole power system to trip and blackout the
entire country.
 Including an Energy Management System, metering and telecommunication upgrades.
 KfW'scredit is 15millionEuros.


                                                       23

The management contractors took over the distribution assets at a time when collections from
end consumers were low. Thus, the management contractors have a right in the initial years of
their contracts to pay for less than the amount of wholesale electricity that they receive from
Azerenerji, starting from a level between 35 percent and 50 percent and stepping up the levels
over several years. For the network in Baku, the contractor i s obliged to pay in full for the
energy early in the second half of the current decade, and for the other networks late in the
decade. Thereafter, their payments will exceed 100 percent of current consumption in order to
pay for past, unpaid deliveries.

9.       Energy Sector institutions, Laws and Regulation.                        The Ministry of Economic
Development (MED) and the Ministry of Industry and Energy (ME)were established in 2001'
and are the primary agencies responsible for energy sector policy making. MED has broad
functions and responsibilities including policymalung, regulation, pricing and tariffs, licensing,
and management of fixed assets. MIE i s responsible for formulating and implementing State
policy for oil and natural gas production, transport and processing, electricity generation and
transmission, district heating, and gas transmission and distribution.

The Tariff Council, chaired by the Minister of Economic Development, addresses monopoly
services for the electricity, natural gas and water sectors. It has authority to propose tariff
adjustments to the Cabinet of Ministers, define customer categories, and adopt cost-reflective
tariff designs.     MED has a pricing and tariff policy function that provides technical and
administrative support to the Council. The Council i s also supported by Working Groups that
include industry representation. The Council has adopted rules and procedures' that outline the
principles and process for tariff determination. However, they do not address sector-specific
issues. Tariffs for the utility sectors include large subsidies particularly to residential consumers.

The Government has developed draft legislation for the establishment of an independent Utility
Regulatory Agency covering the electricity, gas, water, and wastewater sectors. This legislation
i s on the Parliament's legislative agenda for AprilMay 2005.                      Government plans call for
establishing the regulatory agency in 2005 and make it fully operational by mid 2006. The
World Bank mobilized consulting resources in 2003-2004 through PPIAF to assist the
Government in developing the legislation and regulatory base for the new agency. Consultants
funded by USAID provided continued support to the Government in the regulatory area since
mid2004.

The key legal provisions affecting the energy sector are embodied inthe laws inthe table below:




  MEDwas establishedby Presidential Decree No.475 (April30, 2001). MFEwas establishedby Presidential
Decree No. 458 (April 18,2001).
  Rules for Formation and State Regulation of Prices (Tariffs) of the Products (Works, Services) of Natural
Monopoly Subjects, MED Order No. 67, September 20, 2002. These rules are registered with the Ministry o f
Justice.


                                                        24

Annex 1- Table 5: Legislative Framework


    Law on Power Engineering (1998)- This provides the legal basis for electrical and
    thermal power generation, transmission, distribution, purchase, sales and consumption.
    It governs the activities of State power engineering companies, power supply
    companies, independent power producers and consumers. The relevant State
    authorities are responsible for licensing, transmission and distribution contracts,
    pricing, de-monopolization, performance criteria, rules and standards.

    Law on Energy (1999) - This covers energy policy objectives; ownership of
    resources; control of exploration, development of fields and the construction and
    maintenance of transport systems. The law includes a strong commitment to energy
    efficiency and contains significant licensing provisions.

    Law on Use of Energy Resources (1996) - This provides the legal, economic and
    social policy basis for the efficient use of energy resources. The State has the power
    to control the use of energy resources by State enterprises and organizations, to set
    policy for efficient energy resource use, and to use a range of mechanisms to promote
    energy saving technology and equipment. Registration o f plans for energy resource
    use i s also addressed.

    Law on the Protection of Foreign Investments (1992)- This includes a number of
    safeguards for foreign investors and allows the acquisition of exploration and
    development rights. Revisions to this Law are planned.

    Relating specifically to other energy sub-sectors than power, central laws are the Law
    on Gas Supply (1998), Production Sharing Agreements (PSAs), and an Oil Law under
    preparation.




                                                25

                   Attachment 1to Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
                            Azerbaijan: Power Transmission Project

          Attachment to the Government's Letter of DevelopmentPolicy for PRSC-I


                              Azerbaijan Utility Services Sector
                     Medium Term Tariff Policy for Utility Services

Current Situation

The Government of Azerbaijan in close cooperation with international financial institutions has
started reforms in the utility services sector, new relationship have been formed between the
utility service providers and consumers, achieved some progress and currently continues
activities inthis direction.

Overall, the accelerated economic growth, increasingnumber of service and productive facilities,
stricter requirements sought on the volume and quality of the utility services, necessitate new and
more radical actions and implementation of additional measures to address the problems that
impact on the socio-economic development of the country. This notwithstanding, it i s required
to take cautious steps in ensuring the efficiency o f utility services, since the utility services share
common and closely inter-relatedproblems, which requires a comprehensive approach, while the
resolution of these problems could potentially give rise to economic and social consequences.

Hence, the Resolution of the President of Azerbaijan Republic approving "The Program for
Enhancing Financial Discipline in the Energy and Water Sectors" dated March 25th, 2002, #:
893, identified a timeline of initiated works as well as the respective implementers and gave a
substantial impetus to acceleration of reforms in the utility sector. These tasks were further
specified in subsequent Decrees "On Measures to accelerate socio-economic development in
Azerbaijan Republic" dated November 24th, 2003, #: 4, "On Approval of the Law of Azerbaijan
Republic on State Budget for 2004" dated December 27th, 2003, #: 9, "On Approval of the State
Program for Socio-Economic Development of Regions of Azerbaijan Republic (2004-2008)"
dated February 1lth,  2004, #: 24.

Nevertheless, the situation still remains as severe, despite the implementation of relevant
measures to partially improve technical and technological state (rehabilitation of pipelines,
installation of meters, repairing purifying and transmission devices, start of exploitation of new
generation and transmission capacities, etc.) of economic units providing services in important
areas of the utility services sector, such as gas, electricity, water supply, wastewater services, etc.
The continuous increase of prices of energy resources in the world markets enhances those
problems further.

Significance of transition to new tariffs

Among the problems of the utility services sector (technical, technological, economic etc.) a
move towards economically justified tariffs, while of paramount importance, serves as a



                                                   26

principal criteria for establishment of financial discipline in the sector. The problems like a low
purchasing and paying power of the population, high level of technical losses of entities
providing utility services, inadequate accounting, lack of meters for most subscribers, cause
difficulties in intensifying decision-making, while delaying the move to economically justified
tariffs. Generally speaking, the fact that the tariffs of most of the utility services for the
population are less than their respective costs by several folds, results in setting the tariffs for
other consumer groups at much higher levels, thus, leading to cross-subsidization, and
eventually, deviation from the principles of fairness in the economy. This, in tum, constrains the
endogenous investment opportunities and leads to a loss of resources otherwise to be used in the
state budget, violation of financial discipline, higher production costs of enterprises and other
shortcomings.

In this respect, the analyses reveal drastic differences between the current level of cost recovery
and the actual prices in effect. As such:

Currently the wholesale tariff of Azerenergy i s AZM 71 per kWh. Taking into account the
increase of the price of imported gas to US$ 60 per 1,000 m3 starting from the beginning of
2005, in accordance with initial calculations the wholesale tariff per 1kWh of electricity will be
in the range of AZM 120-122 including 5% profitability, that is 69-72% higher than the current
tariff.

Based on the information from AzerSU, the full cost of recovery of 1m3water and wastewater
are AZM 00.99 and AZM 1.28, respectively.

In the revenues and expenditure plan of Azerigaz for 2004, which was approved by the
Azerbaijan Republic Cabinet of Ministers, the cost of delivery of gas to consumers was
established as AZM 40,991 per 1,000 m3.

There i s also a large difference between the costs of heating energy and the current tariffs. For
the past years, heating energy tariffs were not changed despite of the significant increase of
prices of mazut, natural gas, water, wages and stock that affects the costs of heating energy.

In accordance with the decree of Baku Executive Committee dated July 22, 1999 No. 621, the
monthly heatingenergy tariffs inBaku were established as follows for groups o f consumers.

 Consumer Groups                            Quantity                        Tariffs,AZM
 Residentials    .                    Per 1m2 of apartment                       250
 Budget institutions                  Per 1m2 of building                        600
 Other consumers                      Per 1m2 of building                        1,100


Lower residential tariffs than recovery costs of utility services lead to significant subsidization of
consumers of utility services (electricity, gas, water, and wastewater) every year. However, the
fact that these subsidies are provided implicitly results in further worsening of the viability o f the
utility companies, which are unable to obtain a minimumof required resources for maintenance




                                                  27

and investments.     Infrastructure maintenance i s substantially deferred, the risk of systemic
collapse increases, and therefore, the quality of utility services declines.

Long-term sustainability and viability of utility companies depend on the ability to cover costs
from their revenues, which i s possible only through elimination of subsidies in the sector, tariffs
enabling the recovery of the full cost incurred by these companies, enabling financial viability by
providing for sufficient resources for investment.

Measures currently under implementation

The issues to be addressed are economic regulation of electricity, natural gas, water, wastewater
and heating services, a need to increase the reliability and quality of services provided to the
consumers of these services and to ensure the protection of their rights, implementation of
institutional adjustment andrestructuring measures, which meet the international standards.

The Presidential Decree dated December 29, 2004 on the State Budget of the Republic of
Azerbaijan for the year 2005, paragraph 6, subparagraph 3, instructs to prepare proposals on the
introduction of an improved tariffs system to ensure effective use of energy resources, increase
the reliability of power supply to consumers and enhance the financial situation of the energy
sector.

The Government o f Azerbaijan Republic has embarked on a program of economic reforms in the
framework of the program to reduce poverty and resolve current and future problems. This
program includes improving the utility services sector, enabling the private sector participation
in this area, enhancing the financial discipline in the utility sector, increasing the service quality
and establishing the efficient regulatory legal framework.          The Government of Azerbaijan
communicated a Letter of Intent to the World Bank in this regard, where it elaborated its
principles. The Letter of Intent covers objectives and principles on the utility services and aims
at preparation and approval of the Program on developing institutional mechanisms, which
would ensure submission of the relevant draft legislationto Parliament.

 "Nexant, Inc." provided consultancy services to the Government of Azerbaijan on developing
the regulatory legal framework and institutional capacity in electricity, natural gas and water
sectors funded through the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF), multi-donor
technical assistance agency aiming at supporting the developing countries to improve the quality
of infrastructure with private sector participation. Proposals on institutional adjustment in the
sector, on establishing a new regulatory agency and revising the legal framework have been
developed and submitted to relevant organizations.

In addition, it is currently necessary to develop and implement a medium-term tariff policy
embracing the immediate timeframe and consolidating the stages of transition to economically
justified tariffs, which would ensure financial discipline, higher service quality as well as
investment sources.
In recent years, while increases in wages (including the minimum wage) and pensions have
improved the ability of the population to pay higher prices for utility services, however, there i s
need to ensure that utility services provided to consumers within Azerbaijan are affordable. As



                                                  28

the economy continues to expand, the purchasing power of the population will continue to
increase and, with it, the capacity to pay higher prices for utility services will increase. In
addition, the development and implementation of a targeted social safety net as well as the
installation of meters will allow implementing the tariff policy that i s aimed to reach cost
recovery for provided services. The establishment of a targeted social safety net will ensure that
the most vulnerable continue to be able to afford essential utility services as prices rise towards,
and eventually reach, full cost recovery levels.

Takmg into account these considerations, the government has taken the initial steps of increasing
prices of gas and water.

Inorder to prevent the drastic increase of price the delivery costs of Azerigaz was approved to be
at the level of AZM 30,000 per 1000 m3.The overall cost of recovery of natural gas, including
the operational costs of production, processing and delivery of natural gas i s in the range of
AZM 140,000- 150,000.

                   Gas Tariff IncreasesEffectiveas of November2nd,2004
    1Customer Groups                                     I        AZMper 1000cubic meters
                                                          Old Tariff      I Approved Tariff     1
                                                                            (includingVAT)
     Residential Customers                                         35,560                81,000
                                                                   83,200
     Other (Budget, SOEs, commercial users, etc.)                 106,103
                                                                  194.700              236,000
                                                                  236.000  1

The increase of tariffs will lead to improvements inthe financial-economic activities of Azerigaz
JSC and elimination of subsidies extended to the joint-stock company.

Starting from January 1,2005 the Government, after the review of water prices, established new
tariffs of AzerSU for the areas of the former ARWC as follows:


            Customer group                                       Old            New
                                                              (wlo VAT)      (wlo VAT)

               Domestic                                             185            370
               Budgetfundedentities and equal to those              900          1,200
               Other customers                                    2,500
                                                                  5,300          2,700
               Producersof bottled water                        42,000          42,000
            Technical water                                       1,200          1,200

For new tariffs the customer groups of "Trade and services" and "Industry" were merged in one
group "Other customers". Future increases in water tariffs will be linked to improvements in the
performance of AzerSU and regulations of the power energy tariffs.


                                                 29

At the same time, the government i s cognizant of the importance of accurately measuring the
quantities of electricity, gas and water delivered to state consumers. Currently, actions to approve
and start the implementation of a program to install meters for all consumers of electricity, gas
and water are initiated.

Accordingly, there are precise instructions to the relevant institutions: (i)  to prepare proposals on
the costs of installation of meters required for electricity, gas and water supply services as per the
Presidential Decree dated December 29, 2004 on the State Budget of the Republic of Azerbaijan
for 2005 year, paragraph 17; and (ii)    to ensure the installation of meters, advance these efforts in
accordance with the established completion dates as per the Resolution of the Cabinet of
Ministers dated January 10,2005, No. 8 and January 12,2005 No. 13.

Medium Term Tariff Policy and Envisaged Measures

It is provisioned to resolve the following problems through the approval of the Medium Term
Tariff Policy with implementationperiod of 2005-2010:


    0   The implementation of the Medium Term Tariff Policy taking into the consideration the
        problems stated above in his document;


    0   Untilthe end of the implementation period for the Medium Term Tariff Policy, increase
        tariffs for utility services in a staged fashion that gives full consideration to the
        affordability of these tariff increases;


    0   Recognize the connections between the costs of the various utility services (for example,
        talung into account that the costs for water and wastewater services are heavily
        influenced by the cost of electricity), increase of electricity tariffs together with the tariffs
        for water and wastewater in order to ensure that the objective of full cost recovery can be
        achieved;


    0   Discontinue financial support to utility entities from the State Budget;


    0   Ensurethe sufficiency of tariffs for all utility services to allow full cost recovery, and the
        financial viability of the utility entities;


    0   Motivate restructuring of various utility entities and enterprises, improvement of
        corporate governance, enhancement of quality of services, reduction of losses and
        savings on consumption from the perspectives of resolution of tariffs issues;


    0   Introduce on the basis of successful experience of similar reforms in other countries the
        mechanism for targeted social assistance to low-income families and appliance of such
        mechanism to eliminate the negative impact of tariffs increase;


    0   Review tariffs for power supply until January 2006 in case o f the establishment of
        targeted social assistance mechanism; including:


                                                    30

  0   Regulation of wholesale prices and transmission tariffs for Azerenergy;


  0   Regulation of retail prices for BARMEK and BAYVA;


  0   Regulations of heating energy tariffs.


0 Implement the review of tariffs in the following areas on the basis of the economic
  justification and cost recovery:


  0  Regulation of tariffs for drinking water (by various regions);


  0  Regulation of tariffs for wastewater (by various regions).




                                           31

             i--t+-i


                            6




I   ,   ,   ,




             mi  a 3  rt

           Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and other Agencies
                            AZERBAIJAN: Power TransmissionProject

         Sector issue                    Project


                                                                        Implementation  Development
                                                                         Progress (IP)  Obiective (DO)
Bank-financed
Power Sector Restructuring       PPIAFSupport for Power Sector               na             na
                                 Restructuring
Gas Sector Restructuring         PPIAF Support -Gas Sector                   na             na
                                 Restructuring
Reform of Social Protection       Second Institution Building                 S               S
System                            Technical Assistance (2002, SDR
                                  7.47 mill.)
Gas Infrastructure Rehabilitation Gas System RehabilitationProject            S              U
                                  (2002, SDR 14.1mill.)
Power Sector Restructuring        SAC I1(2002, SDR 48.4 mill)                 S               S

IndependentUtility Regulation     PRSC-1(2005, SDR 13.1mill.)                na              na
                                  PPIAF Support for Development of
                                  Regulatory Framework and
                                  Institutional Capacity inElectricity,
                                  Natural Gas, and Water (2003-04)
Improvement inEffectiveness       Pension and Social Assistance               S               S
and Transparency of Provision     Project (2004, US$10mill.equiv.)
of Pensions and Social
Assistance

Other development agencies
EBRD                              YenikendHydroelectric Plant
                                  Rehabilitation (1994, EUR42 mill
EBRD                              Mingachevir Hydroelectric Plant
                                  Rehabilitation (1997, EUR 17 mill

JBIC                              Reconstruction of Shimal GRES
                                  Power Plant (1998, JPY 20.2
                                  trillion)
KfW                               Substation Rehabilitation Project
                                  (1998 EUR 12 mill.)
KfW                               Second Substation Rehabilitation
                                  Project (2003, EUR 12mill.)

USAID                             Technical Assistance for Utilities
                                  Regulation




                                                    33

                              Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                               AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project

                                            ResultsFramework

                PDO                         Outcome Indicators             Use of Outcome Information

 Improvethe efficiency of the power   Improved efficiency of fuel use per  zontinued high fuel consumption
 transmission operation in Azerbaijan kWh of electricity generatedthrough  3er kWh may indicate that rules of
 through technical and institutional  Economic Dispatch and reduced        xonomic dispatch are being ignored
 strengthening of the generation/     transmission losses.                 ndeference to other considerations
 transmission utility.                                                     which need to be addressed in an
                                      Improved reliability and quality of  institutional context. Alternatively it
 Secondary objective: Contribute to   electricity supply with respect to   nay signal a need for additional
 strengthening Azerenerji's financial frequency and duration of forced     investment in transmission capacity.
 position.                            outages.
                                                                           Zontinued forced outages related to
                                      Inline with legal covenants,         line failures may help to identify
                                      Azerenerji's financial position      xitical problems in other parts of the
                                      would be strengthened (i.e. need for network, signaling a need for
                                      Govt. financial support reduced      additional investment in network
                                      eliminated) as a consequence of (a)  rehabilitation.
                                      tariffs that increase over time to
                                      cover full costs, and (b) increased  Lack of increased payment
                                      payment collections.                 collections (in accordance with
                                                                           contracts with distributors) should
                                                                           (a) trigger actions to ensure that
                                                                           distributors fulfill contractual their
                                                                           obligations and (b) trigger increased
                                                                           financial support to Azerenerji as
                                                                           necessaryto meet its financial needs
                                                                           until the problem is solved.

                                                                           Lack of tariff increase according to
                                                                           agreed plan should trigger a dialogue
                                                                           between the Government and the
I                                                                          Bank, and if necessarytrigger the
                                                                           use of remedies available to the
                                                                           Bank inlegal covenants.




                                                         34

     Intermediate Results            Results Indicators for Each            Use of Results Monitoring
     One per Component                         ComDonent
                                                     I



ComponentOne:                      Component One:                          Zomponent One:
SCADA and Telecommunications       Average fuel consumptionper kWh         'ailure to achieve at least initial
                                   generated will decreaseby 1.5%.         mprovement in fuel consumption
Reduced cost and improved quality                                          indquality of supply may signal that
3f electricity in Azerbaijan.      Gridvoltage and frequency will be       ;ome of the features of the SCADA
                                   maintained within defined ranges        ;ystem are not being used correctly
                                   (voltage within +5%, -10% of            indthat additional training is
                                   nominal at bulk supply points;          .equired.
                                   frequency within 50 Hz k 0.5 Hz).
                                                                           ?oor performance with respect to
                                   Transmission losses will decline        .ransmission loss targets may
                                   from 5.0% to not more than 4.5%,        .ndicate the existence o f non-
                                   with corresponding savings infuel       :ethnical losses which need to be
                                   cost.                                   identified and eliminated.


Component Two:                     Component Two :                         Component Two:
TransmissionNetwork                                                        [frehabilitated lines continue to fail,
Rehabilitation                                                             work may not have been carried out
                                   Forced outages on rehabilitated         inaccordance with specifications
Reduction of forced outages.       transmission lines decline              and work crews' performance will
                                   significantly.                          needto be reviewed and monitored
                                                                           more carefully.
                                   Overall network outages decline.

Component Three:                    Component Three:                       Component Three:
TechnicalAssistanceand Training                                            Delays in the implementation of
                                   Projects are implemented ina timely     project components may mean that
Improved technical and financial   manner.                                 additional implementation support i s
operation of the Azerenerji grid.                                          required.
                                    Azerenerji staff are confident intheir
                                    ability to manage the SCADA            Continued uncertainty on the part of
                                    system without outside assistance.     dispatch staff with respect to the use
                                                                           of the SCADA system may mean
                                    GridCode drafted and adopted.          that additional training i s needed.

                                    Azerenerji has inplace a qualified     Delays indrafting and adopting a
                                    team and competently reports           GridCode may signal either a
                                    accordingto IFRS.                      misunderstanding with respect to its
                                                                           purpose or a more fundamental
                                                                           resistance to the concepts of open
                                                                           network access.

                                                                           IfAzerenerji at end of parallel
                                                                           accounting period still incurs a high
                                                                           number of errors, extended and
                                                                           intensified training may be
                                                                           warranted.




                                                     35

s8
-
ch
0     P3                  g g
8     L"
      4                   0 0
                          e -




                          g g
                           m o o




      *  * *  *    * *




      * 5% *       *  *

s8


o\
0

-
8


N




\o
0
-
0
N

vi
0
8




      .* *h **
            ,-
           C
       * * *
       n*

                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                            Azerbaijan: Power Transmission Project

1.     Project Overview

The proposed project has four main components, as follows:

ComponentA: Power System Management

The component provides an upgrading of Azerenerji's dispatch system and includes the
following subcomponents:


    0  SCADALEMS system implementation. This subcomponent includes installation of the
       necessary hardware and software to enable real time acquisition of operational
       information from generating stations and HV transmission system substations, analysis
       and monitoring of the network status at the National Dispatch Center, and control and
       dispatch of the generating plants and the HV transmission system, to maintain a reliable,
       secure and economic operation, and facilitate financial settlements in a future wholesale
       electricity market. The main elements of the system include the Supervisory Control and
       Data Acquisition (SCADA) system and the Energy Management System (EMS) at the
       National Dispatch Center (NDC), a Backup Control Center (BCC) in Baku, and Remote
       Terminal Units (RTUs) at the generating plants and HV substations. SCADA system
       elements provided under KfW financing will be incorporated into the full-scale
       SCADABMS system.


    0  Telecommunications network upgrade. This subcomponent includes installation of the
       necessary communications equipment - fiber optic cable systems, power line carrier
       systems (PLC), and telephone systems - to meet the communication requirements of
       dispatch, metering and HV network operations and maintenance. It will also provide
       broadband communications facilities between major Azerenerji offices and generating
       plants to support improvements inAzerenerji financial management and administration.


    0  Station adaptation and metering. This subcomponent covers adaptation of generating
       plant and substation control and metering circuits and equipment to provide alarm, status
       and metering inputs to the RTUs and accept control outputs from the RTUs. Since this i s
       the first installation of a SCADA system on the Azerenerji generation and transmission
       network and the majority o f the stations and equipment are very old, it will be a long and
       difficult task to design and install modifications to the station control circuits and
       equipment that will provide inputs to the RTU that will support basic monitoring and
       remote control SCADA functions, plus sequence-of-events recording, disturbance
       analysis and real-time load flow features on the SCADABMS system.              It will also
       include installation of remote access facilities to existing and new energy meters at all
       interconnecting points to the bulk power transmission grid from the generating plants,
       HV interconnections with neighboring networks and each 110 kV and lower voltage
       supply point to the privatized distribution networks to enable accurate control and
       settlement of power sales and impodexport contracts.


                                                38

   0   Fuel meters will also be provided for each major thermal generating unit for economic
        dispatch operations.
The station adaptation work to design, install and test each modification to the existing
substations and generating plants must be performed by a team of Azerenerji engineers and
technicians attached to the PIU. The Azerenerji personnel assigned to this task must be well-
experienced with the existing protection and control systems and be authorized to obtain
assistance from engineers and technicians at each substation and generating plant as and when
required for this task. Azerenerji must begin the station adaptation work immediately, due to the
amount of work involved and the needfor the station adaptation work to be completed before the
RTUs can be connected and the SCADA system put into service. Delays in completion of this
work are the most common and severe cause of delays in completion of SCADMEMSprojects.


ComponentB: TransmissionNetwork Rehabilitation

This component covers the most urgently needed replacement and repair of high voltage
transmission line elements and rehabilitation measures in selected high-voltage substations. Sub-
components originally proposed by Azerenerji included:


    0   repairs to one 500 kV and two 330 kV transmission lines;
    0   replacing damaged conductors with higher rated conductors and replacing porcelain
        insulators with glass insulators on eight 220 kV transmission lines;
    0   replacing towers and conductors on three 110kV transmission lines; and
    0   replacing seven transformers with higher capacity units at one 330 kV, one 220 kV and
        two 110 kV substations, adding a transformer at one 330 kV substation and replacing
        miscellaneous power system apparatus at three other substations.

The network development plan study and associated protection relay coordination analysis under
Component C may also identify high priority, least-cost solutions to improve voltage control,
reactive power support and network stability. These items could also be eligible for financing
under the Loan if considered of higher priority than the components identified during project
preparation, or if funds otherwise are available. Availability of funds for transmission network
rehabilitation will be known after the dispatching system contract price i s determined and that
contract i s awarded.

Component C: Management Assistance

This component consists of technical assistanceto assist with:
        Azerenerji's transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
    0   IntegratedManagement Information System (MIS)
    0   Assets Revaluation
    0   Development of revised GridCode
    0   Transmission costing
    0   Transmission Network Study
        Company and project audits
    0   Dispatch System Procurement (started duringproject preparation)


                                                  39

     0   Project Management and Technical Support
            a. Project management
            b. Procurement assistance
            c. Technical Specialist assistance
            d. Environmental management
     0   Dispatch Training

One of the objectives of this component i s to assist Azerenerji in developing core accounting
systems to meet the requirements of the new Law on Accounting and the company's transition to
InternationalFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) no later than by January 1, 2008. In order to
substantially improve the management of the company, the new financial system will be one of
the core components in an Integrated Management Information System, which would have
functional modules expected to include (but not be limited to) General Ledger, Accounts
Payable, Accounts Receivable, Fixed Assets Management, Materials Management, Personnel
and Payroll, and Report Generator. Revaluation of Assets, to be financed under this component,
i s a precondition for auditors to conclude audits based on IFRS.

Technical Assistance (TA) would also be provided to prepare Azerenerji for a future restructured
energy sector, including the development of a revised Grid Code, and the development of
transmission costing as basis for a separate power transmission tariff.

A Transmission Network Study will incorporate a protection relay coordination study and
address issues o f system stability as well as development plan for the network. The study may
point to high value rehabilitation work and investments that might influence prioritization of
system rehabilitation subcomponents to be financed under this project, although many of the
identified subcomponents have been characterized as "must do" investments.

ComponentD: Project Implementation

This component includes the incremental costs associated with the establishment and operation
of a Project Implementation Unit created by Azerenerji specifically for implementation of this
project.   Items to be financed from the loan include incremental office furnishings and
equipment, incremental office operating expenses; accounting and office software; interpretation
and translations; overseas travel expenses for PIU team members for project-related meetings,
training, and to witness in-plant tests.

Azerenerji has not chosen to use this project for developing corporate capacity in environmental
issues. Environmental TA will be made available as required to ensure implementation of the
project in accordance with Azerbaijan and World Bank environmental standards.

2.       Detailsof TechnicalInvestments

The following sections provide additional detail on the items that will be included in
Components A and B.




                                                  40

2.1      DispatchSystem

Technically satisfactory operation of a generation and HV transmission grid means unimpeded,
reliable, and efficient flow of electricity from generating plants to the distribution utilities
supplying the consumers. To achieve this, the generation and transmission grid must have
adequate transmission lines and substations as well as means to continuously plan, control and
monitor the operation of the complex HV transmission network. Given the nature of the physical
processes involved, grid operation must be centrally monitored and controlled in real time. This
requires continuous collection of information from geographically dispersed facilities
(generating plants and HV substations) and transmission of this information to the National
Dispatch Center and Backup Control Center and communication of dispatch control commands
(either automated or executed by personnel manning the facilities) to locations where action
must be taken. For this reason, a modem power grid dispatch system includes an elaborate
system of data acquisition and metering devices, data transmission and communication channels,
computers and software, physically and functionally integrated to ensure secure and reliable
operation of the grid.

The transmission network in Azerbaijan, with its associated dispatch and communications
facilities, suffers from years of neglect, maintenance backlogs, and lack of investment in
upgrades and new equipment.         Many of the main substations are over 40 years old.         The
substations had previously been well maintained, but maintenance has suffered over the past 10
years or more due to the lack of spare parts and the age of the installations. At present, most of
the problems are the result of insufficient maintenance (lack of funds for spare parts and/or
unavailability of spare parts) and extreme operation conditions (e.g. large number of on-and-off
switching of circuit breakers because of grid overloads and instability).

The existing dispatch system, with its present telemetry equipment and massive, detailed static
mimic diagram board, was installed over two decades ago. It i s based on old Soviet technology,
which i s difficult to maintain, due to unavailability of spare parts. The telemetry system covered
only 450 out of an estimated 5,800 measurement values required from generating plants and
substations in Azerbaijan.     Other real-time data (e.g., equipment alarms, circuit breaker and
transformer tap-changer positions, power flows and bus voltages, energy meter values, etc.) are
not available to the dispatchers and there i s no capability for remote control. Dispatchers rely on
their many years of experience at the NDC in directing operation of the generating plants and
HV network plus an obsolete dispatcher telephone system to obtain updated information on the
status of the grid and issue verbal commands to station operators. This lack of adequate real-
time data and grid overview faculties at the N D C makes an already difficult and complex job
very stressful and frustrating for the dispatchers. Repair and upgrading of the existing, outdated
dispatch and telemetry equipment to meet the requirements for safe, reliable and economic
operation of the generation and HV transmission grid i s not possible. A new SCADA/EMS
system will be provided, including a dispatcher training simulator at the N D C and Remote
Terminal Units (RTUs) at each generating plant andHV substation.

The dispatch system will utilize the following major components, all combined into an integrated
dispatch system:




                                                  41

       SCADAEiMS system consisting of a master station at the National Dispatch Center
       (NDC) and Backup Control Center (BCC) and Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) at
       substations and generating plants, plus a small master station and RTUs for the isolated
       gridin Nakhchivan;
       Telecommunication system, and
       Station control and metering system adaptation at substations and generating plants.

SCADA/EMSSystem

Functional performance technical specifications for the SCADAEMS system will be prepared
by consulting firm KEMA Engineering (in partnership with Dar A1 Handasah, the consortium
hereinafter called KEMA) together with its client Azerenerji. The SCADAEMS system will be
located at the NDC; however, in accordance with industry best practices, a backup control center
(BCC) will also be established (in Baku). The initial SCADA master station provided under
KfWfinancing will be integrated into one of the master stations at the NDC or BCC.

KEMA shall ensure that the following subsystems are adequately defined for the SCADAEMS
system:

a) SCADA system, including, but not limited to data acquisition, supervisory control, data
processing, full graphics man machine interface, alarming, logging, tagging, trending, sequence
of events recording, disturbance data recording, historical data collection and reporting, and data
links.

b) Generation Management System, including, but not limited to load frequency control, tie-line
interchange control, reserve monitoring, economic dispatch, unit commitment, hydro scheduling,
hydro-thermal coordination, production costing, energy accounting and penalty factor
calculations.

c) Network Management System, including, but not limited to network status processor, network
model builder, state estimator, power flow, contingency analysis, transmission loss penalty
factor, dispatcher power flow, optimal power flow, voltage/MVAr scheduler, short-circuit
calculation, dynamic security assessment and available transmission capacity.

d) Operations Planning System, including, but not limited to outage scheduler, short-term load
forecast and transaction evaluation.

e) Dispatcher Training Simulator.

f> Uninterruptible power source for the NDC andthe backup control center.

Telecommunications Network

The existing Azerenerji telecommunications network i s based on power line carrier (PLC) links,
some communication cable carrier systems, a dispatcher telephone system and mobile radios that
are almost entirely obsolete and cannot support the new SCADA/EMS system.                 The new



                                               42

telecommunications network will incorporate digital communications technology and utilize
fiber optic cables for a high-capacity telecommunications backbone to major generating plants
and substations and PLC links to smaller substations. A new dispatchers' telephone system will
also be provided, together with new PABXs at major Azerenerji sites.

The requirements for dispatcher voice, SCADA data, mobile radio, teleprotection signaling, and
other operational communications services were discussed by KEMA with Azerenerji and
analyzed during preparation of the Feasibility Study. Based on these requirements, KEMA
developed a recommended telecommunications network topology. This takes into consideration
the bandwidth requirements to each substation and generating plant, types of equipment suitable
for use in electric utility telecommunications networks, and the costs of the equipment and
installation and testing services. Telecommunications facilities available in Azerbaijan from
other major utilities were also investigated, including Aztelkom, Azerbaijan Railways, and the
BTC oil pipeline, but these organizations had no interest in cooperating with Azerenerji injoint
use or development of communications facilities. KEMA also analyzed the existing Azerenerji
telecommunications network of power line carrier, cable carrier, mobile radio and other
facilities. The mobile radio system in use by Azerenerji i s new and i s considered adequate by
Azerenerji.

The telecommunications network will be based on a fiber optic cable backbone consisting of
three interconnected rings; two short rings (Rings 1 and 2) totaling 43 km in the Apsheron
peninsula and a 988 kmring (Ring 3) westward to the major thermal and hydro generating plants
and Ganja regional office. Fiber optic cable (and power line carrier to smaller stations) spurs
will be established between nodes on the rings and outlying stations to provide required capacity
to these stations. Rings 1and 2 will utilize 24 strand fiber optic cables in underground ducts and
optical ground wire (OPGW) on HV transmission lines. Ring 3 will utilize 12 strand OPGW,
rather than 24 strand, since 12 additional strands would cost about $2 million and there i s no
realistic Azerenerji requirement or other market for this additional capacity.       The existing
obsolete dispatchers' telephone system, PABXs and PBXs will be replaced with a new
dispatchers' telephone system andinterconnected PABXs.

The telecommunications network required for the Nakhchivan grid will likely utilize powerline
carrier and a small dispatcher telephone system with a thin route data link to the NDC.

Functional performance technical specifications to be prepared by Azerenerji and KEMA for the
telecommunications network equipment shall ensure that the following subsystems are
adequately defined:

         Dispatcher telephone system;
         SCADA data network;
         Teleprotection signaling channels between HV substations;
         Azerenerji operations and administration telephone system;
         Broadband Wide Area Network (WAN) linking major Azerenerji offices and generating
         plants on the fiber optic network;
         Telecom quality 48 Vdc battery and charger plants for the RTUs and telecommunications
         equipment at substations, generating plants and major offices; and



                                                43

(g)     Other telecommunications facilities required by Azerenerji for efficient and effective
        operations.

Station Adaptation and Metering

Station adaptation and improvements to the energy metering equipment are required at
generating plants and substations.     This will involve adaptation of the station control and
metering circuits and equipment for interconnection with the RTUs. Due to the age of the
stations and equipment and the large number of RTU input and output points required, this will
be a difficult and lengthy task.

KEMA discussed the size of SCADAEMS system with Azerenerji and identified the types of
input and output points for a typical RTU and the transducers and station adaptation work
required for each type of point to provide the real-time data required for proper operation of the
SCADA andEMS functions.

Energy meters were installed at HV substations in 2001/2002 at the interconnection points with
the privatized distribution utilities and generating plants. The meters record real and reactive
power flows and are presently read manually by Azerenerji station personnel, however the
meters are equipped for interconnection with SCADA RTUs. Azerenerji and KEMA estimate
that 160 additional meters will be required to replace other existing but obsolete meters used for
both commercial and operational metering. The existing voltage transformers (VT) and current
transformers (CT) associated with the energy meters and SCADA telemetry varies in age and
accuracy. Some will need to be replaced, but the quantities required will only be determined
during detailed design of the station adaptation works. Fuel meters will be provided for the 17
major thermal generating units at the three major thermal generating plants to enable accurate
on-line modeling and economic dispatch of these units.

Technical specifications are to be prepared by KEMA for required transducers, meters, cables
and other material required for station adaptation by Azerenerji personnel. The Bill of Material
for the cables and other material required for station adaptation will be prepared by the
Azerenerji PIU, based on designs prepared by the Azerenerji project team responsible for
designing and implementing the adaptations required at each generating plant and substation.

2.2     Rehabilitationof SubstationsandTransmissionLines

Rehabilitation of transmission facilities (HV transmission lines and equipment at substations)
will improve system reliability and efficiency and enable better integration with the neighboring
networks.

Consulting firm Burns and Roe performed load flow and short circuit studies in 2003 as part of
the Prioritization of Investment Needs for Power Generation and Transmission report funded by
EBRD. The Burns and Roe study identified transmission line and substation rehabilitation items
required in 2006/2007 and beyond to relieve transmission network overloading, primarily on the
110kV network and also transmission network additions that would be requiredfor the proposed
400 MW generating plant at Shimal on the Apsheron peninsula. The report also attributes the



                                                44

causes of the major power system outages during the winters of 2001 and 2002 and the blackout
in June 2002 to insufficient generation capacity, transmission line overloads and protection relay
settings. The system has suffered from a lack of regular maintenance, due to non-availability of
spare parts, and due to the age of the installations. Most of the equipment i s more than 40 years
old and in some substations even older than 50 years, which i s well beyond the expected physical
lifetime.

Azerenerji identified a list of the most urgently needed transmission rehabilitation measures,
based on their knowledge of the network and the rehabilitation items beingfunded by KfW. The
items can be summarized as follows:

        a) replacing 1,980 corroded anchor bolts with preformed concrete anchors on guyed
            towers, replacing 17 and adding 3 towers, replacing 13,950 porcelain insulators with
            glass insulators and installing various transmission line hardware on one 500 kV and
            two 330 kV lines,
        b) replacing damaged ACSR (AluminumConductor Steel Reinforced) conductors with
            higher capacity ACSR conductors and replacing 29,300 old porcelain insulators with
            glass insulators, installing various transmission line hardware and reinforcing tower
            cross arms on eight 220 kV transmission lines,
        c) replacing copper conductors with higher capacity ACSR conductors, replacing
            porcelain with glass insulators and installing various transmission line hardware on
            three 110kV transmission lines, and
        d) replacingfour autotransformers with higher ratedunitsat one 330 kV and one 220 kV
            substations, adding a transformer at one 330 kV substation, replacing three 330 kV
            circuit breakers at a substation, replacing three transformers with higher rated units at
            two 110 kV substations and replacing a station battery and a bank of 10 kV
            switchgear at two 110kV substations.

Discussions with Azerenerji regarding the items proposed indicated that Azerenerji will have
competent and adequate construction and maintenance personnel to handle installation and
testing of the rehabilitation items, rather than having the work done by international or local
contractors. The PIU will be responsible for arranging for procurement of the material and
equipment involved and for coordination of the tasks within the rehabilitation items.

Azerenerji have also requested an Asset Management software package to improve network
reliability and reduce the costs of maintenance and asset renewals and additions. Azerenerji also
propose purchase of insulator washing equipment and note that some of the existing current
transformers and voltage transformers may require replacement to meet the requirements of the
upgraded energy metering system, if adequate funds are available from the loan.

Cost estimates are based on the Feasibility Study conducted by KEMA, an international
consultant firm with broad experience in this type of project. The estimates are consistent with
similar projects in the region.      Physical contingencies were estimated at 5 percent.      Price
contingencies for locally procured goods and services were based on the I M F N o r l d Bank
projections for Azerbaijan, and for imported equipment were based on World Bank projections
for the international manufacturers' unit value (Muv)index.



                                                  45

                                      Annex 5: Project Costs
                        AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project



Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                     Local         Foreign          Total
                                                           US$000           US$ 000        US$000

Transmission Network Rehabilitation                                *                *             *
                                              Sub-total       6,476          39,338         45,814
Management Assistance                                           295           2,988          3,283
Project Implementation                                          361             338            699
Unallocated                                                        0            240            240
                                 Total Baseline Cost          7,132          42,904         50,036
Physical Contingencies                                          366           2,199          2,564
Price Contingencies                                             366           2,199          2,565
                                Total Project Costs'          7,864          47,301         55,165
Front-end Fee                                                      0            240            240
                         Total Financing Required             7,864          47,541         55,405

* Detail suppressed.
'There are no identifiable taxes or duties; the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$55.41 million.
Therefore, the project cost net of taxes i s 100percent of the project cost.




                                                  46

                           Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                        AZERBAIJAN: Power TransmissionProject


The executing agency responsible for project management and implementation would be the
Borrower, Azerenerji OJSC (open joint stock company). Azerenerji i s the state-owned enterprise
responsible for operation and management of the high-voltage transmission network and the
major thermal and hydroelectric generating stations.

On the Government's side (the Government providing sovereign guarantee), executing agency
would be the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry, and in some cases the Borrower, would provide
coordination with other Government agencies, notably Ministry of Economic Development
(MED), Ministry of Industry and Energy (ME),Cabinet of Ministers, and the Tariff Council,
and with bilateral and multilateral financing agencies as needed. The Ministry of Finance may
delegate some Government coordination and oversight responsibilities to other ministries (MED
and/or ME)that these ministries are believedto have the capacity to handle.

Azerenerji has established a Project Implementation Unit for the proposed project, reporting to
the Chief Engineer (First Deputy President) and staffed by specialists in technical, financial,
environmental, and procurement matters, to act as the Bank's counterpart on day-to-day matters.
The PIU i s currently responsible for project preparation.     Once the loan i s approved and
effective, the PIU will be responsible for project implementation, including procurement,
contract supervision and management, and project financial management, including project
accounting, financial reporting, loan disbursements, and arrangements for external audit.




                                               47

             Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                          AZERBAIJAN: Power TransmissionProject

1.     Summary and Conclusions-Financial Management

An assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems at the Azerenerji
and the PIU within Azerenerji was carried out during project preparation, and updated at
appraisal, to ensure the systems can provide to the Bank accurate and timely information
regarding project resources and expenditures. The Project's financial management systems meet
Bank requirements for project implementation.         Such systems include accounting, financial
reporting, staffing, internal controls, auditing, and loan disbursements arrangements. The PIU
has installed a LOGO system for accounting and financial reporting for both the company and
the Project. The Project system has been customized to automatically generate the quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports.

The LOGO systedsoftware has multi-currency and multi-language capacity and would be used
for general accounting and reporting to local authorities and to the Bank. The accounting books
and records are maintained on accrual basis and project financial statements presented in U S
Dollars and in local currency (Manat). The PIU will prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports comprised of financial reports, project progress reports and
procurement management reports. The PIU would also submit monthly, quarterly and annual
reports on sources and uses of funds to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and
Energy, and the National Bank. In addition, the PIU would be required to submit statistical
accounting statements to the Ministry of Taxes and the Department of Statistics. The accounting
policies and procedures that are an integral part of internal controls are considered adequate, and
are documented in an Accounting and Financial Management Manual. The key staff of the PIU
(director, accountant and procurement specialist) are employees of Azerenerji selected from
various departments. The project accountant i s the deputy chief accountant of Azerenerji who i s
a qualified and experienced accountant. H e i s currently the accountant for an ongoing EBRD
loan and the PHRD Grant used for preparing the Power Transmission Project.

The proposed project includes a TA component to further develop Azerenerji's (the company)
integrated accounting system and assisting the company in the implementation of International
Financial Reporting Standards and related management information systems.

Overall financial management risk for the Project i s considered moderate.

2.      Country Issues

The Azerbaijan Country Financial Accountability Assessment diagnostic work carried out in
2002 recommended accounting and auditing regulatory and institutional reforms to increase
accountability and good governance inthe country. Most of the key CFAA recommendations on
legal and regulatory reforms and institutional capacity building are addressed in the proposed
three Poverty Reduction Strategy Credits (PRSCs), and the recently approved Institutional
Development Fund Grant on Accounting and Auditing Reforms. A new Accounting Law and
related secondary regulation mandating use o f International Financial Reporting Standards



                                                 48

(IFRS) for public interest entities and governmental enterprises, and International Public Sector
Standards (IPSA) for the public sector has been approved by Parliament. The Accounting Law
would assure greater transparency and accountability of public funds. In parallel, the enactment
of the new Audit Law currently under preparation, and establishment of regulatory and
institutional frameworks for the Chamber of Accounts, the Country's Supreme Audit Institution
and the Chamber of Auditors, the audit profession regulator and standard-setter would provide
greater transparency and comparability of financial Reporting.

3.        RiskAnalysis-Financial Management

Risksassociated with the Project's financial management systems are summarized below, and
outlined in a report available in the Project files.




                                                 accountability and governance.




                                                 PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 7. Reportingand Monitoring         Moderate     Quarterly FMRs to be agreedat negotiations
  8. Information Systems            Moderate     Upgraded systeminplace and operational.

 Overall Control Rxk               IModerate    I
H-High         S - Substantial M-Moderate     N-Negligible or Low

4.        Strengthsand Weaknesses


Although the PIU has not implemented other World Bank financed projects, the staff have
experience in implementing EBRD and KfW funded projects.                      The timing of the ongoing
accounting and auditing reforms in the country and policy reforms under planned PRSCs would
mitigate risks and benefit the Azerenerji in capacity building and in the transition from National
Accounting Standards to International Financial Reporting Standards (as supported financially
under this project).



                                                   49

5.      Implementing Entity

The project will be managed and implemented by Azerenerji through the PIU established with
overall responsibility for procurement, contract supervision and management, and project
financial management, including financial reporting, loan disbursements, and arrangements for
external auditing b y independentauditors. Ministry of Finance would be the formal counterpart
in the Government (the Guarantor), but some coordination responsibilities may be delegated to
the Ministry of Economic Development (MED)and or the Ministry of Industry and Energy.

6.      Staffing

The key staff o f the PIU include: Project Director, Finance Officer, Project Accountant/
Disbursement Officer and Procurement Specialist, all selected from technical units within
Azerenerji, and with experience in implementing other international donor-funded projects. The
Project Accountant i s the Deputy Chief Accountant of Azerenerji.          Focused local and
international training in financial management, disbursements, international accounting and
auditing standards will be provided through the project to the PIU accounting and financial
management staff. The selected accountant for the PIUhas already taken training offered by the
EUTACIS on international accounting and auditing standards, and Bank workshop on the new
Audit Policy.

7.       Flow of Funds

The Bank Loan of US$48.0 million and Government counterpart funds of US$7.4 million will
finance the project costs estimated at US$55.4 million. The funds will be disbursed through the
Bank's traditional disbursement procedures described in the disbursement arrangements
paragraph of this PAD. The Bank Loan will be provided directly to Azerenerji and the
Government will provide a sovereign guarantee. Disbursements from the IBRD Loan will be
transaction based to finance eligible expenditures for goods, works, technical assistance, and
recurrent costs based on the disbursement percentages agreed in the Loan Agreement.         To
facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower will establish, maintain, and operate a
Special Account denominated in US dollars, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The Special Account will be held in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. Other methods
of loan disbursements will include reimbursements, disbursements on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs), and direct payments.

8.       ExistingAccounting Structure, Systems, and Controls

The current Azerenerji organization structure within the financial management and accounting
function consists of three departments segregated along the following lines: (i)  Finance; (ii)
Accounting; and (iii)  Planning. The Accounting Department i s responsible for recording and
summarizing transactions, and reporting the results periodically to management and relevant
Government entities. Currently, the Accounting Department at the Head Office uses an in-house
designed accounting system for consolidating financial accounts and information received from
the subsidiaries. The accounting i s decentralized at the subsidiary level. Statutory forms are



                                               50

prepared quarterly by the subsidiaries and submitted to the Head Office for consolidation of the
accounts and financial reporting to various Government entities. Each of the subsidiaries has a
Chief Accountant who in turn reports to the Chief Accountant at the Head Office.
Consolidations and financial reporting i s based on modified accrual accounting applying
National Accounting Standards.

9.     Accounting Policiesand Procedures

The existing accounting policies and procedures that are an integral part of the internal control
environment, and have been updated and documented in an Accounting and Procedures Manual
(the Manual) to enable management to monitor accounting transactions at all levels of project
management.


10. ProposedAccounting Systemand Financial Reporting

Greater centralization of accounting functions and full automation of the accounting and
financial reporting system would allow financial information to be collected and reports
generated off source data in the general ledger, and allow for uniform policies and procedures.
The upgraded system would be used for accounting and financial reporting for the Project,
instead of inventing a stand-alone system for the project. Delays and loss of data will be
minimized, and adequate controls put in place compared to the current decentralized system.
Books of accounts and financial reporting would be based on modified accrual basis of
accounting.    Azerenerji i s required under the new Accounting Law to apply International
Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

11.     Reporting and Monitoring

Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be prepared for the Project and submitted
to the Bank no later than 45 days after end of each quarter. The FMRs will comprise of: (i)
Financial Reports; (ii)Project Progress Report; and (iii)Procurement Management Report.
These reports will provide information on the progress of the project in terms of financial
activity, key output measures and procurement for the relevant quarter. The reporting and format
of the F M R s was confirmed at negotiations.

Azerenerji's financial statements comprising of balance sheets, income statements, statement
showing changes in equity, cash flow statements and notes to the financial statements, will be
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.


12. Auditing Arrangement

External Audit. The World Bank New Audit Policy will be applied. Although a single audit for
Azerenerji financial statements will be issued, the selected auditor will however review
arrangements surrounding use of the Special Account and the Statements of Expenditure. The
audit will be carried out by independent auditors in accordance with standards and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit report for Azerenerji financial statements, including
Project financial statements, will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each


                                               51

fiscal year, and also at the closing of the project. As agreed with Azerenerji, and on condition
the   Bank     procurement     agrees,   Azerenerji   will  retain  the   current    auditors   of
PricewaterhouseCoopers as auditors for the Project. The contract for the audit would be awarded
during the first year of project implementation and extended subject to satisfactory performance.
The cost of the audit will be eligible for financing under the Loan. The auditing arrangements
were confirmed at negotiations.

Zntemal Audit. A proper internal audit function being an appraisal to examine, evaluate and
monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the accounting and internal control systems, i s rather
weak in Azerbaijan. A strategy to develop an internal audit function in the country i s being
addressedunder the PRSC.

13.     FinancialCovenants.

Azerenerji and the PIU will be required to maintain a financial management system, including
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank,
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. Quarterly
F M R s will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after end of each subsequent calendar
quarter. The accounts and financial statements would be audited each year by independent
auditors, and audit submittedto the Bank no later than six months after end of each year audited.
Other financial covenants are elaborated inthe financial analysis section of the PAD.

14.     Impactof ProcurementArrangements

Based on diagnostic work carried out under the Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR) issued in June 2003, the legal framework, enforcement regime and procurement
capacity were identified as areas that require strengthening. Azerbaijan has introduced a new
Public Procurement Law (PPL) that i s based extensively on the United Nations Commission for
International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) model. The PPL has set up a three-tier review system
that consists of an internal administrative review by the State Procurement Agency (SPA) and
judicial review. Perception of the courts' ability to deal with procurement disputes i s poor, thus
jeopardizing the SPA'Slevel of confidence and overall transparency in the review process. The
SPA has been vested with the procurement regulatory functions and has shown a willingness to
ensure compliance with the Public Procurement Law (PPL).

 15.     SupervisionPlan

During project implementation, the financial management staff would conduct risk-based
financial management assessment to ascertain that: (i)financial accounting and reporting i s
adequate; (ii) flow arrangements of the project effectively support the project's objectives;
               funds
and (iii) the quarterly FMRs and the annual audit reports (with accompanying Management
Letters) are submitted on time, and meet legal requirements.




                                                 52

16. Disbursement Arrangements

The table below sets forth the Categoriesof itemsto be financedout of the proceedsof the Loan,
the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures
for items so to be financedineach Category:

Allocation of Loan Proceeds:

                                   Amount of the
                                  Loan Allocated
                                   (Expressedin
                Category              Dollars)     % of Expendituresto beFinanced

                                          160,000 80%


                                       44,5 10,000 100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                    100%of local expenditures(ex-
                                                   factory costs), and 80% of local
                                                   expendituresfor other items
                                                   procuredlocally

(3)      Consultants' Services          2,470,000  75% of local expendituresfor
         and Audits                                individual consultantsdomiciled
                                                   within the territory of the
                                                   Guarantor, 95% of local
                                                   expenditures for consultingfirms
                                                   domiciled within the territory of
                                                   the Guarantor, 85% of foreign
                                                   expenditures for services of other
                                                   consultants, and 100%of eligible
                                                    socialcharges

(4)      Training                         100,000 100%


(5)      Incremental Operating            280,000 75%, and 100%of eligible social
         costs                                      charges

(6)      Front-endFee                     240,000 Amount due under Section2.04
                                                    of this Agreement

(7)      Unallocated                      240,000


         TOTAL                       - 48,000,000




                                               53

Disbursements from the IBRD Loan will be transaction-based to finance eligible expenditures
for goods, works, technical assistance, and recurrent costs consistent with Country Financing
Parameters for Azerbaijan.          To facilitate timely project implementation, the borrower will
establish, maintain, and operate a Special Account denominated in U S dollars under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will be held in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be made on
not less than quarterly basis.            The Special Account will have an initial allocation of
US$l,OOO,OOO.     Once cumulative disbursements under the loan have reached US$5,000,000, the
allocation will increase to US$2,000,000. Payments in excess of 20 percent of Special Account
will be made through direct disbursement from the Loan Account. Available Loan disbursement
methods include reimbursements with full documentation, reimbursements on basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) for small expenditures within agreed threshold'*, and
payments against Special Commitments. The main contract under Component A (Power System
Management) will be paid by direct payment from the Loan Account.




l1Reference small contracts thresholds established inthe Procurement section of the PAD.


                                                        54

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
                           Azerbaijan: Power TransmissionProject


 1.    General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general description of various
items under different expenditure category are described below and summarized in Table 1. For
each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and
time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team in the Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan would be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project, would include: contracts procured
under NCB procedures. The procurement would be carried out using the National SBD agreed
with the Bank.

Procurement of Goods: The majority of the equipment to be procured requires installation.
Therefore, most of the Goods will be procured through World Bank Standard Supply and
Installation Bidding Document.        Procurement for the transmission system and other
miscellaneous equipment will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Hardware and Software for the Management Information System (MIS) will be procured through
Shopping. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all International
Competitive Bidding (ICB).      Goods through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's NCB procedures, agreed with the Bank. Shopping
of Goods under a specific threshold will be carried out by comparing price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers.

Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting may be
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method.

Selection of Consultants: Consultants' services would include Transmission Network Study,
Development of Grid Code, Accounting and Management Information System and Project
Management (firms selected under Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) and Consultant
Qualifications (CQS) procedure). A few Project Management individual consultants will be
selected by comparison of at least three CVs.

Incremental Operating Cost: The project will finance the incremental operating costs of about
US$380,000 to oversee and manage the project, including: (a) PlU and other professionals'
travel expenses locally and internationally; (b) communications, maintenance and operation cost




                                                55

for equipment procured or used under the project, and (c) training expenses locally and
international1y.

2.      Assessmentof the ProjectImplementationUnit'scapacityto implementprocurement

The project activities would be implemented by the PIU, consisting of full time Azerenerji staff
dedicated for the proposed project. It would include the Head of the Technical Department, as
well as specialists in Procurement, Financial Management, and IT. The PIU would ensure that
procurement of goods, works and services will be carried out in a timely manner, in accordance
with World Bank guidelines, manage project funds, maintain accounts, get the accounts audited,
ensure adequate budget provisions for the PIU, facilitate the work of consultants and workmg
groups, review consultant outputs, organize acceptance testing of SCADNEMS system etc. The
head of the PIUwould ensure that the PIU has access to decision-makers at the appropriate level
and can bring emerging implementation or coordination problems to their notice in a timely and
proactive manner.

An assessment of the capacity of the PIUto implement procurement actions for the project was
carried out by Mr. Gurcharan Singh, Sr. Procurement Specialist, on October 18, 2004. The
assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the interaction
between the project's staff responsible for procurement and the relevant central unit for
administration and finance in the Ministry of Energy and Azerenerji.          Most of the risks
concerning the procurement component for implementation of the project have been identified.
The PIU, including the procurement officer, has some experience in procuring goods under
EBRD, ADB and Islamic bank loans. The PlU has no experience in carrying out procurement
under an IBRD/IDA loan or credit. The corrective measure which has been agreed i s to send the
procurement officer and head of the PIU for World Bank procurement training in L O or any
other suitable institute. Further, TA for procurement support will be contracted as required under
the project.

The overall project risk for procurement i s ratedhigh.

3.      ProcurementPlan

The Borrower's consultant KEMA developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation
that provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been further developed in
discussions with the Bank. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually or more frequently if
required to reflect the project implementation needs. The Procurement Plan will be available in
the Project's database and on the Bank's external website, without indicating the estimated costs
ifrequiredbythe borrower.




                                                 56

                          Table 1:Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                          (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                                        Procurement Method'

                                   ICB                NCB           Other2           N.B.F.            Total Cost
1. Works                           0.20                              5.7S3             0.00               5.98
                                                                     0.00
                                  (0.16)             (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)              (0.16)
2. Goods                           43.6               0.70            0.9              0.00                45.3
                                  (42.9)                             (0.8)
                                                     (0.00)                           (0.00)              (44.5)
3. Consultant Services             0.00               0.00            2.87             0.00                2.87
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)          (2.46)           (0.00)              (2.46)
4. Operating Cost                  0.00               0.00            0.77             0.00                0.77
                                  (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.38)           (0.00)              (0.38)
5. Front End Fee                                                      0.24                                0.24-
                                                                     (0.24)                               (0.24)
6. Unallocated                                                        0.24                                 0.24
                                                                     (0.24)                               (0.24)

   Total                           44.4               6.48            4.05             0.00                55.4
                                  (44.3)             (0.00)          (3.70)            (0.00)             (48.0)


       Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

        Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough shopping, consulting services, training, technical assistance
      services, and incremental operating costs related to managingthe project.

       The entire amount of US$5.78 mill. less US$40,000 i s inkindcontribution from Azerenerji




4.     BankReview of Procurement Decisions

            a) ICB Contracts estimated to cost above US$ equivalent 600,000 per contract and
                all Direct Contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

            b) ICB for Works contracts estimated to cost above US$lmillion or equivalent per
                contract and all direct contracts will be subject to prior review.

            c) First contract through NCB and Shopping.




                                                        57

  1                          Table 2: ConsultantSelection Arrangements
                                        (US$ million equivalent)

   (3rmmt        I QCBS     ISFB

   Expenditure                          ILcs




(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$ equivalent 100,000(Firms)per contract or
above US$50,000 equivalent (Individual consultants) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per
contract, may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

5.     Procurement Strategy for Component A: Power System Management

The procurement strategy i s to procure the required Azerenerji SCADABMS system,
telecommunications network, and metering equipment in a single, turnkey contract.           This
contract will be awarded through a two stage bidding process in accordance with World Bank
standard bidding procedures. Prequalification of bidders took place during project preparation.
The first stage bidding documents will contain functional specifications.      On this basis the
bidders will develop a complete technical proposal and include both technical and commercial
statements of compliance, but will not include any prices or pricing data.         The technical
proposals of each qualified bidder will then be evaluated and discussed with the bidders to
establish a common baseline for the second stage bids. The qualified bidders will be invited to
submit second stage bids in accordance with the modified technicalkommercial conditions,
together with complete prices. These bids will then be evaluated for compliance with the revised
technicalkommercial conditions and ranked in accordance with the stated bid evaluation criteria
(technical bidprice bid formula). The highest ranked bidder will then be invited to negotiate a
contract.




                                                 58

                           Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                         AZERBAIJAN: Power TransmissionProject


1.       Economic and Financial Rates of Return

1.1      Component A: Power SystemManagement (SCADAEMS System)

Capital cost: The overall capital cost of the SCADA/EMS system i s estimated to be $[detail
suppressed] million including contingencies of 10%. The system i s expected to take four years
to install, with expenditures beginningin the first quarter of 2006.

Benefits: The installation of a modern SCADALEMS system will fundamentally improve the
operational work of Azerenerji in almost all its aspects. In some instances, the degree of
improvement i s difficult to quantify or to value (for example, the effects of better maintenance
scheduling, extension of asset life and improved billing resulting in lower commercial losses).
Other benefits, however, can more readily be quantified and valued. Specifically, the types of
benefits considered inthe IRR analysis were as follows:

             1) improvements inpower plant scheduling resulting inlower overall fuel costs;
             2) lower transmission losses;
             3) lower operational costs in administration, data logging and reporting;
             4) improved systemrestoration time after unplanned outages; and
             5) deferred expenditure on new generation.

Zmproved Scheduling:       The Azerenerji generating system consists of seven thermal plants
comprising 27 units. Some of these are combined-heat-and-power units, some are power only.
There are also four hydro-stations with 15 units. The location of the main thermal plants i s not
optimal as they are situated far from the main demand centers. They are designed to bum both
natural gas and fuel oil though their performance i s less efficient when using oil. Additionally,
there i s an active connection to Russia that i s usedto import electricity, and a connection to Iran
that i s usedfor wheeling power to the Azerbaijan enclave of Nakhchivan. There are also plans to
re-establish a 330 kV link to Georgia.

The Azerenerji system i s relatively complex for its demand load. It i s controlled currently by a
central dispatch center in Baku that i s of obsolete design and suffers from poor maintenance and
lack of spare parts. As a consequence, station dispatch operates at below optimal levels resulting
in losses due to lower overall system efficiency.              With the proposed SCADA and
communications system, scheduling of thermal plants could be improved so as to make better
use of those with higher efficiency. The improvement in scheduling would also include a more
optimal use of the hydro resource whose operation i s made more complex by the fact that some
of the dams are also used for irrigation and drinkmg water supply.

At the margin, the variable costs saved as a result of improved scheduling of generating plants
are primarily fuel, either in the form of fuel saved or in the form of scheduling lower-cost plants
at higher loads. The average fuel costs of Azerenerji have been rising steadily in recent years as
the natural gas used in power generation i s increasingly imported from Russia. Thus, while the


                                                  59

average cost of gas in 2002 was $34.10 per MCM, it i s likely in the future to approach the price
of imports (approximately $53 per M C M in 2004, rising to $60 per M C M in 2005). Assuming a
75/25 mix between gas and mazut (measured in GJ equivalent), the average cost of fuel per kWh
i s expected to rise from the 2002 level of $0.0138/kWh to $0.0217/kWh in 2004. At the margin,
the cost per kWh would be $0.0268 based on the price of imported gas. Using these estimates,
the projected financial fuel bill for Azerenerji in 2005 would be $563 million (based on average
fuel costs per kWh). The economic cost, based on the marginal cost of imported gas, would be
approximately 24 percent higher (US$696 million).

Given current data limitations, it i s impossible to forecast with any accuracy the improvements
that can be achieved by a modern SCADAEMS system installed on the current Azerenerji
network. A conservative estimate based upon international experience i s that overall fuel use
will be reduced by 1.5%. The total projected fuel cost was calculated based on the 2005 average
and marginal costs described above, and assumed to increase in proportion to forecast growth in
demand as postulatedin the Burns & Roe12base case forecasts. The resultant savings associated
with the installation of the SCADA system in 2010 (the first year of full operation of the system)
were estimated at $9.1 million for the financial analysis, and $11.2 million per year for the
economic analysis. These savings would increase on an annual basis in proportion to demand
growth.

Lower Transmission Losses: The electricity system inAzerbaijan was reported to have technical
losses in 2002 of 11.8%, a significant reduction on losses up to 2000 when around 16% was lost
annually. It i s not clear whether this drop was a result entirely of technical improvement as
commercial losses increased in 2002 to 5.2% from a claimed 0% in 2000. The transmission
system i s reportedto have technical losses of about 5%.

The introduction of SCADA will allow more efficient use of the national transmission system
and, consequently, lower overall transmission losses. As with improvements in scheduling, such
improvement i s difficult to quantify although experience with other systems suggests that it will
occur. An improvement of 0.5% was assumed for this analysis; that i s transmission losses were
assumed to decline from the current 5% to 4.5%. The resultant benefits were measured as the
value of avoided fuel consumption expressed in both financial and economic terms. In 2010, the
financial benefits to Azerenerji are projected at $3.0 million while the economic benefits are
projectedto be $3.7 million.

Lower Operating Costs: Logging and transmitting data presently consumes a significant amount
of resources within the Azerenerji organization.             The company prepared an estimate of the
operational savings likely to arise as a result of SCADA installation, which totaled $315,400
annually.    The areas of savings included accounting and financial reporting, preparation of
techno-economic       data, computerized preparation of financial data, human resources
management, computerization of O&M data, reduction in communications expenses, and
investment planning.




 l2l2Burns andRoeInc.: "Republic of Azerbaijan: Prioritizationof InvestmentNeedsfor Power Generationand
Transmission", November 2003.


                                                      60

At the same time, there will be additional O&M costs for the new SCADAEMS system. Based
on international experience with such systems, the incremental O&M costs are estimated at 1.5%
of the capital cost per annum - approximately $[detail suppressed].

Improved Outage Times: The introduction of a modem SCADA system would allow much
faster restoration times following transmission system outages as the overall system operating
conditions will be provided more quickly and more accurately to the dispatchers.                             In such
situations, although the fault causing failure may only be transient, the process of restorationmay
take some time, particularly if failure has occurred over a wide area. Typically, restoration times
can be reduced from an average of three hours to only one hour, resulting in large economic
savings interms of outage time.

Data on large-scale regional or national outages show that these are rather rare. In 2003, there
were 16 such outages with a load-shed of between 97 and 845 MW. These were clearly severe
incidents but the longest lasted less than 20 minutes, a period that would not have been
significantly shortened by a SCADA system. In 2002, there was a major national outage as a
result of a cascade collapse of the system. It took over 22 hours to fully recover the system from
this event with power being restored gradually throughout the day. The total system loss from
this event i s estimated at 6 181 MWh with a financial value of approximately $125,000 at an
average tariff of $20/MWh. For Azerenerji, however, the benefit i s lower since they would lose
only the margin between the selling price of the electricity and the variable cost of generation.
Given the low level of tariffs, the financial benefit i s negligible.

The actual economic loss to the economy was estimated in terms of customer willingness-to-pay
for the power that was lost during the outage.                Willingness to pay was estimated, for this
analysis, based on the premise that when power i s cut off, consumers will turn to alternatives to
provide the services provided by electricity and these alternatives will usually be higher cost.
There are a wide range of possibilities for such alternatives including gas, oil and wood for
heating, kerosene for lighting and the use of diesel-powered generators for industrial consumers
and, possibly, for household and commercial consumers to provide an alternative source of
electricity.

There i s only limited data available on which to base an assessment of willingness to pay in
Azerbaijan, though recent data suggests that it may be quite high. Estimates of the price
elasticity of demand in the country13 are that it i s about -0.2, that i s a 10% rise in prices produces
a 2% drop in consumption if income remains constant. This i s rather lower figure than has been
found in many other countries. For example, a similar elasticity in India i s between -0.29 and -
0.51, whilst in developed countries such as the UK and USA, a figure of about -0.5 i s usual.
Such statistical estimates can be misleading but a low negative price elasticity does suggest that
residential consumers are prepared to pay rather higher prices without altering their consumption
greatly. However, such statistics, whilst indicative, do not provide the key price numbers.

Willingness-to-pay will vary across different consumers so, in principle, a weighted average of
the range of consumers should be used. Based upon estimates for other Caucasus and Central



 l3Short-term social, rural and environmental implications of residential electricity tariff rebalancing in Azerbaijan,
July 142004


                                                        61

Asian countries, a figure of $0.16/kWh for diesel generation, the normal alternative for industry
and commerce, and $0.25/kWh for kerosene lighting i s reasonable. About 60% of power sales
are to household and commercial customers so a weighted average of $0.215/kWh was used as
the economic value of electricity. On this basis, the cost of the 2002 outage would have been
approximately $1.32 million.

A modern SCADAEMS system would have allowed a much faster recovery from such an
outage, probably at least cutting it in half. The problem with estimating the value of the SCADA
system i s in estimating the frequency of such relatively rare events. It was assumed for this
analysis that one would occur every four years and that a SCADAEMS system would save half
the cost of the 2002 outage, that i s $0.66 million ineconomic terms.

Deferred Generation Expenditure:         Reduction in transmission losses and improvements in
generation scheduling including power import will enable the current generating system to
operate for a longer period without additional capacity. The benefit would be equivalent to the
capital cost savings of such deferral measured in equivalent interest charges (financial and
economic). In their system study, Burns and Roe proposed that a new 400MW combined-cycle
plant should be built in 2007. The cost of this unit i s assumed to be approximately $200 million.
A one-year deferral of such expenditure would also defer between $10 million and $30 millionin
financing charges (depending on whether the financing was concessionary or commercial) for
that year. The implicit economic benefit of this is, in effect, the interest that would be gained by
investing such a sum for one year, which would be a one-time benefit of between $1- 3 million
at 10%. Given the relatively small value of the benefit, as well as the uncertainty with respect to
i t s timing (a number of other factors, including tariff increases, end-user efficiency
improvements, and access to less-costly fuels for heating and coolung could substantially defer
the need for new generation capacity), it was decidedto omit this from the IRR calculations.

Overall Rate of Retum to SCADNEMS System: The quantifiable costs and benefits of the
SCADAEMS system over a 20-year period are shown in financial and economic terms in Tables
1and 2 below. Because installation will be substantively completed by the end of 2008, 75% of
the expected full benefits were assumed to accrue in 2009.

Financial intemal rate of retum (FZRR): The benefits of improved scheduling and lower
transmission losses are calculated as a percentage of forecast average fuel cost (assuming a 75:25
mixture of gas and mazut). The benefits of lower outage time are based on tariffs. The base-
case FER of the SCADAEMS system over a period of 20 years i s estimated to be 30.2%. The
NPV of the base-caseat 10%is $53.7 million.

Economic internal rate-of-return (EIRR): The estimate of the economic rate of return (EIRR) of
the project uses border prices for the fuel cost savings. The latter is assumed to be based on a
cost of US$60 per M C M for natural gas - approximately 20% higher than the projected average
fuel prices paid by Azerenerji.       Benefits of reduced outage times are based on customer
willingness to pay. Under base case assumptions, the EIRR of the project i s 35.8%, and the NPV
at 10% discount rate i s $73.2 million.




                                                  62

5
Lo  - 0
    2 g   (D
         0
      m  a




                     0,
                    0
                    0
                I  I cv
                     b
                    c
                    U
             c       -f
             (II     a,


                     v)
                     .-m
                     v)

                     v)
                     c
                     a,
                     S
                     a
                     -
                     a,

                     a
                     S
                     3
                     S
                     a
                     c
                     g
                     0


                     b


                     3
                     a,
                     z
                     0

    n w v )
    3 W N
   - N O
  j 9      7-
    9   0




    3 w          !n  m d
                     m a  N
                         c o a
                             O
    3- N   co    l-
                  m - 0" a" a
    3
   Q O  9             d   2

    y cwom  a
    u- N b
    0 9
    u o

E
N   -Uc oWr -d
    0- N b
   .9
    u o

_.
h
3
3   -9cwo wm
N  4
   .9N     b
    v o
-
Do
0
0
N

The sensitivity of the base-case results was tested against the following changes in key
assumptions:

                 50% increase incapital cost;
                use of the "low" electricity demand forecasts (see Attachment 2, Annex
                1);
                 smaller improvements in efficiency (through improved scheduling,
                reduced transmission losses)

The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table 3. In all instances, the rates of
return remain satisfactory despite significant adverse changes in the base case
assumptions.

                       Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis of SCADAEMS


 None                                                       30.2%              35.8%
 Increase in capital cost by 50%                            21.4%              26.1%
 Low electricity demand forecast                            27.7%              33.0%
 Overall efficiency improvement of 1.5%'                    23.9%              28.7%



1.2     Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation

Azerenerji has proposed a number of relatively small projects related to improving the
reliability of transmission lines and substations, all of which are considered to be high
priority. The total estimated cost of these subprojects i s US$ [detail suppressed] million,
including US$[detail suppressed] million for transmission lines, US$[detail suppressed]
million for transformer replacement, and US$[detail suppressed] million for voltage
control and installation equipment.

Rehabilitation of Transmission Lines:          Improvements to the existing high-voltage
transmission system can bejustified intwo ways:

            e   the lines have reached capacity, and capacity increase will result in
                increased power supply as demand grows;

            0    faults on the line can be reduced leadingto improved outage times.

The first of these does not apply to any of the projects currently being proposed.
Although no system analysis was carried out, the Bums and Roe appraisal of the system
identifiedthose lines that are currently at capacity. All were inthe 110kV lines and none
were the projects named as part of this project. Data supplied on present peak currents in
these lines confirmed that none approached design maximum. In addition, it can be noted
that the kind of improvement described, typically replacement of towers, i s not such as to
increase capacity.



                                              65

The benefits o f the proposed projects accrue primarily from reduction in outage times as
a result of recurring faults in the equipment. It i s known that the lines to be rehabilitated
have had faults resulting in outages over the past three years. Table 4 shows data on
outages in 2003, and demonstrates that outages on the project lines were frequent and of
considerable duration.

           Table 4: TransmissionLinePerformance:OutagesandDuration
                        Line                            Number of         TotalDuration
                                                      outagesin2003           (Hours)
  2ndApsheron 500 kV                                        12                   47
  lSt 330kV
     Apsheron                                               16                   138
  lSt 220kV
     Ali-Bayramli                                           15                   83
  Sangachal220 kV                                           13                   71
  3rdApsheron 220 kV                                         9                  45.5
  4thApsheron 220 kV                                         8                  45.5
  lSt 220kV
     Mingachevir                                            17                 131.5
  2ndMingachevir 220 kV                                     10                    93
  2ndAli-Bayramli 220 kV                                     6                    60
  Agsu 220 kV                                                8                    54
  4thAli-Bayramli 330 kV                                     6                    32
  lSt110kV
     Alat          '                                         5                    17
  lSt110kV
     Barda          '                                        5                   624
  lSt 110kV
     Kurdamir                                               20                   148

The available data did not specify (i)  whether the outages resulted in load-shedding equal
to the power that would have been transmitted by the line; (ii)   what this power level was;
or (iii)how        many    of the faults     occurred in equipment          that   would be
replacedrehabilitated. However, inspection of the dates of outages suggests that they
occurred throughout the year and at various times of day. It was assumed, therefore, that
the outages occurred on average when the lines were carrying base load power, that it i s
62% of the peak current carried and that 50% of this power was actually lost to
consumers, that i s that 50% was transmitted via an alternate route. If outages occur
during higher load periods then losses will be greater. The resultant estimates of total
MWhlost are shown inTable 5.

                    Table5: Estimatesof OutagesandLossofPower
             Line                    Peak          Baseload            Total        Power
                                    current         current'          Outage         lost


 1"Apsheron 330 kV                   700               434              138            15,387
 lstAli-Bayramli 220 kV              950               589              83               8,373
 Sangachal220kV                      800               496              71               6,03 1
 3'd Apsheron 220 kV                 600               372              45.5             2,899
 4" Apsheron 220 kV                  600               372              45.5             2,899
 1'' Mingachevir 220 kV              550               341             131.5             7,680


                                             66

               Line                         Peak               Base load              Total             Power
                                          current               current'             Outage              lost  =
                                             (A)                   (A)                (Hrs)            (MWh)
 2ndMingachevir 220 kV                       600                   372                   93                  5,925
 2"dAli-Bayramli 220 kV                      800                   496                   60                  5,097
Agsu 220 kV                                  550                   341                   54                  3,154
 4&Ali-Bayramli 330 kV                       950                   589                   32                  4,842
 lst 110kV
    Barda                                    250                   155                  624                  8,283
1)        62% o f peak current
2)        50% of base current multiplied by voltage times 1.73 times power factor assumed @ 0.9     times duration of
          outages
Note: Azerenerji data on M W h lost on 2003 were significantly higher than the computed values. For conservatism, the
computed values have been used in the analysis o f benefits.

As noted above, valuation of the electricity lost to consumers at the average wholesale
tariff will show little or no financial benefits to Azerenerji as a result of the proposed
improvements since Azerenerji's current tariff i s arguably less than the variable cost of
supply. Financial losses would accrue to the distribution companies, and could be valued
at the average distribution margin, insofar as the consumption i s truly foregone and not
simply deferred to another time period.                     In economic terms, however, the losses
associated with outages have a much higher value.

The final assumption relates to the degree to which the proposed improvements would
reduce outages. It i s likely that Azerenerji have diagnosed the most common causes of
failures, but not all. It was therefore assumed that 60% of the outages in 2003 would be
eliminated by the proposed improvements.

Table 6 shows the EIRR of the various transmission projects based on these assumptions.

                 Table 6: Estimated Economic Return by Transmission Line
I                                                             cost          Benefit        EIRR           @ l o %
                                                            $'OOO*           $'OOO      (20 years)        $'OOO
 ~
 2nd Apsheron 500 kV                                                            1,352           62%         6,067
  1st Apsheron 330 kV                                                           1,985           68%         9,058
 4th Ali-Bayramli 330 kV                                                         625           441%          3,082
  1st Ali-Bayramli 220 kV                                                       1,080           53%         4,662
  Sangachal220 kV                                                                778            61%          3,876
  3rd Apsheron 220 kV                                                            374            91%          2,126
 4th Apsheron 220 kV                                                             374            64%          1,873
  1st Mingechevir 220 kV                                                         991           162%          4,838
  2nd Mingechevir 220 kV                                                         764           176%          3,744
  2nd Ali-Bayramli 220 kV                                                        658            69%   ,      3,339
 Agsu 220 kV                                                                     407            65% '        1,885
  1st Barda 110 kV 1                                                            1,068          116%          5,566
                                                                                                      ~




  Total Transmission Line Component                                           10,456            76%1       26,273
*) Cost details suppressedat Borrower's request




                                                          67

It can be seen from Table 6 that the proposed improvements offer high EIRRs
particularly for the smaller investments (lst   and 2ndMingachevir, 4thAli-Bayramli). It i s
possible that for these small investments the degree of reduction in outage time would be
less than the 60% assumed in these calculations, as this estimate i s not securely based.
However, the ERR for the larger investments are also high and in these cases, the
replacement of towers known to be the cause of many failures i s likely to lead to
improvement of the order of that assumed. Overall, the high cost of power failures based
upon the economic cost of electricity combined with the clear deficiencies of these lines
suggests that investment i s likely to show a highEIRRin all cases.

Given that there i s always room for debate regarding "willingness to pay" estimates of
the value of electricity supply, a sensitivity analysis was also carried out assuming that
the economic value of the avoided outages was equivalent to the minimum observed
value -i.e. the average retail tariff. This drastically reduced the ERR of the transmission
rehabilitation components. However, only 3 of the 12 subprojects fell below a lo%,
return (lst Ali-Bayramli 220 kV line, Sangachal 220 kV, and 4" Apsheron 220 kV), and
the weighted average returnfor the total package was 13.8%.

Transformer Replacement: Four transformer replacement projects are included in this
component, of which 3 relate to sub-stations whose transformers are at or close to
capacity utilization. The fourth, Mushvig, has relatively less urgency as the current
transformers have sufficient capacity to deal with load growth for at least another 10
years. However, it i s located in a high-profile area of Baku, serving the presidential
palace and a number of major government facilities, and may be justified on the basis of
reliability and security of supply to these important facilities.

The sub-station transformers effectively act as a bottleneck through which power supply
to consumption districts must pass. When the transformers reach capacity, downstream
supply i s necessarily restricted at first to a limited number of consumers at peak load
times, then increasingly to larger number of consumers for longer times. When the
capacity of the transformer i s only about 62% of peak demand, which i s the national base
load level, there will effectively be a state of permanent load-shedding downstream of the
substation which will gradually increase as potential demand increases.

The result of this i s that until capacity i s reached, the benefits of increased transformer
capacity are small, amounting to no more than improved efficiency in the transformer
itself. However, once capacity i s reached and incremental load must be shed, benefits
will accrue which will increase annually as load increases. A precise calculation of the
rate of return for each of the proposed projects requires data on the load-demand curve
for the district served by the particular sub-station and also a demand forecast for that
district. Inthe absence o f these, the national load-demandcurve was assumed to apply as
well as the national base-case demand forecast.          Examination of this national load-
demand curve suggests that there i s a reasonable approximation to a linear change in load
between the base load level (62% o f peak demand) and the peak load. The base-case
demand forecast of 1.4% per annum growth rate increasing to 1.6% per annum after 2010
means that full load-shedding of incremental demand (the point at which base loads on



                                                68

the transformers are equivalent to the present-day peak loads) will not be reached in the
absence of new transformer capacity for over 20 years.

In order to make estimate of the economic rate-of-return of each proposed project, the
following assumptions were made:

                replacement transformers installed in 2006;
                load shedding in 2006 because of insufficient capacity i s zero with
                existing transformers on full load;
                demand increases at 1.4% per annum for five years, and at 1.6%
                thereafter;
                initially, 5% of this incremental load will be shed, increasingthereafter by
                 1% each year (except for Mushvig which i s not yet operating at capacity);
                and
                a ten-year evaluation period i s used.

Table 7 shows the results of this evaluation for each substation project.

                      Table 7: Economic Returns for Transformer Replacement
                                                                            NPV @lo%
                                       Benefit           (10 years)         US$'OOO
                                       US$'OOO
                                        5.043                               16.067
                                        2,521            64%                8,536
                                        1,765            51%                4,990
                                        -                NA                 (3.487)
                                                                             \ I  I
Total Transformers                      9,329            35%                15,021
Comnonent
*) Cost details suppressedat Borrower's request

The EIRR of the transformer replacement projects are sensitive to the economic value of
outages assumed. For example, if customer willingness-to-pay i s reduced from $0.215 to
the existing average tariff (US$.02l/kWh), the EIRR of the four subprojects falls to
minus 3%. At a willingness to pay of $O.l/kWh, the EIRR of the package would be 20%.

Other substation rehabilitation projects: It is believed that the proposed switchgear
replacement projects at Yashma and Yevlakh and replacement of batteries at Alat are
 `must-do' projects to protect the integrity of the sub-stations.        While the risks of
equipment failure are difficult to predict, in all cases the equipment i s well beyond its
economic life. Total failure of supply from these stations would produce extremely high
costs interms of outages and ancillary damages.

Financial Rates of Return: The previous sections have focused on the economic rates of
return associated with the proposed transmission line rehabilitation and transformer
replacement subprojects on the premise that, at under present conditions, the projects
offer only limited financial benefit to Azerenerji. At current tariff levels, the ability to
serve additional load (through reductions in forced outages and removing capacity


                                              69

constraints) makes little contribution to the company's profitability since the variable cost
of supply (mostly fuel) i s very close to the tariff level. The main financial benefit of
carrying out the rehabilitation works at the present time i s the ability to avoid an equal or
potentially greater investment in the future when the facilities can no longer function.

However, as tariffs increase to full cost recovery levels, reduced outages and the
associated increase in electricity sales will yield financial benefits equal to the difference
between the full and variable cost of supply for the additional units o f electricity
supplied. This amount would vary on an annual basis with fluctuations in the ratio of
fixed to variable costs and with load growth. Indicative numbers for 2010 would value
the annual financial benefit of the transmission rehabilitation component at AZM 4.2
billion (approximately US$810,000). Assuming that tariffs reach full cost recovery in
2008, and also assuming that, absent the current project, the equipment would have to be
replacedrehabilitated at an equal cost not less than 5 years hence, the FIRR of the
transmission rehabilitation component would be 9.1 percent. If tariffs do not reach full
cost recovery until 2010, the FIRR would be 8.7 percent. The low financial returns to
Azerenerji should not be considered a problem (beyond the problem of low tariffs), since
the high EZRR reflects the consumers' willingness to pay to avoid outages and load
shedding.

                      Table 8: Summary ofProjectRatesof Return

                                              EIRR         NPV           FIRR          NPV
                                                         $million                   $million
SCADAIEMS                                      36%          73.2          30%           53.7
Network Rehabilitation                         48%          83.8          -9%           (0.7)
Transmission Line Rehabilitation               76%
Transformer Replacement                        35%
TotalProject (ComponentsA -D)                  39%         145.1          21%           41.7


2.      CarbonFinanceProject

The project offers significant global economic benefits in the form of reduced greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions related to the reductions in thermal fuel use accruing through the
installation of the SCADAEMS component.              There i s a possibility of converting a
portion of these benefits into financial returns through a Carbon Finance Project which i s
currently under preparation wherein emission reductions from the investment project
would be sold as carbon credits to an entity in another country. With such Carbon
Finance Project in place, the FIRR for the project would increase b y 0.8 percentage
points to 21.6%, and the Net Present Value of the investment project at 10% discount rate
would increase by US$2.8 million to US$44.5 million. This only includes carbon trading
for the period 2010-2012, i.e. to the end of the Kyoto Protocol period. There are,
however, possibilities that agreements could be extended for several years more. See
comments on the Carbon Finance Project in Annex 12.




                                              70

3.       FinancialViability of Azerenerji

3.1      Current Financial Position

Azerenerji has been accumulating significant cash flow shortfalls for the past several
years. The main reasons are three-fold: (i)wholesale tariffs are inadequate to cover the
fully allocated cost of operations;          (ii)undercontractual agreements signed with the
private operators of the distribution companies, collections are mandated at well below
100 percent;       and (iii)    fixed assets, which are carried on the books at original cost,
provide insufficient cash flow from depreciation to cover the levels o f investment
required, even with significant concessionary borrowing from external financial
institutions. As a result, the company has accumulated in excess of AZM 15 trillion
(over US$3 billion) in accounts payable to suppliers, and i s dependent on cash transfers
from the Government to purchase fuel and meet other cash obligations such as debt
service.

Table 8 below summarizes the company's balance sheets (expressed according to local
accounting standards) as of the end of 2002 and 2003. It should be noted that while a
significant portion of accounts receivable (and a corresponding amount of accounts
payable) were "frozen" in 2001 as part of agreements reached between the Government,
new management of the distribution companies, and Azerenerji's creditors, by 2003
receivables and payables on current operations had grown to represent more than one half
of the total trade-related14 indebtedness. In addition, the gross value of fixed assets
(including work in progress) i s valued at only AZM 3.9 trillion, or approximately
US$920 million.         The minimum replacement cost of the 5,500 Mw of generating
capacity alone would be in the order of US$2.75 billion (assuming a cost of US$500 per
kW). Total depreciation charges in 2003 were approximately AZM 100 billion (US$25
million). Consequently, new investment has been financed primarily by external loans.
The balance outstanding on these loans, as of the end of 2003, was AZM 1,535 billion, or
approximately US$310million.




l4 Accounts payable with respect to purchases of materials and equipment, and accounts receivable related
to sales of heat and electricity.


                                                  71

                         Table 9: Azerenerji Balance Sheet (AZM billions)

ISSETS                               2002       2003  LIABILITIES & EQUITY                 2002      2003
  FixedAssets                                         Shareholders'Equity
  Plant,propertyandequipment      2,652.3    3,898.5    InitialCapital                    635.0     483.3
  AccumulatedDepreciation        (1,372.8)  (1,475.1)   CapitalContributions            2,524.9   3,498.2
  CapitalWork inProgress          1,703.8      640.4    RetainedEarnings                   (1.1)  (425.5)
        Net Plant & Equipment     2,983.3    3,063.7     Plus current periodprofit      (424.3)  (1,005.3)
                                                        Other reserves                      0.2       0.2
3ther LongTerm Assets                                                 Total Equity      2,939.3   2,702.5
  Deferred Debts of Distcos
  (frozenreceivables)             7,422.4    7,422.4
  Other                               0.0        0.0  Long-TermLiabilities
                    Total Other   7,422.6    7,422.6    Domestic Borrowings               286.3     598.2
                                                        ExternalLoans                   1,374.8   1,535.4
                                                        DeferredDebts to SOEs
Current Assets                                          (frozenpayables)                7,422.4   7,422.4
  Cashand Bank Accounts              70.4      112.3   Total Long-TermLiabilities       9,083.4   9,556.0
  Accounts Receivable -
  Retailers                       7,762.1    9,288.4
  Other Current Assets                1.3        1.4  CurrentLiabilities
           Total CurrentAssets    9,094.6   10,753.0    Accounts Payable- Trade         6,709.3   7,896.2
                                                        Other CurrentLiabilities            0.8       1.1
rota1Assets                      19,500.5   21,239.3        Total CurrentLiabilities    7,477.7   8,980.8

                                                        TotalLiabilitiesand
                                                        Equity                         19,500.5  21,239.3



3.2     Financial Projections

Assumptions: Financial projections for Azerenerji were prepared based on 2000 - 2004
operating and financial statistics, and on load forecasts taken from the Burns & Roe
system planning study. Other assumptions include the following:

        Financial projections include proposed capital investments which are currently
         being negotiated with financiers. Specifically, these are (i)            the proposed IBRD
         project including all transmission subprojects identified by the Borrower (total
         cost US$55.6 million with US$48 million in IBRD financing), (ii)a substation
         rehabilitation program that has been agreed with KfW (total cost US$15 million),
         (iii) rehabilitation of generating units at AzGres (estimated total cost of US$118
         million, with a US$lOO million loan from EBRD). In addition, the Government
         and Azerenerji are currently discussing financing arrangement for three other
         major capital projects: (i)    a 500 MW generating plant at Sumgayit (estimated cost
         Euro 300 million, to be financed by Bayerische), (ii)         a 400 MW thermal plant at
         Shimal (estimated cost US$300 million to be financed by the Japanese Bank for
         International Cooperation); and (iii)a new HV transmission line to Iran
         (estimated cost US$75 million to be financed by the Iranian Development Bank).
         These investments were also included in the analysis, using financing
         assumptions provided by the Government and Azerenerji.


                                                  72

     0   It was assumed that Azerenerji would also invest a share of each year's
         depreciation in capital projects - 25 percent in each of 2004 and 2005, 50 percent
         in 2006 and 100 percent in 2007 and thereafter. Beginningin 2005, depreciation
         on fixed assets was assumed to be 4 percent of gross book value for generation
         and transmission equipment and 6 percent of gross book value for other assets.


     0   Prices for natural gas were assumed to increase to US$60/MCM in 2005 and to
         US$61 in 2006. Thereafter, they were assumed to increase with international
         inflation.


     0   Operating costs were assumed to increase in proportion to the growth in
         electricity sales, and were adjusted annually based on forecast local inflation
         (2.5% per annum). Cost savings associated with the proposed IBRDproject were
         included in the forecasts. However, potential cost savings associated with other
         capital investment projects were not included.


     0   The schedules of payments by the distribution companies were taken from their
         management contracts. The assumed weighted average collection rates are shown
         below.

 2004        2005        2006        2007      2008          2009        2010         2011        2012
 50%         58%         69%         71%       82%           90%         101%         115%        115%

3.3      Optionsfor AchievingFinancialViability

The financial projections indicated that, absent any increase in wholesale electricity
tariffs,, Azerenerji will continue to accumulate cash flow shortfalls in excess of AZM 2
trillion per year (approximately US$400 million) over the next 10 years. These shortfalls
derive in part from operating losses, but are exacerbated by non-payments by the
distribution companies, debt service obligations, and self-financing of capital
expenditures. If tariffs are maintained at current levels, the Government will need to
provide ongoing financial support in order to maintain the company's financial viability.
Between 2005 and 2010, a total of approximately AZM 13.8 trillion would be required.

Alternatively, the government could reduce the amount of financial support required by
increasing wholesale electricity tariffs to levels which would allow Azerenerji to fully
recover its prudently incurred costs of operations. "Full cost recovery" tariffs would
cover operating costs (fuel, materials, repair and maintenance, administrative expenses,
taxes, and interest on debts), as well as depreciation expenses and a 5 percent per annum
return on net fixed assets. Based on the financial assumptions described above, full cost
recovery wholesale tariffs for Azerenerji are estimated to be approximately AZM
132/kWh for 200515. By 2010, the required wholesale tariff to achieve full cost recovery



l5  Because Azerenerji also serves some customers at the distribution level, the weighted average tariff is
slightly higher.


                                                  73

would be AZM 174/kWh. However, even if the Government moved immediately to full
cost recovery tariffs, Azerenerji would continue to have a cash flow shortfall - and hence
a need for financial support - totaling approximately AZM 3.7 trillion over the 2005 -
2010 period owing to (a) contracted nonpayments by distribution companies and (b) the
relatively low level of depreciation as compared with capital investment commitments.

The above analysis suggests that tariff increases alone will not fully resolve the weak
financial position of Azerenerji. Additional actions are required in order to achieve
sustainable financial viability. Among the measures that have been considered are the
following:

(i)       Improve operating efficiency:     B y the standards of the region, Azerenerji's
operating costs are not excessive. Even the "full cost recovery" wholesale tariff i s less
than 3 US cents per kWh - although as noted above, the depreciation component of this
tariff i s not representative of net replacement value of the assets. Still, there i s room for
improvement in areas such as more cost-effective dispatching of generation plants,
reduction in line losses, reductions in outages, improvements in scheduled maintenance
to prevent more serious equipment failures, better financial management and planning,
and staff reductions through better management, communications and automation. The
proposed project will help to address some of these issues. Ongoing technical assistance
provided under the USAID program of assistance to the power sector will assist in
addressing other efficiency concerns.

(ii)      Improve collections:    Improvement in collections would help to alleviate the
company's cash flow problems and the associated build-up of debts. However, under
contracts signed with the private managers of the distribution companies, Azerenerji's
collection rates are restricted to well below 100 percent until 2010. The company can,
however, ensure that the mandated collections are received. Inthis regard, it will require
the support of the Government in enforcing the contracts with the distribution companies.
This support should include, inter alia, steps on the part of the Government to withdraw
the licenses of distribution companies who are in significant arrears on payments to
Azerenerji, and also granting Azerenerji the right to restrict supply to those distribution
companies until such time as they meet their payment obligations.

(iii)     Revalue fixed assets:     As noted in the previous section, even a "full cost
recovery" tariff i s inadequate to cover the cash flow requirements o f the company -
largely owing to the low level of depreciation included in the calculations.              One
mechanism for addressing this issue would be to base depreciation on a more realistic
estimate of net replacement value of the plant and equipment.               A comprehensive
technical review of the existing asset base, its remaining useful life, and its current
replacement cost i s needed in order to better understand and manage the investment
requirements of the company and ensure that adequate funding i s available through the
tariffs. Provision has been made in the technical assistance component of the project to
finance an asset revaluation exercise.




                                              74

(iv)     Provide financial support to operations:       The final option for ensuring the
financial viability of the company i s additional injections of equity by the Government.
This can take a number of forms, including direct equity injections, Government loans
and/or deferral of payments owing to the budget, or equity injections tied to specific
parameters such as collection rates or fuel expenditures. While financial support tend to
be counter-productive in that they generally discourage efficiency improvements on the
part of the recipient, in the present case it would appear that some level of support i s
needed until such time as tariffs are adjusted to full cost recovery levels.

It i s believed that, in the near and medium term, financial recovery of Azerenerji is best
achieved by a combination of tariff increases and ongoing Government support, rather
than solely by Government transfers as i s the current situation. This would have three
key advantages. First, a move towards cost recovery tariffs would encourage customers
to use electricity more efficiently, thereby moderating growth in demand and hence the
need for Government support. Second, providing financial support to Azerenerji to cover
contracted nonpayments by distribution companies rather than addressing the company's
cash flow problems through tariff increases i s more consistent with long term tariff
principles which would not normally allow the inclusion of nonpayments as part of
revenue requirements.       Finally, moving to cost recovery tariffs at a time when the
distribution companies have some leeway in terms of enforcing payment provides a de
facto form o f social support for low income households while more formal mechanisms
for social protection are put in place. In the longer term, it i s expected that financial
support can be phased out as efficiency improvements are introduced, collections
improve, and asset values are adjusted to provide adequate cash flow for debt service and
new investment.

A number of alternative scenarios for tariff increases and financial support were
developed and reviewed, including a range of dates for the move to full cost recovery
tariffs.    The option which was deemed to offer the best balance between the
Government's affordability concerns and the need to move quickly to economically
efficient pricing of electricity supply would entail a 50 percent increase in wholesale
electricity tariffs (from 71 AZWkWh to 106.5 AZWkWh) effective January 1, 2006,
with equal annual percentage increases thereafter in order to reach full cost recovery
(estimated at 174 AZWkWh) by 2010. The proposed option would require government
support totaling AZM 6.7 trillion over the 2005 - 2010 period - and a single-year
maximum of AZM 1.7 trillion in 2005.             The figures below show the annual and
cumulative levels o f cash flow deficits, and hence of financial support required under this
scenario. For comparison, the figures also show the supplemental financing that would
be required if full cost recovery tariffs were introduced in 2005,2006,2008 and 2010.




                                              75

       3000

       2500

       2000                                                        ElCost Recovery 2005
    E
    2                                                                Cost Recovery 2006
       1500                                                          Cost Recovery 2008

    I1000
     8                                                               Cost Recovery2010
    E                                                                50% 2006, CR 2010
       500

          0
                       2006  2007   2008     2009   2010
       -500



                                      Figure2


                      Azerenerji Cumulative Cash Flow Deficit

       12000 r - - - -


       l0000
                                                               +Cost     Recovery 2010
        8000                                                   -A-  Cost Recovery 2008

        6000                                                   -0- Cost Recovery2006
                                                               -B- Cost Recovery2005

        4000                                                   +50%     2006, CR 2010


        2000


           0
                2005    2006  2007  2008     2009   2010



Highlights of the company's financial performance under.    1the proposed scenario are
provided inTable 10. Pro forma financial statements are given in Table 11,Table 12 and
Table 13.




                                         76

3 3    3

     'I
     0

+          VI


>


U
B
L1




          -m
            +-
            dam

      (0


      U
      .-
      a

      m     %
            0

                                Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                           AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project


The proposed investments under the project will be confined to existing facilities and rights of
way and as such are unlikely to trigger major environmental impacts or other safeguard policies.
The project has been given an initial environmental category rating of B. As part of the EA, an
Environmental Management Plan has been prepared to define procedures for mitigation of local
impacts of the project during construction (e.g. repair of lines, replacement of transformer
equipment) and disposal of waste materials and procedures for mitigation during operation (e.g.
maintenance activities). There will be no subprojects in disputed areadconflict zones.

The impacts associated with the project are for the most part related to potential noise and dust
during construction. PCB i s not expected to be found on the sites (substations), but testing for
PCB will be undertaken and any necessary remedial action taken. Replaced batteries will be
disposed of safely. Ecological reshaping by filling holes, soil leveling, and re-vegetation will
take place if the ground i s impacted by the operations. No pesticides will be used for any land
clearing operations (e.g. new tower platforms, access roads preparation, etc.). All land clearing
will be done by manual or mechanical methods.

No potentially large scale, significant, and/or irreversible impacts of the project have been found.

Thepositive environmental impact of the project i s as follows:

The project i s expected to leadto a conservatively estimated 1.5 percent reduction in gas and fuel
oil use at power plants because of more economic dispatch, with a corresponding effect on
emission of greenhouse gases from the plants. An estimated 0.5 percentage point's reduction in
transmission losses (from 5 percent to 4.5 percent) has a corresponding positive impact on
emissions from the power plants.        Insofar as the project contributes to increased and more
reliable electricity supply, it will help to reduce the need for households to consume wood and
kerosene in order to meet their demands for heat and lighting. Savings of power plant fuel will
be monitored under the project, and thus also emission reductions. Future household surveys
will monitor developments in electricity supply vs. wood and kerosene use (as well as natural
gas).

The project requires that the Government ensure that Azerenerji i s kept financially viable. In
order to curtail direct financial support to the company, the Government plans to increase
electricity tariffs to ultimately reach cost recovery. Such higher tariffs will have a dampening
impact on demand and therefore also on emissions from thermal power plants.




                                                   81

                       Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                        AZERBAIJAN: Power TransmissionProject


                                                    Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                         07/21/2003                09/03/2003
Initial PID to InfoShop                           09/29/2003                09/30/2003
Initial ISDS to InfoShop                          09/29/2003                09/30/2003
Appraisal                                         03/15/2004                02/11/2005
Negotiations                                                                03117/2005
BoardBVP approval                                                           05/17/2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                                                08/17/2005
Planneddate of mid-term review                                              10/31/2007
Plannedclosing date                                                         12/31/2010

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
State power generation and transmission company Azerenerji, supported by consulting firm
KEMA,Inc. (consortium), financedby PHRD.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                           Title                         Unit
Bjom Hamso                                Task Manager                      ECSIE
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner            Sr. Finance Officer                 LOAGl
Bernard Baratz                      Environmental Consultant                EASEG
Junko Funahashi                             Sr. Counsel                     LEGEC
Gurcharan Singh                       Sr. Procurement Spec.                 ECSPS
Surekha Jaddoo                         Operations Analyst                   ECSIE
Josephine Kida                          Program Assistant                   ECSIE
Farid Mamedov                           Operations Officer                  ECSIE
Ida N.Muhoho                        Financial Mgmt Specialist               ECSPS
Neal Patterson                     Sr. Power/SCADA Engineer                Consultant
Vladislav Vucetic                  Lead Energy Spec./Engineer               ECSIE
Margaret A. Wilson                     Sr. Financial Analyst               Consultant

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$379,000
    2. Trust funds:      US$57,000
    3. Total:           US$436,000

Project implementation (some procurement stages for the main component SCADA/EMS/
Telecom/Metering) has been undertaken in parallel with project preparation and i s included in
the above costs (estimated to US$30,000).

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
     1. Remaining costs to approval:           US$4,000
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:      US$120,000


                                                 82

                               Annex 12: Carbon Finance Project
                         AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project


              Azerbaijan Electric Power Transmission CarbonFinance Project.

The Azerbaijan Electric Power Transmission Carbon Finance Project i s potentially eligible under
the Kyoto Protocol's Article 12. which establishes the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM)
allowing public and private sector parties in industrialized countries to invest in greenhouse gas
mitigation projects implemented in developing countries. The C D M enables investors to receive
a credit toward their emission reductions target under the Kyoto Protocol and associated regional
agreements, such as the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS),
which entered into force on January 1, 2005. Azerbaijan has ratified the Kyoto Protocol on 28
September, 2000, and the Kyoto Protocol came into force on February 16,2005.

The primary objective of the project i s to improve the reliability, quality, and cost-effectiveness
of electricity supply in Azerbaijan by financing investments that improve the management and
performance of the high-voltage transmission network. In addition, improving the management
of the high-voltage transmission system will facilitate expanded energy trade inthe region. Some
of the IBRD project activities are eligible Clean Development Mechanism activities and the
emission reductions from the eligible C D M activities will result in greenhouse gas emission
reductions which would be purchased by the Netherlands Clean Development Facility.

The key performance indicators that will be used to assess the fulfillment of the project's
development objectives are:


    0   Reduction in the per kWh fuel consumption o f thermal plants due to improved, economic
        dispatch: 1.5 percent;
    0   Reduction in transmission losses: 0.5 percent; and
    0   Reduction in the frequency and duration of forced outages within the HV transmission
        system.

The project's increase of the overall efficiency of electricity generation in Azerbaijan will reduce
local air pollutants in Azerbaijan and abate C02 emissions responsible for global climate change
from burning of fossil fuels (mazut and natural gas) in thermal power plants. Azerbaijan has
ratified the Kyoto Protocol and the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources has been selected
as the Designated National Authority (DNA). Azerbaijan i s thus eligible to act as host country
for greenhouse gas mitigation projects implemented under the Clean Development Mechanism
of the Kyoto Protocol and the power transmission project offers a good opportunity for creating
additional income by selling the C02 emissions reductions generated by the project.

In order to assess and ascertain the C02 emission reductions from the proposed project, two
baseline studies are currently being prepared.       It is preliminarily estimated that increased
electricity generation from existing hydropower stations though Decision Support System would
generate about 2 million tons of C02, and improved efficiency in power system generation




                                                 83

through advanced SCADA and an Energy Management System i s expected to generate
approximately 2.5 million tons of C02 over a ten-year period.

The Dutch government has agreed to include the project inthe portfolio of the Netherlands Clean
Development Facility (NCDF), which i s one of the carbon funds managed by the World Bank.
They NCDF will buy 100percent of the amount of emission reductions generated by the project
till 2012. The exact amount to be purchased will be determined after the study to estimate the
emission reductions i s completed and due diligence on the carbon finance project has been
performed.

The Azerbaijani DNA i s well informed about the project and approves of it. It i s expected to
formally approve the project in 2005.

It is expected that negotiations on an emission reductions purchase agreement (ERPA) between
the World Bank and the project sponsor Azerenerji will be completed in 2006. The ERPA will
determine the exact amount of C02 emission reductions that would be purchased by the World
Bank, the unit price, and the delivery over time. The amount of carbon finance revenue earned
by the project sponsor would depend upon the amount of greenhouse gas emission reductions
generated by the project and the unit price(s) agreed between the buyer(s) and seller. Assuming a
price of US$4/tC02, the project could potentially generate an income of up to US$18 million.
Within the first five-year commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol (2008-2012) the project
would generate about US$5.4 million (in the 2010-2012 period). The income from selling COz
emission reductions would raise the project Internal Rate of Return (IRR) by 0.8 percent, and the
project Net Present Value (NPV) would increase by US$ 2.8 million. If the government parties
to the Kyoto Protocol agree to renew the five-year commitment period (i.e., 2013-2017), or other
post-2012 regional or international emissions treading schemes are to emerge, it will become
possible for Azerenerji to sell a substantial amount of the GHG emission reductions generated by
the project. The carbon finance income will increase significantly as a result.

Due to the World Bank's experience with the C D M and the global carbon market, Bank
involvement in the carbon finance project would be very significant in terms of carbon asset
development and inbuildingrecognition of Azerbaijan as a C D M country. The World Bank has
as a pioneer in the early carbon market acquired valuable methodological experience and
expertise that would benefit this carbon finance project. Because it would be the first CDM
project implemented in Azerbaijan, the project would be significant, as it would help
demonstrating Azerbaijan's capacity to participate successfully in this emerging market. The
poor conditions of the existing power plants in Azerbaijan offer considerable potential for other
carbon finance projects.

A detailed description of carbon finance component of the project will be made available in the
Carbon Finance Document (CFD) and the Project Design Document (PDD), respectively, during
the first half of 2005.




                                                84

                           Annex 13: Documentsinthe Project File
                         AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project

KEMA Inc., Dar a1Handash, "Azerenerji Joint Stock Company, FinalFeasibility Study Report,
PartI, Transmission Project", October 2004
       Power

KEMA Inc., Dar a1Handash, "Azerenerji Joint Stock Company, FinalFeasibility Study Report,
Part11,Rehabilitation Assessment" (Environmental Assessment), October 2004

Azerenerji, "Power Transmission Project (IBRD): Environmental Management Plans", 2005

Burns& RoeEnterprises, "Republic of Azerbaijan, Prioritization of Investment Needs for Power
Generation and Transmission", November 2003

Dr.V. Valiyev, "Review of the ExistingPower andGasNetworksinAzerbaijan", June 2002.

World Bank, "Azerbaijan: Issues and Options Associated with Energy Sector Reform",
November 2004

World Bank, "Azerbaijan Raising Rates: Short-Term Implications of Residential Electricity
Tariff Rebalancing", December 10,2004

Nexant: "Azerbaijan: Development of the Regulatory Framework and Institutional Capacity in
Electricity, Natural Gas, andWater", August 13, 2004

Website for further information about Azerenerji: www.azerenerji.com/




                                              85

  l:l 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
      9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
    w 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0151
22
:I
~ ~ 9 90909 0 0 9 9 90909 0 0 9 9
      0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
      0      9 9 0 0        9 9 0 0 0 0 z

49
v)
3
.E
+ <   m 0 0 0 0 l n ~ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
      N 9 9 9 9 ? 9 ? 9 9 9 9 ? 9 9 g
      N ~ m ~ l n m m m c N O c t - 0
          -  m        * * m m   N w m


'z-cz9090 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
      0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
         9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9

8 E

  . z o o o o o o o o o o o
   ~ 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8
     9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
   0


u . $ 8 ? 8 8 8 8 7 8 8 8 1 3
a $  0 0 0 0 0 0 - o o o r i

                                                Annex 15: Country at a Glance
                                       AZERBAIJAN: Power Transmission Project
                                                                                  `
                                                              Europe 8
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central   LOW-
                                                  Azerbaljan      Asia income        Development diamond*
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                           8.2      476    2,495                  Lifeexpectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US$)                         710     2,EO     430
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                           5.8                                          T
                                                                  1,030   1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (77)                                           0.9       0.1      1.9
Labor force rk)                                            1.8      0.4     2.3      GNI                                Gross

M o s t recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1996-02)                             per                                primary
                                                                                     capita                           nrollment
Poverty (%of populationbelownationalpoverfyline)
Urban POpulation ("70f totalpopulation)                    52       63      30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                              65       89      59                         1
infant mortality (per 1000livebirths)                      74       25       81
Childmalnutrition ("of childrenunder5)                     l7                             Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwtersource(%ofpopulation)             78        91      76
Illiteracy(%ofpopulation age E+)                                      3      37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)        98       102      95            -Azerbaijan
   Male                                                    97       103     103            . Low-incomegroup
                                                                                            ____
   Female                                                  99       101      87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1982     1992      2001   2002       1Economic ratios'                           I
GDP (US$ billions)                                 ..    0.44       5.7      6.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                      ..     -0.7     20.7    32.8
Exportsof goods andservicesiGDP                    ..    68.2      415     43.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                         24.9    25.3
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                                          20.4    202

Current account balancelGDP                                        -0.9    -P.6
interestpaynentsiGDP                                                0.4     0.3
Total debtiGDP                                                     22.2    23.6
Total debt service/exports                                          5.3     65
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                           7.4
Presentvalue of debffexports                                       39.5                            Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002 2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                               12      9.9      10.6                     -Azerbaijan                         II
GDP percapita                                     0.1     8.9       9.6             I        - - Low-incomeorouo




                                            1982-92 lgg2-02       2o01   2o02     -Growth o f exports and imports
(averageannualgrowth)                                                                                                    ( O h )


Agriculture                                        ..      0.8      111     7.5      40
Industry                                           ..     -2.2      7.3     8.5
  Manufacturing                                    ..    -8.6      -3.7     4.0      PO

Services                                           ..     11.3      P.1      4.1

Privateconsumption                                        9.2      n.9      5 2    -20                                          -
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       ....   6.8      -9.5     5.5   -
                                                                                  -40
Gross domestic investment                          ..     7.2     -44.4     61.0
Imports of goods and sewices                       ..     5.3      -2.4    20.7             -Exports         -1rrports




                                                                     88

                                                                                                          Aierbaiian

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982 1992    2001   2002     I tnflation  ( O h )                             b
Domestic prices
("hchange)
Consumer prices                                           15     2 7
Implicit GDP deflator                                    2.5     0 7

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                         215     28 0
Current budget balance                                   4.7     5 4
Overall surplusideficit                                  0.9    -0 5


TRADE
                                          1982 1992    2001   2002       Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Totalexports (fob)                                     2,046   1969    12,500 T
 n.a.
 n.a.                                                                   2,000

  Manufactures                                          205     226     1,500
Total imports (cif)                              788   1,465   2,136     1,000
  Food
  Fuel and energy                                                         500

  Capital goods                                          138    732         0
                                                                                                         00
Export price index(W95=00)                               262    259              96     97    98    99         01

Importprice index(1995=00)                                98      98                        Exports       lnports
Terms of trade (W95=WO)                                  268     264


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982  1992   2001   2002        Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                          2,369   2,667
Importsof goods and services                            2,130   3 P1
Resource balance                                         239    -454     .10

Net income                                              -367    -365
Net current transfers                                     77      70     -20

Current account balance                                   -52   -768
                                                                         -30
 Financing items (net)                                    3 7    965
Changes in net reserves                                 -266     -97     -40

 Memo:
 Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)                   725      721
 Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)                 54.2 4,656.7 4,860 7


 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS1982           1992   2001   2002
 (US$ millions)                                                           Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.:
 Total debt outstanding anddisbursed                    1266    1,438
   IBRD                                                     0       0                         G 82
   IDA                                                   235      314

 Total debt service                                       132     187
   IBRD                                                     0       0
   IDA                                                      2       2

 Composition of net resourceflows
   Official grants                                         45
   Officialcreditors                                       88     l79
   Privatecreditors                                        36     -79
   Foreigndirect investment                              227
   Portfolio equity                                         0
                                                                                                    D' 120
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                             50      82     A                                 E-Bilatera.
   Disbursements                                           28      57     6 IDA
                                                                            -- IBRD    D Otkr mltilaterd
                                                                                           -                F- Private
   Principal repayments                                     0       0     C-IMF                             G. Sbrt-terrr




                                                            89


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33695

                          45                  To Tbilisi                          46                                                 47                                               48                                                  49                                                 50                                           51


                                                                                                                                                            R U S S I A N                                                                                                                                                     A Z E R B A I J A N
                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Derbent
                G E O R G I A                                                                                                                                                                                                      YALAMA
                                                                                                      BALAKEN   Katekhchay                                                                                                                                                     POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                         F E D E R AT I O N                                                                                                                                                                                         OTHER
                                                                                                        KATEX              ZAGATALA                                                                                                    KHUDAT                                     REHABILITATION                                                                   EXISTING

                                                                                                                                                            Samur                                                                                                                                PROJECT SUBSTATIONS (REHABILITATION)                                        THERMAL POWER PLANTS

                                                                                                                                                                          River                                                            KHACHMAZ                                              PROJECT NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER (NDC)                                      HYDRO POWER PLANTS

                To Tbilisi                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUSAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT BACKUP CONTROL CENTER (BCC)                                         SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                   EYRICHAY
                                                                         Iori                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PLANNED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GUBA            CHARCHI                                                   PROJECT TRANSMISSION LINES (REHABILITATION):                                TRANSMISSION LINES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   500 kV                                                                      500 kV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEVECHI                                                   330 kV                                                                      330 kV
                                                   Not
                                                       in                                                                            SHEKI      SHEKI
                                                         service,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  220-230 kV                                                                  220-230 kV
                                                                     p a r t l ydismantled                                                                                                                                                                                                         154 kV                                                                      154 kV                      41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SIYAZAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   110 kV                                                                      110 kV
                                       GAZAKH     AGSTAFA
 41
                                                                                 SHAMKIR          Kura                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                             Shamkir                                                                                                                                                                                   GILAZI
                                                                             Reservoir                          Mingachevir                                                          GABALA




                                                                                                  YENIKEND                    Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                        MINGACHEVIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                          ISMAILLI

                                                                 DYUYERLI                                                 AZERBAIJAN                                                                                                          Chikilchay          YASHMA                             See inset for detail
                                                                                ShamkirchGANDJA
                                                                                         ay    GANDJA

                                                                                                                              GORAN     VARVARA                                                                                    SHAMAKHI                                          SUMGAYIT                                              C a s p i a n                       S e a
                                                                                                  1        GANDJA                                                                GOYCHAY
                                                                                                                   KYUREKCHAY                YEVLAKH                                                                      AGSU                                                          SANAYE-GOVSHAGI             SHIMAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KHIRDALAN          GALA
                                                                                                                                                        LEKI
                                                                 DASHKESAN                             KIRAZ 1                                                              UDJAR        MYUSYULYU                                                                     APSHERON                 BCC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NDC        BAKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                       YSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MUSHVIG
                                                                                                                                                BARDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UKRAINE
                                         Lake                                                                                 TARTAR                                                                    KURDAMIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LKBATAN
                                        Sevan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SANGACHAL

                                                                                                                       TARTAR                                    Kura er     Riv                                                               GAZI-MAMMAD
                                                                                          KELBADZHAR                             GOYTAPA     KHINDIRISTAR                                                                                                                                                                            40
           A R M E N I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Black  Sea
 40                                                                                                                                                          AGDZHEBEDI                                        SABIRABAD                                                  ALAT                                                                                                             Caspian
                                                                                         ZULFUQARH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GEORGIA              Sea             TURKMENIST
                                                                                ISTISU                                                                                                                                    SAATLI                     ALI-BAYRAMLI                                                                                                            ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                AGDAM
                                                                                                                                                                           YENI                                                                                                                                                                                                     AZERBAIJAN  Baku
                                                                                                                                                                         BEILAGAN

          SADARAK                                                                                                                                                                BAHRAMTAPA           IMISHLI                                                                                                                                        TURKEY                                                             AN
                                                                                                                                  KHANKENDI      KHOCAVAND

                                                                                                                                                                               KHALAJ
To Turkey                                                                                                      SHUSHA                                        DASHBURUN
                                                                                                          LACHIN                                                                          PARS-
                                                                                                                                                                                          ABAD                                                          SALYAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SYRIAN ARAB REP.   IRAQ         ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN

            Araz                                                                                                                                              BOYUK
                   SHARUR                                                                                            SABIR NS                                HARAMI                                             SAMADABAD
                                                                                                                                              FIZULI                           River
                                                                                                                                                                         Araz                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BILASUVAR                                                                                           Yashma        SUMGAYIT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kura      NEFTCHALA                                                                                                          C a s p i a n
                                                                                                                                        QOZLUCAY
                          GIVRAG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SANAYE-GOVSHAGI
                                         JEHRI                                                            GUBADLI              JABRAYIL                                                                                                                                                                                    SUMGAYIT 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GOREDIL       ZAVOD               S e a
                                           BABEK
                   GARGALIG                    BSK
                               XALCAQILIQ
                                              NAKHCHIVAN 2                                                                                                                                       kV)                  JALILABAD                                                                                                                                             BUZOVNA
                                NAKHCHIVAN
                                              KOROGLU                                                                                                          KarasuRiv                                                                                                                                                                                         MASHTAGA


                               Araz                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JEYRANBATAN                BYK SOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHIMAL
                             Reservoir                                                                                                                                 re                    (132
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MASALLI
                                            ARAZ                                                                 ZANGILAN                                                                                                                                                                                         39                                                  ZABRAT
 39                                           JULFA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AIRPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0    10     20     30     40     50            APSHERON            KHIRDALAN
                                                                               ORDUBAD                                                                                                                                        BORADIGAH                                                                                                                                  RAMANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BCC     NIZAMI
                                                                                                                               ISLAMIC REP.                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS                                                                                        GALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SRAKHANI
                                               KHOY 2
                                                                                                                                      OF IRAN                                                                                   LENKORAN 1                                This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                   BAKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NDC                      HVSAN
                                                                                             KHOY                                                                                                                               Lenkaran            LENKORAN 2            The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                       ZYG
                                                          KHOY 1                                                                                                                                                                                                          and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          this map do not imply, on the part of                              MUSHVIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The World Bank Group, any judgment                                 PATAMDAR
                                                                                                                    SARDROUD                                                                                                                                              on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                    TAGI DIZE
                                                                                                         TABRIZ                                                                                                                         ASTARA                            any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          such boundaries.                                              LKBATAN                 B a k u B a y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Ali
                 45                                                            46                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50        Bayramli
                                                                                             To Urmiya               To Zanjan                                                                       48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MAY 2005

