Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/13/2005 
Report No.:  32104
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Azerbaijan 
Project ID:  P083341 
Project Name:  POWER TRANSMISSION 
Task Team Leader:  Bjorn Hamso 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 11, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: May 17, 2005 
Managing Unit:  ECSIE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Power (100%) 
Theme:  Infrastructure services for private sector development (P);Regulation and 
competition policy (P);Regional integration (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
48.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
7.40
7.40 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The primary objective of the project is to improve the efficiency of the power 
transmission operation in Azerbaijan through technical and institutional strengthening of 
the generation/transmission utility.  The project has as a secondary objective to contribute 
to strengthening Azerenergy's financial position.   
 
3. Project Description 
The components were selected based on urgent needs of the power system and a division 
of labor among IFIs, with EBRD preparing a power generation project, and KfW 
financing transmission components complementary to those to be financed by IBRD.  
Azerenerji had international consultants (financed by Japan Policy and Human Resources 
Development Fund (PHRD)) assisting in preparing a feasibility study in which the Goods 
components below were proposed.  
 
Component A: Power System Management  
 
The first project component includes investments to upgrade the electricity dispatch 
system in the country, which in turn would support the reliable, secure and economic 
Page  2
operation of the electricity sector, and facilitate financial settlements in a future 
wholesale electricity market.  There are three main subcomponents:  
 
-
SCADA/EMS system:  installation of hardware and software to enable real time 
acquisition of operational information from generating stations and HV transmission 
system substations, analysis and monitoring of the network status at the National 
Dispatch Center, and control and dispatch of the generating plants and the HV 
transmission system.  
 
-
Telecommunications network upgrade:  installation of communications 
equipment to meet the requirements of dispatch, metering, and HV network operations 
and maintenance.  It will also provide broadband communications facilities between 
major Azerenerji offices and generating plants to support improvements in Azerenerji 
financial management and administration.  
 
-
Station adaptation and metering: adaptation of generating plant and substation 
control and metering circuits and equipment to provide alarm, status, and metering inputs 
to the Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) and accept control outputs from the RTUs.  Fuel 
meters on each major thermal generating unit will be provided for economic dispatch.  
 
Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation  
 
The second component would cover priority investments in rehabilitation of high 
voltage transmission lines and selected high-voltage substations. The investments will 
enhance system reliability and help protect valuable system assets from costly damage.  
Subprojects were selected based on priority and economic returns, and include increasing 
transformer capacity at four HV substations, rehabilitation of 12 transmission line 
segments, and some low-cost rehabilitation work on four additional substations. Some of 
the subcomponents may change during project implementation subject to additional 
studies and a changing system environment (deterioration of existing equipment or 
emergence of system bottlenecks or weaknesses).  
 
Component C: Management Assistance  
 
The third component will provide technical assistance (TA) to improve the management 
systems of Azerenerji and prepare the company for a future restructured energy sector.  
The TA includes (1) a transmission network stability study; (2) revaluation of 
Azerenerji?s assets; (3) company and project audits; (4) development of an updated Grid 
Code; and (5) transmission costing (as basis for separate transmission tariff).  This 
component will also provide TA to help Azerenerji ensure efficient implementation of the 
project.  The subcomponents include (6) dispatch system procurement support (started 
during project preparation); (7) project management and technical support; and (8) 
dispatch system training.  Uncommitted TA funds (9) could be used for the company?s 
transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and related development 
of an integrated management information system (if grant funds and other support are not 
forthcoming) or for further project implementation support.  The loan also finances 
Page  3
computer and other hardware and software (with implementation assistance) to support 
IFRS and a management information system.  
 
Component D: Project Implementation  
 
The fourth component will finance Incremental Operating Costs for the Project 
Implementation Unit (PIU). Lending for this subcomponent will be modest in size given 
that the PIU is part of the Azerenerji organization, with loan funding reserved for 
translation and interpretation work, incremental office equipment, international travel 
relevant to the project, and incremental office operating expenditures.  
 
Also the front-end lending fee is financed from the loan (1% of loan possibly less 0.5% 
waiver = US$ 0.24 million).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The transmission system rehabilitation components include installation of substation 
components inside the fence of existing substations at approximately 8 locations in the 
country, as well as repair work on power lines across the country.  The dispatch system 
upgrade includes laying of fiber optic cables along power line corridors.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Bernard Baratz (EASEG) 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The proposed investments under the project will be confined to existing facilities and 
rights of way and as such are unlikely to trigger major environmental impacts or other 
safeguard policies. No land will be acquired.  
 
Page  4
The impacts associated with the project are for the most part related to potential noise 
and dust during construction.  PCB is not expected to be found on the sites (substations), 
but testing for PCB will be undertaken and any necessary remedial action taken. 
Replaced batteries will be disposed of safely. Ecological reshaping by filling holes, soil 
leveling, and re-vegetation will take place if the ground is impacted by the operations. No 
pesticides will be used for any land clearing operations (e.g. new tower platforms, access 
roads preparation, etc.). All land clearing will be done by manual or mechanical methods.  
 
No potentially large scale, significant, and/or irreversible impacts of the project have 
been found.  
 
The positive environmental impact of the project is as follows:  
 
The project is expected to lead to a conservatively estimated 1.5 percent reduction in gas 
and fuel oil use at power plants because of more economic dispatch, with a corresponding 
effect on emission of greenhouse gases from the plants. An estimated 0.5 percentage 
point's reduction in transmission losses (from 5 percent to 4.5 percent) has a 
corresponding positive impact on emissions from the power plants. Insofar as the project 
contributes to increased and more reliable electricity supply, it will help to reduce the 
need for households to consume wood and kerosene in order to meet their demands for 
heat and lighting.  Savings of power plant fuel will be monitored under the project, and 
thus also emission reductions.  Future household surveys will monitor developments in 
electricity supply vs. wood and kerosene use (as well as natural gas).  At the same time, it 
is anticipated that the tariff increases which form a key part of government strategy for 
the utilities subsectors will encourage more efficient use of energy, and hence reduce 
future growth in greenhouse gas emissions.  
 
*
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As part of the EA, an Environmental Management Plan has been prepared to define 
procedures for mitigation of local impacts of the project during construction (e.g. repair 
of lines, replacement of transformer equipment) and disposal of waste materials and 
procedures for mitigation during operation (e.g. maintenance activities).   
 
Page  5
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders are people who live near work sites, and who may be influenced by 
noise and dust.  Announcements of the project have been made, consultation meetings 
held, and Environmental Management Plans disclosed.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/25/2004 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/18/2004 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/08/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA 
report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Page  6
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Bjorn Hamso 
04/13/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Bernard Baratz 
04/13/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody 
04/13/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
04/13/2005 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Peter D. Thomson 
04/13/2005 
Comments:   
