Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1208 
Project Name 
Power Transmission Project 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Power (100%) 
Project ID 
P083341 
Borrower(s) 
Azerenergy OJSC 
Implementing Agency 
Azerenergy OJSC 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 11, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 10, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
Planned April 21, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Since gaining independence from the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan has experienced many of the 
same challenges as other CIS transition states.  The country’s problems were exacerbated, 
however, by an armed conflict and a large population of refugees and Internally Displaced 
People (IDPs).  As a result, Azerbaijan is today one of the seven lowest income countries of the 
Europe and Central Asia Region, although its future holds tremendous promise because of 
offshore oil and gas resources which it is currently developing in partnership with the private 
sector.   
 
Azerbaijan has succeeded in achieving economic stabilization in recent years as a result of a 
consistent program of fiscal restraint and prudent monetary policy.  Oil and gas developments 
proceed as planned, and GDP expanded by 10.6 percent in 2002 and 11.2 percent in 2003, 
reflecting both sound policy adjustments and high oil prices.  However, oil production is 
expected to peak in 2010 and the Government will need to ensure diversified development of the 
non-oil sector in order to generate jobs and promote income equity.  Significant progress has 
been made on governance and corruption issues in the years since 1999, although much remains 
to be done to strengthen the business environment. 
 
Poverty is a serious concern, in part owing to the large numbers of IDPs (nearly a million people) 
and in part to insufficient investment in labor-intensive sectors and supporting infrastructure.  
About 47 percent of the population lived in poverty in 2002 and 9 percent lived in extreme 
poverty.  Azerbaijan’s PRSP identifies six strategic pillars: (i) an enabling environment for 
income-generating opportunities; (ii) macroeconomic stability; (iii) quality of and equity in 
access to health and education; (iv) infrastructure improvements (including roads, utility 
services, and irrigation); (v) social protection reforms to serve the vulnerable more effectively; 
and (vi) better conditions for refugees and IDPs. Azerbaijan is making progress in fighting 
poverty, and pensions and minimum wages were increased significantly in 2004. 
 
Page  2
The power sector has performed poorly in the years since independence.  Effective generation 
capacity has shrunk due to insufficient funds for rehabilitation and capacity addition, and is 
currently inadequate to meet the domestic electricity demand.  Many areas of the country receive 
only a few hours of electricity per day.  System reliability is poor, with frequent localized 
outages and occasional widespread system failures.  In addition, the sector is far from financially 
viable.  Azerenergy (the state power generation and transmission company and beneficiary under 
this proposed project) depends heavily on the State to provide financial support through payment 
for power plant fuel (natural gas and mazut) and electricity imports.  The underlying causes of 
poor system performance are similar to those in other FSU countries:  (i) inadequate levels of 
investment and maintenance, especially since independence; (ii) inadequate tariffs and 
collections; and (iii) system designs originally optimized to function as part of a larger integrated 
power supply network.  The problems have been complicated in Azerbaijan by the war over 
Nagorno-Karabakh.  However, the power sector has seen significant investments from the IFIs in 
recent years, and Azerenergy’s financial dependence on the State is primarily a matter of 
political choices relating to the Government’s tariff policy and its privatization strategy for 
power distribution.  In 2002, the Government reorganized the power distribution networks into 
four regional companies and entered into long-term management contracts with private 
companies.  To attract operators and investors, the Government allowed the distributors to defer 
payments for a portion of the electricity they purchase from Azerenergy while they are building 
up their end-user payment collections.  Payments from the distribution companies to Azerenergy 
are scheduled to reach 100 percent in 2010.  
 
The delivery of affordable electricity and other utility services of acceptable quality is an 
essential requirement in enhancing the living standards of the population.  The Government has 
established a strategy to address this need, as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) 
for the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC–I, 2005).  This strategy has five components: 
 
·
Promoting increased private participation in the provision of utility services; 
·
Establishing a medium term tariff policy for Azerbaijan, which incorporates a transition 
to full cost recovery for utility service providers;  
·
Implementing international financial reporting standards, through the adoption and 
implementation of a new Accounting Law which will require, inter alia, that state-owned 
utilities adopt IFRS no later than January 1, 2008; 
·
Creating an appropriate regulatory environment; initially by establishing an independent 
regulatory agency covering the electricity, gas, water, and wastewater sectors; and 
·
Strengthening competition through a new Competition Law. 
 
The elements of the strategy outlined in the LDP are designed to support the Government’s 
vision of a financially viable and self-sustaining utilities sector which is able to attract a 
significant level of private sector participation, while providing efficient and cost effective 
service to the population.  
 
The Government, however, is also fully cognizant of the need to ensure that utility services 
provided to consumers within Azerbaijan are affordable.  As the economy continues to expand, 
the purchasing power of the population will continue to increase and, with it, the capacity to pay 
higher prices for utility services.  In addition, the development and implementation of a targeted 
social safety net that is now underway will ensure that the most vulnerable continue to be able to 
Page  3
afford essential utility services as prices rise towards, and eventually reach full cost recovery 
levels. Taking into account these considerations, the Government has taken the initial step of 
increasing prices of gas and water supply as of January 1, 2005, but has elected to defer increases 
in electricity tariffs until a later date. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The primary objective of the project is to improve the efficiency of the power transmission 
operation in Azerbaijan through technical and institutional strengthening of the 
generation/transmission utility.  The project has as a secondary objective to contribute to 
strengthening Azerenergy’s financial position. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
In the present international and domestic environment, private sector funding is not available to 
Azerbaijan on the scale needed for full rehabilitation of the power system. IFIs/donors (EBRD, 
KfW, Islamic Development Bank, and JBIC) have provided, and continue to provide significant 
funding to the sector for building new generation capacity and rehabilitating generation and 
transmission, thereby remedying some of the neglect of the system over the last 20 years.  Still, 
some of the equipment in use is more than 50 years old, and represents an ongoing risk to system 
reliability.  The Bank can not only help to fill the funding gap, but can also work with the 
Government to achieve the structural, legal and regulatory framework needed to attract private 
funding to the sector.  The proposed project would complement sector reforms that are being 
supported by the Bank's adjustment operations by providing needed investment
 
in power 
dispatch and transmission network rehabilitation.  Transmission is the backbone of the power 
system, and the current lack of an adequate dispatch system is both a risk to security of supply, 
and a cause of inefficient operations.  The Bank can offer extensive experience in the design and 
implementation of transmission rehabilitation projects in FSU countries, with lessons that are 
directly applicable to Azerbaijan.   
 
4. Description 
 
The components were selected on the basis of urgent needs of the power system and a division of 
focus among IFIs, with EBRD preparing a power generation project, and KfW financing 
transmission components complementary to those to be financed by IBRD.  The proposed 
project has four components, as follows: 
 
Component A: Power System Management
 
The first project component includes investments to upgrade the electricity dispatch system in 
the country, which in turn would support the reliable, secure and economic operation of the 
electricity sector, and facilitate financial settlements in a future wholesale electricity market.  
There are three main subcomponents:   
 
ƒ
SCADA/EMS system:  
installation of hardware and software to enable real time acquisition 
of operational information from generating stations and HV transmission system substations, 
Page  4
analysis and monitoring of the network status at the National Dispatch Center, and control 
and dispatch of the generating plants and the HV transmission system.   
 
ƒ
Telecommunications network upgrade
:
installation of communications equipment to meet 
the requirements of dispatch, metering, and HV network operations and maintenance.  It will 
also provide broadband communications facilities between major Azerenergy offices and 
generating plants to support improvements in Azerenergy financial management and 
administration. 
 
ƒ
Station adaptation and metering:
 adaptation of generating plant and substation control and 
metering circuits and equipment to provide alarm, status, and metering inputs to the RTUs 
and accept control outputs from the RTUs.  Fuel meters on each major thermal generating 
unit will be provided for economic dispatch. 
 
Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation 
 
The second component would cover priority investments in rehabilitation of high voltage 
transmission lines and selected high-voltage substations. The investments will enhance system 
reliability and help protect valuable system assets from costly damage.  Subprojects were 
selected based on priority and economic returns, and include increasing transformer capacity at 
four HV substations, rehabilitation of 12 transmission line segments, and some low-cost 
rehabilitation work on four additional substations.  Details of the subprojects are provided in 
Annex 4
.
Some of the subcomponents may change during project implementation subject to 
additional studies and a changing system environment (deterioration of existing equipment or 
emergence of system bottlenecks or weaknesses). 
 
Component C: Management Assistance 
 
The third component will provide technical assistance (TA) to improve the management systems 
of Azerenergy and prepare the company for a future restructured energy sector.  The TA includes 
(1) assistance in the company’s transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); 
(2) related development of an integrated management information system; (3) related revaluation 
of Azerenergy’s assets; (4) company and project audits; (5) development of an updated Grid 
Code; (6) transmission costing (as basis for separate transmission tariff); and (7) a transmission 
network stability study.  This component will also will provide TA to help Azerenergy ensure 
efficient implementation of the project.  The subcomponents include (8) dispatch system 
procurement support (started during project preparation); (9) project management and technical 
support; and (10) dispatch system training. 
 
Component D: Project Implementation
 
The fourth component will finance Incremental Operating Costs for the Project Implementation 
Unit (PIU). This subcomponent will be modest in size given that the PIU is part of the 
Azerenergy organization, with funding reserved for translation and interpretation work, 
incremental office equipment, international travel relevant to the project, and incremental office 
operating expenditures.  
 
Page  5
5. Financing 
 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 7.4 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
48.0 
 Total 
55.4 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Executing Agencies
:
The executing agency responsible for project management and 
implementation would be the Borrower, Azerenergy OJSC (open joint stock company). 
Azerenergy is the state-owned enterprise responsible for operation and management of the high-
voltage transmission network and the major thermal and hydroelectric generating stations.   
 
The executing agency on the Government’s side would be the Ministry of Finance.  The 
Ministry, and in some cases the Borrower, would provide coordination with other Government 
agencies, notably Ministry of Economic Development (MED), Ministry of Industry and Energy 
(MIE), Cabinet of Ministers, and the Tariff Council, and with bilateral and multilateral financing 
agencies as needed.  The Ministry of Finance may delegate some Government coordination and 
oversight responsibilities to other ministries (MED and/or MIE) that these ministries are believed 
to have the capacity to handle. 
 
Azerenergy has established a Project Implementation Unit for the proposed project, reporting to 
the Chief Engineer (First Deputy President) and staffed by specialists in technical, financial, 
environmental, and procurement matters, to act as the Bank’s counterpart on day-to-day matters.  
The PIU is currently responsible for project preparation.  Once the loan is approved and 
effective, the PIU will be responsible for project implementation, including procurement, 
contract supervision and management, and project financial management, including project 
accounting, financial reporting, loan disbursements, and arrangements for external audit.   
 
Project Implementation Capacity:  
Azerenergy has been the beneficiary and implementing 
agency in two major hydro rehabilitation projects financed by EBRD, a substation rehabilitation 
project financed by KfW, and reconstruction of a combined-cycle thermal power plant financed 
by JBIC.  The capacity of Azerenergy and the PIU to undertake their project implementation 
responsibilities is considered to be satisfactory, given their experience with previous projects and 
the technical skills of their staff.  However, the project would include financing for additional 
project management and specialist support during implementation to provide assistance in 
dealing with the technical complexities of the dispatching system and the new technologies 
involved. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The project enjoys strong support from the Government.  Assistance in improving the reliability 
and effectiveness of the high voltage transmission system was a key component of a request by 
the Government for sector investment funding.  The project is specifically noted in the agreed 
FY03-05 CAS, and the Government has taken a PHRD Grant for project preparation. 
Page  6
Over the longer term, the sustainability of the project will depend on: 
·
increasing Azerenergy's tariffs to cost-recovery level; 
·
the financial performance of electricity distribution companies and their orderly payments 
to Azerenergy for supply of electricity; and 
·
capacity building for the Azerenergy dispatchers; continuous SCADA computer system 
support; maintenance personnel and resources for the transmission system.  
 
The LDP attached to the PRSC
–I
lending operation includes the Government’s commitment to a 
medium-term tariff policy that would bring electricity tariffs to cost recovery levels no later than 
by 2010.  The path to such cost recovery is not yet laid out in detail, and will depend on progress 
with developing social protection programs and systems (as supported by an IDA credit) and the 
development in pensions, minimum wages, and other.  In the legal agreements for this project, 
the Government would be asked to commit to the mentioned tariff policy framework and to 
continue to provide financial support to Azerenergy sufficient to make up shortfalls in cash flow 
as a result of contractually-mandated non-payments by distribution companies and/or non-
compensatory tariffs until such time as these conditions no longer pertain. 
 
The financial performance of electricity distribution companies is essential to the sustainability 
of the entire power sector, and of Azerenergy in particular, since Azerenergy's revenues depend 
almost exclusively on payments from distribution companies.  The distribution companies have 
been transferred to private management, and their payments to Azerenergy are specified in the 
concession contracts.  In or before 2010, all distribution companies are contractually obligated to 
provide timely payment for their full supply of power from Azerenergy.  Technical assistance for 
capacity building is included in the scope of the Project.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The Bank has accumulated substantial experience in implementation of projects and 
understanding of the problems in the energy sector in Azerbaijan and in other countries in the 
region. The most important lesson is that the priority problems include two closely inter-related 
issues: sector governance and financial performance of the electricity (energy) companies. These 
are, of course, complex problems with legal, regulatory, structural, economic, financial, and 
technical aspects. Azerbaijan has only recently embarked on energy sector reform, and the 
process of restructuring, legal and regulatory reform, and enhancement of utility financial 
performance is a progression which is being supported by IDA adjustment operations (most 
recently, the PRSC–I (2005)).  The proposed project would complement these efforts with 
needed investment
 
in power system dispatch and transmission network rehabilitation. This 
integration of policy and investment support is designed to maximize their combined effect on 
the sector's financial position and sustainability of sector reforms.  
 
Procurement design and management, bid evaluation, project management and implementation 
coordination have been difficult challenges for borrowers in similar projects.  To minimize these 
challenges for Azerenergy and its PIU, the procurement strategy is based on two-stage bidding 
and a turnkey contract for the integrated dispatch system. Technical assistance by international 
Page  7
consultants is also included to assist the PIU during project implementation and for capacity 
building in operation of the new dispatch system and to enhance project sustainability.   
 
Finally, until the financial performance of sector enterprises improves (which will in turn require 
improvements in collections, tariffs, and social protection systems), the ability of the beneficiary 
organization to co-finance projects is limited. Recognizing that the improvements in financial 
performance will develop only in parallel with the implementation of the reform program, local 
financing contribution is kept relatively low in order to reduce the risk of implementation delays. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The project has been given an environmental category rating of B since proposed investments 
under the project will be confined to existing facilities and rights of way and as such are unlikely 
to trigger major environmental impacts or other safeguard policies.  As part of the EA, an 
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared to define procedures for mitigation of 
local impacts of the project during construction (e.g. repair of lines, replacement of transformer 
equipment) and disposal of waste materials and procedures for mitigation during operation (e.g. 
maintenance activities). Consultations about and disclosure of the EMP has taken place.  There 
will be no subprojects in disputed areas/conflict zones. 
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Azerenerji Joint Stock Company Final Feasibility Study Report 
Part I: Power Transmission Project (Feasibility Study) 
Part II: Rehabilitation Assessment (Environmental Assessment) 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Contact: Bjorn Hamso 
Title: Sr. Energy Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-1065 
Fax: (202) 614-1569 
Email: bhamso@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
