                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR1140



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72940)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$48 MILLION


                            TO AZERENERJI OJSC

         WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

                                        FOR A

                      POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT



                                     June 26, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 2, 2012)

                                        Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
                                            1.00 Manat = US$ 1.55
                                           US$ 1.00 = 0.79 Manat

                                                FISCAL YEAR
                                            January 1 – December 31


                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCC    Backup Control Center (for dispatch of electricity)         KfW        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                                 kV         Kilovolts
                                                                   kWh        Kilowatt hour
                                                                   LDP        Letter of Development Policy
CIS    Commonwealth of Independent States                          MDG        Millennium Development Goal
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy                                MED        Ministry of Economic Development
EA     Environmental Assessment                                    MIE        Ministry of Industry and Energy
EBRD   European Bank for Reconstruction and                        MIS        Management Information System
       Development                                                 MVA        Market Value Added
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return                            NDC        National Dispatch Center
EMP    Environmental Management Plan                               NPV        Net Present Value
EMS    Energy Management System                                    PAD        Project Appraisal Document
EU     European Union                                              PCB        Polychlorinated Biphenyls
FIRR   Financial Internal Rate of Return                           PCN        Project Concept Note
FM     Financial Management                                        PDO        Project Development Objectives
FSU    Former Soviet Union                                         PID        Project Information Document
GIC    Guaranteed Investment Certificate                           PIU        Project Implementation Unit
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                                      PLC        Power Line Carrier
HV     High Voltage                                                PPIAF      Public Private Infrastructure Advisory
                                                                              Facility
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and                   PRSC       Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
       Development
IDA    International Development Association                       PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IDP    Internally Displaced Person                                 RTU        Remote Terminal Unit
IDR    Issuer Default Rating                                       SCADA      Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
IFIs   International Financial Institutions                        SPPRED     State Program on Poverty Reduction and
IFRS   International Financial Reporting Standards                            Economic Development
ISDS   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet                            TA         Technical Assistance
ISR    Implementation Supervision Report                           USAID      United States Agency for International
JBIC   Japan Bank for International Cooperation                               Development


                                       Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou
                                     Country Director:       Asad Alam
                             Sector Manager/ Director:       Ranjit Lamech/ Laszlo Lovei
                                 Project Team Leader:        Salvador Rivera
                                    ICR Team Leader:         Yadviga Semikolenova
                                        AZERBAIJAN
                                POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT



                                                     CONTENTS



A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 57
Map IBRD 33695
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Power Transmission
Country:                Azerbaijan              Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P083341                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72940
ICR Date:               05/20/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 AZERENERJI OJSC
Original Total
                        USD 48.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 46.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 46.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Azerenerji
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: n/a
B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/03/2003    Effectiveness:             02/07/2006       03/24/2006
Appraisal:             02/11/2005    Restructuring(s):                           12/22/2010
Approval:              05/17/2005    Mid-term Review:           06/30/2008       04/14/2008
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010       12/31/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                          None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):


                                                i
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                            100                  100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development             100                100
E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Asad Alam                           D-M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Ranjit Lamech                       Peter D. Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Arturo S. Rivera                    Bjorn Hamso
ICR Team Leader:           Yadviga Semikolenova
ICR Primary Author:        Yadviga Semikolenova

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The primary objective of the Project was to improve the efficiency of the power
transmission operation in Azerbaijan through technical and institutional strengthening of
the generation/ transmission utility. The project has as a secondary objective to contribute
to strengthening Azerenerji’s financial position.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
 Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)         Values         Target Years
                Improved efficiency of fuel use per kWh of electricity generated through
Indicator 1 :
                Economic Dispatch and reduced transmission losses.
Value           353 grams of fuel per 0.5% fuel reduction                     314    grams     of
quantitative or kWh            generated per kWh produced                    equivalent      fuel
Qualitative)    electricity      (2007). in 2009 and 1.5%                    (with heat rate

                                                ii
                  Transmission  losses: reduction in 2010                      7kcal/g) per kWh
                  3.63% (2007); 4.05% because of the                           generated
                  (2008).               Economic Dispatch                      electricity  (11%
                                        feature   in   the                     reduction).
                                        SCADA system.
                                                                                Transmission
                                            Transmission losses                 losses: 3.6%.
                                            to be reduced by
                                            0.5 % because of
                                            the Optimal Power
                                            Flow feature.
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2010                          12/31/2011
                  Fuel reduction target achieved over 700%. This target was achieved in part due
                  to the rehabilitation of generating plants. Greater efficiencies will be achieved
Comments
                  once the new SCADA is in operation. Transmission losses in 2011 cannot be
(incl. %
                  compared to transmission losses in 2007 since other (old) transmission lines were
achievement).
                  added to Azerenerji system in 2005-2008, hence transmission system operated by
                  Azerenerji in 2007 is different from transmission system operated in 2011.
                  Improved quality of electricity supply with respect to frequency and voltage
Indicator 2 :
                  levels.
                  Frequency      fluctuations Frequency       50                 Frequency        50
Value             outside 50 Hz +/-0.5 Hz. Hz+/-0.5 Hz.                         Hz+/-0.5 Hz.
quantitative or   Voltage        fluctuations Voltage     within                Voltage       within
Qualitative)      outside band +5%/-10% band +5%/-10% of                        band +5%/-10% of
                  of target.                  target                            target
Date achieved     09/13/2006                  12/31/2010                        12/ 31/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 100%
achievement)
                Azerenerji's financial position strengthened (i.e. need for Govt. financial support
Indicator 3 :
                reduced/eliminated).
                                                                               No state subsidies
Value
                US$400 million subsidy No state subsidies                      for operational
quantitative or
                from the state (2004).      to Azerenerji.                     expenditures
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                12/31/2010                           12/31/2011
              Partially achieved. While Azerenerji stopped receiving state subsidies for the
Comments
              operational expenditures since 2008, it is still receiving government subsidies for
(incl. %
              the investment expenditures. In accordance with a Government decision,
achievement)
              Azerenerji buys gas at about a half of its market price.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                          Revised
                                               approval                     Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Wholesale payment collections in full.
Value             Payment      collections 100% wholesale                  100% wholesale
(quantitative     (wholesale level) 50% payment                           receipts considered

                                                 iii
or Qualitative) (2004)                       collections       in                 collected for 2010
                                             2010.                                and 2011. However,
                                                                                  wholesale bills are
                                                                                  systematically
                                                                                  underpaid;
                                                                                  Azerenerji
                                                                                  classifies most of
                                                                                  this debt as
                                                                                  impaired and
                                                                                  subsequently
                                                                                  written off
Date achieved     09/13/2006                  12/31/2010                          12/31/2011
                  The baseline value and the actual value achieved by the end of the Project are not
                  comparable because institutional arrangements between distribution companies
                  and Azerenerji changed since appraisal. During Project appraisal, the power
                  distribution networks were organized into four regional companies that were
                  managed by private operators. To attract operators and investors, the
                  Government allowed the distribution companies to defer payments for a portion
                  of the electricity they purchase from Azerenerji while they were building up their
                  end-user payment collections. Payments from the distribution companies to
Comments          Azerenerji were scheduled to reach 100% in 2010. In 2006, private distribution
(incl. %          operators were ousted and since then Azerenerji controls all distribution
achievement)      networks excluding Baku (with suburbs) and Nakhchivan; BakiElektrikShebeke
                  is in charge of Baku distribution. Wholesale collections improved dramatically
                  compared to 47% in 2006. However, systematic underpayment by wholesale
                  customers remains an issue. According to 2010 Auditor’s Letter, the largest
                  wholesale customer systematically underpays about 18% of its monthly bills.
                  Azerenerji classifies most of this debt as impaired, which is periodically written
                  off. For example, in 2010-2011, accounts receivables of about AZN 1.5 billion
                  (US$1.9 billion) from wholesale customers were written off (Decrees # 148 and
                  133).
Indicator 2 :     Tariffs to increase to cover full costs.
                                                                                   In general, tariff
                                                                                  level is adequate to
                                                                                  cover       operating
                                                                                  costs, assuming full
Value                                         Tariffs covering
                  Tariffs covering 64% of                                         collections.
(quantitative                                 100% of costs by
                  costs (2004).                                                   However, in 2010
or Qualitative)                               2010.
                                                                                  and 2011, revenue
                                                                                  after     collections
                                                                                  was inadequate to
                                                                                  recover costs.
Date achieved     09/13/2006                  12/31/2010                          12/31/2011
Comments           Achieved, but not sustained. The electricity tariffs were tripled in 2007. In 2009,
(incl. %          revenues were adequate to cover operating costs, including depreciation. In 2010,
achievement)      revenue after collections was about 6 percent below cost of supply.
Indicator 3 :     Transmission grid forced outages reduced.
Value             Total outages: 1424.5 hrs
                                                                                   158 hrs
(quantitative     (2003)                      Half of 2003
                                                                                  13,017 MWh
or Qualitative)   Lost load/yr: 81,062

                                                  iv
              MWh (2003)
Date achieved 12/31/2003                 12/31/2011                        12/31/2011
Comments       The target was achieved 170% for total outages and lost load. Between 2003-
(incl. %      2011, total outages were reduced by about 9 times and lost load reduced by about
achievement) 6 times

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                               Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1     08/23/2005          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     04/05/2006          Satisfactory          Satisfactory                        0.24
  3     09/28/2006          Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                 0.33
  4     01/14/2007          Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory                 0.35
  5     03/11/2008          Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                       7.08
                                                   Moderately
  6     06/19/2008        Satisfactory                                                 7.69
                                                 Unsatisfactory
 7      01/30/2009        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                16.00
 8      09/21/2009        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       25.46
 9      05/01/2010        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       34.59
 10     04/14/2011        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       41.64
 11     12/24/2011    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                       43.42


H. Restructuring (if any)

                                IST Ratings at    Amount
                  Board
Restructuring                   Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
                 Approved
   Date(s)                                      Restructuring    Key Changes Made
                PDO Change       DO      IP
                                               in USD million
                                                     40.1     The closing date was
                                                               extended by one year to
                                                               December 31, 2011. While
                                                               significant progress had
                                                               been        made,        with
 12/22/2010           N           S        S                   implementation      of    the
                                                               SCADA system, additional
                                                               time was required for
                                                               completion of the remaining
                                                               tasks to enable the system to
                                                               become fully operational.




                                               v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Since gaining independence from the Soviet Union, Azerbaijan experienced many of the
same challenges as other CIS transition states. The country’s problems were exacerbated,
however, by an armed conflict and a large population of refugees and Internally
Displaced Persons (IDPs). As a result, at the time of the Project’s appraisal in 2005
Azerbaijan was one of the seven lowest income countries of the Europe and Central Asia
Region.
By 2005, Azerbaijan had succeeded in achieving economic stabilization as a result of a
consistent program of fiscal restraint and prudent monetary policy. However, poverty
remained a serious concern, in part owing to the large numbers of IDPs (nearly a million
people) and in part to insufficient investment in labor-intensive sectors and supporting
infrastructure. Azerbaijan’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) for 2003-2005
identified six strategic pillars, which included infrastructure improvements (roads, utility
services, and irrigation); social protection reforms to serve the vulnerable more
effectively; and better conditions for refugees and IDPs.
The power sector performed poorly in the years since independence. Effective generation
capacity shrank due to insufficient funds for rehabilitation and capacity addition. In 2005,
existing capacity was inadequate to meet the domestic electricity demand. Many areas of
the country received only a few hours of electricity per day. System reliability was poor,
with frequent localized outages and occasional widespread system failures. In addition,
the sector was far from financially viable. Azerenerji (the state power generation and
transmission company and beneficiary under the Project) depended heavily on the State
to provide financial support through payment for power plant fuel (natural gas and
mazut) and electricity imports.
However, the power sector benefited from significant investments from international
financial institutions (IFIs), and Azerenerji’s financial dependence on the State was
primarily a matter of political choices relating to the Government’s tariff policy and its
privatization strategy for power distribution. In 2002, the Government reorganized the
power distribution networks into four regional companies and entered into long-term
management contracts with private companies1. To attract operators and investors, the
Government allowed the distribution companies to defer payments for a portion of the
electricity they purchased from Azerenerji while they were building up their end-user
payment collections. Payments from the distribution companies to Azerenerji were
scheduled to reach 100 percent in 2010.



1
  In 2002-2006, Barmek Holding AS managed the Baku and Sumgait distribution networks; power
distribution networks on the remaining mainland territory of Azerbaijan (i.e. excluding Nakhchivan
Autonomic Republic) were managed by private company “Baiva”. In 2006, private distribution operators
were ousted, and since then Azerenerji controls all of distribution network excluding Baku (with suburbs)
and Nakhchivan; BakiElektrikShebeke is in charge of the Baku distribution network.

                                                   1
The delivery of affordable electricity and other utility services of acceptable quality was
seen as an essential requirement in enhancing the living standards of the population. The
Government established a strategy to address this need and outlined it in the Letter of
Development Policy for the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-I, approved in
April, 2005). This strategy included promoting increased private participation in the
provision of utility services and establishing a medium-term tariff policy for Azerbaijan,
which incorporated a transition to full cost recovery for utility service providers.
The Government was also fully cognizant of the need to ensure that utility services
provided to consumers within Azerbaijan were affordable. The development and
implementation of a targeted social safety net was underway to ensure that the most
vulnerable continued to be able to afford essential utility services as prices rose to reach
full cost recovery levels. Taking into account these considerations, the Government took
the initial step of increasing prices of gas and water supply in January 2005, but chose to
defer increases in electricity tariffs.
Rationale for Bank involvement
At the time of the Project’s appraisal, private sector funding was not available to
Azerbaijan on the scale needed for full rehabilitation of the power system. IFIs/donors
(EBRD, KfW, Islamic Development Bank, and JBIC) had been providing significant
funding to the sector for building new generation capacity and rehabilitating generation
and transmission, thereby remedying some of the neglect of the system over two decades.
Still, some of the equipment in use was more than 50 years old, and represented a risk to
system reliability. With the Project, the Bank could not only help to fill the funding gap,
but could also work with the Government to achieve the structural, legal and regulatory
framework needed to attract private funding to the sector.
The Project was to complement sector reforms that had been supported by the Bank’s
adjustment operations by providing needed investment in power dispatch and
transmission network rehabilitation. As transmission is the backbone of the power
system, the lack of an adequate dispatch system was both a risk to security of supply and
a cause of inefficient operations. The Bank could offer extensive experience in the design
and implementation of transmission rehabilitation projects in FSU countries, with lessons
that were directly applicable to Azerbaijan.
Higher level objectives to which the Project was to contribute
The Project to rehabilitate the power transmission system was to contribute to the PRSP
by improving the conditions for economic growth through more reliable electricity
supply; reducing the cost of electricity through improved technical and financial
management of the transmission system; and improving the basis for private participation
in energy infrastructure development by upgrading the power transmission system to
enable dispatch and transmission of electricity consistent with contractual arrangements.
The Project was included in the FY2003-2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
investment program in the context of improving access to services by reversing the
decline in social services and infrastructure, which was one of the four strategic goals of
the CAS.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


                                             2
The primary objective of the Project was to improve the efficiency of the power
transmission operation in Azerbaijan through technical and institutional strengthening of
the generation/ transmission utility. The project had as a secondary objective to
contribute to strengthening Azerenerji’s financial position.
The key performance indicators that were used to assess the fulfillment of the project’s
development objectives are: (i) improved efficiency of fuel use per kWh of electricity
generated through Economic Dispatch and reduced transmission losses; (ii) improved
reliability and quality of electricity supply with respect to frequency and duration of
forced outages; and (iii) strengthened financial position (i.e. need for government
financial support reduced/ eliminated) as a consequence of (a) tariffs that increase over
time to cover full costs, and (b) increased payment collections.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the Project were consumers of electricity: they were expected
to benefit from improved efficiency, reliability and quality of electricity supply resulting
from successful Project implementation. Azereneji was another beneficiary of the
Project: they were expected to benefit from successful implementation of the Project
components that targeted institutional, operational and financial strengthening of the
national utility.

1.5 Original Components
The Project had four components. These components were selected on the basis of urgent
needs of the power system and a division of focus among IFIs, with EBRD at the time
preparing a power generation project, and KfW financing transmission components
complementary to those to be financed by the Project. The four Project components were
as follows:
Component A: Power System Management
To improve the efficiency of the power transmission operations in Azerbaijan and
increase reliability and quality of electricity supply, this Project component included
investments to upgrade the electricity dispatch system in the country. There were three
main subcomponents:
   SCADA/EMS2 system: installation of hardware and software to enable real time
      acquisition of operational information from generating stations and HV
      transmission system substations, construction and equipping of Backup Control
      Center with proper hardware and software, analysis and monitoring of the network
      status at the National Dispatch Center or Backup Control Center, and control and
      dispatch of the generating plants and the HV transmission system;




2
    SCADA/ EMS: Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition/ Energy Management System.

                                                 3
        Telecommunications network upgrade: installation of communications
         equipment to meet the requirements of dispatch, metering, and HV network
         operations and maintenance. It was also expected to provide broadband
         communications facilities between major Azerenerji offices and generating plants to
         support improvements in Azerenerji financial management and administration;
        Station adaptation and metering: adaptation of generating plant and substation
         control and metering circuits and equipment to provide alarm, status, and metering
         inputs to the Remote Terminal Units (RTUs)3 and accept control outputs from the
         RTUs.
Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation
To enhance system reliability and help protect valuable system assets from costly
damage, the second component was to cover priority investments in rehabilitation of high
voltage transmission lines and selected high-voltage substations. Subprojects were
selected based on priority and economic returns, and included increasing transformer
capacity at four HV substations, rehabilitation of 12 transmission line segments, and
some low-cost rehabilitation work on four additional substations. The original
subprojects are listed in Annex 2
Component C: Management Assistance
In order to support strengthening of Azerenerji’s financial position and contribute to its
institutional development, the third component was designed to provide technical
assistance (TA) to improve the management systems of Azerenerji and prepare the
company for a future restructured energy sector. The TA included: (1) assistance in the
company’s transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); (2) related
development of an integrated management information system; (3) related revaluation o f
Azerenerji’s assets; (4) company and project audits; (5) development of an updated Grid
Code; (6) transmission costing (as basis for separate transmission tariff); and (7) a
transmission network stability study.
This component was expected to also provide TA to help Azerenerji ensure efficient
implementation of the project; it included: (8) dispatch system procurement support; (9)
project management and technical support; and (10) dispatch system training.
Component D: Project Implementation
The fourth component was to finance Incremental Operating Costs for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). This subcomponent was modest in size given that the PIU
was a part of the Azerenerji organization, with funding reserved for translation and
interpretation work, incremental office equipment, international travel relevant to the
Project, and incremental office operating expenditures.
During Project preparation, it was expected that some of the subprojects/ subcomponents
under Components B and C might change during Project implementation subject to
additional studies and changing system environment (e.g., deterioration of existing
equipment, emergence of system bottlenecks or weaknesses, etc).


3
    SCADA equipment installed at substations and generating plants.

                                                     4
1.6 Revised Components
There was no revision to the components of the Project.

1.7 Other significant changes
During Project implementation, the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) developed the
following documents within the framework of a TA program funded by the EU: (i)
updated Grid Code; and (ii) transmission costing. As a result, there was no need for
Azerenerji to undertake those studies under Component C. The completion of these tasks
by the Ministry, and not Azerenerji, was justified since usually Grid Code and
transmission costing are done at the national level since these documents establish power
market rules.
Additionally, Azerenerji decided that it was of critical and strategic importance to finance
the following items, originally also included under Component C, with their own funds: (i)
dispatch system training; (ii) assistance in the company's transition to International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); and (iii) related development of an integrated
management information system. As a result, over the life of the Project, Azerenerji’s
contribution to the Project was higher than envisioned at appraisal: not US$7.4 million, but
US$8 million.
The Closing Date of the Project was extended by one year, from December 31, 2010, to
December 31, 2011. The undisbursed balance US$1.77 million was cancelled on April 30,
2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Project’s quality at entry was high and the Project was based on a sound background
analysis; all major risks were identified and appropriate mitigation measures were
proposed. By the time the Project was being conceptualized, the Bank had accumulated
substantial experience in implementation of similar projects in the countries in the region.
Moreover, the Bank had a deep understanding of the problems in the energy sector of
Azerbaijan and had been engaged in high-level dialogue to address those.
The Government was committed to the successful achievement of the Project’s
development objectives. The Government’s strategy to address sector governance issues
and financial performance of the energy companies was outlined in the Letter of
Development Policy for the PRSC-I. This strategy included, among other things,
establishing a medium-term tariff policy for Azerbaijan to enable a transition to full cost
recovery for utility service providers; and implementing international financial reporting
standards. The Government also committed to provide necessary financial and/ or in-kind
support to Azerenerji to enable it to meet its obligations under the Legal Agreement.
The most important lesson incorporated in the Project’s design was that the priority
problems included two closely inter-related issues: sector governance and financial
performance of the energy companies. At the time of Project preparation, Azerbaijan had
only recently embarked on energy sector reform. The process of restructuring, legal and

                                             5
regulatory reform, as well as enhancement of utility financial performance was a
progression which was supported by an IDA adjustment operation (PRSC-I (P074938,
2005)). The Project was to complement those efforts with needed investment in power
system dispatch and transmission network rehabilitation. This integration of policy and
investment support was designed to maximize their combined effect on the sector's
financial position and sustainability of sector reforms.
The investment and technical assistance components of the Project were based on a
feasibility study prepared in November, 2004, by Azerenerji’s consultant engineer. This
report provided a good basis to select the Project components, and estimate costs and
benefits. Based on the feasibility study, the procurement of the SCADA system (with
prequalification) started early, in the summer of 2004, during Project preparation, using a
PHRD Grant (TF052680-PHRD-Azerbaijan: Energy Project).
Procurement design and management, bid evaluation, project management and
implementation coordination had been difficult challenges for borrowers in similar
projects. In general, at the time Azerenerji was an inexperienced client, working with the
Bank for the first time. To minimize procurement challenges for Azerenerji and its PIU,
the procurement strategy was based on two-stage bidding and a turnkey contract for the
integrated dispatch system. Technical assistance by international consultants was also
included to assist the PIU during project implementation and for capacity building in
operation of the new dispatch system and to enhance project sustainability.
Finally, until the financial performance of sector enterprises improved (which would in
turn require improvements in collections, tariffs, and social protection systems), the
ability of Azerenerji to co-finance projects, was recognized as limited. Acknowledging
that the improvements in financial performance would develop only in parallel with the
implementation of the reform program, the local financing contribution was kept
relatively low in order to reduce the risk of implementation delays.
During the preparation stage, the team identified all the major implementation risks and
recommended mitigation measures. The overall risk rating was assessed as substantial.
The main identified risks included: (i) loss of Government commitment to the principles of
cost-recovery tariffs; (ii) failure to establish adequate social protection systems; and (iii)
Project implementation delays due to lack of local financing and poor Project management.
The first two risks were addressed through adjustment lending (PRSC-I) and Pension and
Social Assistance Project (P049892, 2004). The last risk was mitigated through TA for
Project management during implementation (Component C); also, the local financing
requirement was minimized.

2.2 Implementation
The key factors that contributed to the success of implementation were:
     Commitment of the Government to improving financial viability of power
      sector. Electricity tariffs were tripled in January 2007 which boosted revenues of
      Azerenerij. Equally important for improving collections was a Government-
      championed roll-out of new end-user metering equipment which was completed by
      2008. The Government fulfilled its commitment, agreed during Project preparation,
      to financially support Azerenerji and compensate them for operational losses. After

                                              6
             the tariff increase in 2007, government support to Azerenerji has been consistently
             decreasing, because the utility’s financial position has improved. In 2009,
             Azerenerji received no direct government transfers. Currently, Azerenerji receives
             investment support as well as fuel subsidies from the Government.
            The quality of the technical specifications and of the tendering and
             procurement process. Technical specifications for SCADA and transmission
             rehabilitation components were prepared at a very high professional level with the
             assistance of owner’s consultant engineer, which contributed to an efficient
             procurement process and hence implementation of the project.
            The quality of the actual implementation and technical management of the
             SCADA/EMS and transmission rehabilitation subprojects. The PIU provided
             quality technical management of the works. The PIU developed a good working
             relationship with the owner’s consultant engineer and closely cooperated with the
             Bank team. The PIU’s decision to hire an international Project Management
             consultant significantly improved the implementation of the SCADA/EMS
             component.      Transmission rehabilitation subprojects were implemented by
             Azerenerji under supervision of the contractors’ representatives; this arrangement
             had a highly positive impact on quality and timely implementation of subprojects.
            Proactive supervision by the Bank’s team. Because Project implementation
             experienced delays, a mid-term review of the Project was conducted in April 2008,
             two months earlier than originally planned. At the time of the review, the mission
             rated the Project’s implementation progress as Unsatisfactory. The review
             highlighted the following issues: (i) delays in effectiveness of the contract with
             SCADA supplier; (ii) inadequate FM and procurement staffing of the PIU; and (iii)
             non-compliance with financial reporting requirements. The Bank team, together
             with Azerenerji, put together a 19-point action plan to address the issues above and
             closely followed its implementation. Taking this action at the mid-term review
             contributed to the Project’s success. Most of the actions on the list were completed
             within six months after the mid-term review. As a result, disbursements increased
             for all Project components and there was dramatic improvement in the PIU
             performance (the PIU received its own space; a financial specialist and a Project
             Management Advisor came on board in 2008).
The main issues that gave rise to problems were:
       Complexity of SCADA component. Procuring (and implementing) SCADA for
        Azerbaijan has been among the most complex technical undertakings in the sector to
        date. The scale of this endeavor was the primary reason for the implementation delays,
        mostly because of:
        i.    The complexity of work that went into preparation of technical specifications and
              evaluation of bidding documents (bidding documents plus technical specifications
              were about 1,700 pages). The technical complexity of SCADA/ EMS component
              led to delays in preparation of the technical specifications. Due to the magnitude
              of the task to obtain compliance with detailed specifications, it took Azerenerji
              and their consultant engineer 9 months from having received the bids to prepare a
              Bid Evaluation Report;

                                                   7
     ii.   Difficulties of SCADA design. At the stage of signing the contract’s Statement of
           Work with the SCADA supplier it was discovered that the bidder had not taken
           into account all necessary technical modifications; it made significant technical
           changes in the Stage 2 financial offer and did not provide adequate explanation of
           those changes. As a result, the proposed technical changes became the subject of
           long disputes, disagreements, change orders, and delays in Project
           implementation;
    iii.   Necessity for sufficient resources and expertise to carry out the station/substation
           adaptation task. The control and metering circuits at existing substations and
           generation plants needed to be modified for connection to SCADA system’s
           RTUs. Azerenerji assessed that station/substation adaptation could be performed
           using its own Construction Department resources. However, it turned out during
           the Project implementation that the Construction Department was split off from
           Azerenerji into a new construction company that was also a subsidiary of
           Azerenerji. Azerenerji had also underestimated its capacity to carry out both the
           detailed design and the installation of the station adaptation work. After long
           delays and negotiations, Azerenerji was able to have the SCADA supplier prepare
           the station adaptation designs and the construction company to perform the
           installation work. The insufficient quality and progress rate of the adaptation
           works resulted in project delays and many errors and deficiencies that required
           corrections and adjustments.
     Limited experience of Azerenerji to deal with international contract
      administration. During contract negotiations with the SCADA supplier, Azerenerji
      agreed to pay the supplier’s subcontractor directly, which is not a good practice from
      a contract administration point of view. This decision resulted in additional
      requirements for contract effectiveness (i.e., issuing advance payment and letter for
      credit to supplier’s subcontractor). As a result, the effectiveness of the contract with
      the SCADA supplier was delayed.
     Limited experience of the PIU. Azerenerji at first underestimated the administrative
      and procurement challenges of the Project implementation. The PIU at the outset
      lacked a fully-developed plan for its staffing, and initial procurement plans were
      lagging in most areas; record keeping of procurement activity and contract
      management were inadequate; the PIU members did not work in the same office, but
      were located in different parts of Azerenerji.
The delays in Component A (SCADA/ EMS) implementation caused the extension of the
Project. However, despite difficulties and complexity of SCADA/ EMS implementation,
the Project was extended only once and the Project outcomes were satisfactory.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Monitoring and evaluation of the Project was adequately designed. The appropriate
monitoring indicators were selected that were directly relevant to the achievement of the
Project development objective. The indicators were quantifiable, relevant and measurable.
During Project preparation the Bank team and the PIU designed a data collection format
and developed a plan for data collection to establish baseline indicators. Monitoring and
data collection was the responsibility of Azerenerji.

                                                8
Azerenerji initially did not have the capacity to collect and provide data that met the
requirements set by the Bank team, particularly on grid outages statistics and hydro
generation performance. The Bank team worked closely with Azerenerji to improve
cooperation and coordination within its departments in order to build up Azerenerji’s
capacity to collect and provide all of the necessary results monitoring data. Still, after the
data collection format was finalized, the baseline indicators were established and the
Bank was satisfied with the quality of the data received, coordination between different
departments of Azerenerji remained an issue. As a result, Azerenerji did not consistently
report operations data needed to assess Project performance. The necessary monitoring
information was sent after it was requested by the Bank.
The quality of data provided by Azerenerji met the Bank requirements. The values of the
indicators were integrated in Aide Memoires, PSRs and ISRs.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The Project triggered OP/ BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment (EA) as the high voltage
transformers and switchgear contained potentially hazardous material. The proposed
investments under the Project were to be confined to existing facilities and as such were
unlikely to trigger major environmental impacts or other safeguard policies. An EA was
carried out and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared to define
procedures for mitigation of local impacts of the project during construction (e.g. repair of
lines, replacement of transformer equipment) and disposal of waste materials and procedures
for mitigation during operation (e.g. maintenance activities). Satisfactory consultations
about and disclosure of the EMP took place. There was no presence of polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCB) in the transformer oil used in Azerbaijan. There were no subprojects in
disputed areas/conflict zones. Implementation of EMP was closely followed by
Azerenerji, and the Bank supervision team received regular reports of the contracts for
orderly removal of old equipment, transformer oils and scrap metal, and the status of
measurements of electric and magnetic fields.
An FM reporting process was established at the start of implementation with the
assistance of the Bank’s FM specialist. A Project accounting syst em was established to
produce regular quarterly reports. These were later integrated into the company’s
Management Information System (MIS). The quarterly reports were consistently
submitted in a timely manner and were acceptable to the Bank. FM arrangements
established by Azerenerji were found to be fully satisfactory and Azerenerji’s
performance to be fully compliant with Bank standards. 2006 audit of Azerenerji
accounts was submitted with a significant delay in 2009 as a result of poor delivery
performance of the auditors. Significant progress was observed regarding FM governance
of Azerenerji particularly during the last two years of the Project implementation (2010
and 2011). Azerenerji transitioned to IFRS in 2010.
All procurement was carried out consistent with Bank Guidelines and in accordance with
the methods and thresholds specified in the Legal Agreement. Procurement plans were
reviewed and updated during each mission. Azerenerji’s owner’s consultant engineer
assisted with preparation of all bidding documents for SCADA/EMS at an early stage; in
2007 a local Procurement Specialist was engaged to deliver 2 other big procurement
packages for the transmission rehabilitation component. The technical complexity of the

                                              9
SCADA/ EMS component led to delays in preparation of the technical specifications, and
the procurement process took longer than originally anticipated. However, by the end of
the Project, all contracts for equipment had been completed satisfactorily, due to an
improvement in procurement capacity of the PIU.

2.5 Covenant Compliance4
Azerenerji did not comply with the current ratio covenant in 2009-2011, and the debt
service ratio covenant in 2009-2010. The main reason for low current and debt service
ratios was Government’s decision to launch a massive rehabilitation and construction
investment plan in generation and transmission in particular. After reviewing
Azerenerji’s 2009 audit, the Bank team, together with Azerenerji, developed an action
plan that would allow Azerenerji to address the issue of non-compliance with the
covenants. The agreed action plan included: (a) improvements on collection of
receivables through loss reductions and improved revenue collection; (b) gradual tariff
adjustments; (c) reclassification of IFIs loans from current liabilities to long term
liabilities; (d) further steps in the corporatization process, particularly the establishment
of a risk management and budgeting unit by December 2012.
Based on the action plan, Azerenerji launched an ambitious commercial restructuring and
financing plan, which is expected to positively affect Azerenerji’s finances starting 2015 -
2017. In March, 2011, Azerenerji requested a waiver for the 2010 fiscal year in terms of
the current ratio and debt service covenants. After due consideration the Bank accepted to
waive compliance by Azerenerji with the current ratio and the debt service ratio
covenants. Similar waiver for the fiscal year 2011 was granted in February, 2012.

2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
A significant portion of the investment financed by the Project was the installation of a
state of the art SCADA/ EMS which is now largely operational. For the system to
become fully operational, system tests need to be completed. The tests are expected to be
completed in June 2012.
Extensive training has been provided to Azerenerji by the SCADA supplier, but more
hands-on training is needed to improve project sustainability. Azerenerji has negotiated
with the supplier that it will provide additional training to Azerenerji staff on operation of
SCADA/ EMS and telecommunication systems. These trainings are scheduled for mid-
2012. After the system is fully operational, a supplier specialist will be embedded into the
Azerenerji SCADA/EMS technical support team for one year, until spring 2013, to
continue hands-on operational training of Azerenerji staff.
Azerenerji’s Dispatch Manual needs to be updated. Azerenerji stated that they were in
negotiations with a European power utility to assist in developing an updated Manual that
would cover the use of the EMS functions and cross-border energy transactions.




4
  The legal covenants included: (i) current ratio not less than 1.2; (ii) debt service ratio not less than 1.5;
(iii) the Government to provide financial and/or in-kind contribution to enable Azerenerji to meet
obligations under the Legal Agreement.

                                                     10
Azerenerji has taken a number of steps to ensure that established FM governance is
sustained. To address auditors’ recommendations in 2010 audit, Azerenerji established a
separate department for automatic billing in 2011. Furthermore, Azerenerji launched an
ambitious commercial restructuring and financing plan including measures to improve
collections on the distribution side of the business and write-offs of its payables and
receivables. It is expected that the results on Azerenerji’s finances will start showing up
in 2015-2017.
The monitoring and evaluation system, including the set of indicators used for the Project,
remains relevant. Once the SCADA system becomes fully operational, it will provide all
the necessary information for the Project indicators thus eliminating the problem of inter-
departmental coordination. The Bank will continue dialogue with Azerenerji to ensure
that SCADA system becomes fully operational and that Project indicators continue to be
used and utilized to monitor system performance.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The Project development objective (PDO) and design still remain highly relevant to the
current development priorities of the Azeri Government. The 2009 financial crisis
heightened the Government’s resolve to transform itself into a diversified, globally-
integrated competitive economy. Improving and expanding infrastructure in power
supply is seen as a critical input. The need to ensure uninterrupted power supply remains
a priority, and SCADA/EMS is a key element of power sector reform and modernization.
The necessity to enhance the business environment, including commercialization and
financial sustainability of state-owned enterprises, is equally an important goal. In
addition, regional power trade is one of the Government’s strategic focuses. By
improving effectiveness of the electricity market operations and reducing losses through
utilization of SCADA/ EMS, the Project contributes to the Government’s overall long-
term goals.
Thus, the PDO and design were and still are fully aligned with the Government’s
objectives. The Bank provided adequate, timely and proactive implementation support to
ensure successful achievement of the PDO.
The PDO is also consistent with the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
FY11-14. One of the two pillars in the CPS is building a competitive non-oil economy.
Reliable and efficient power supply is fundamental to developing a competitive business
environment. An efficient, financially-viable generation/transmission utility is essential
for a properly-operated, regionally integrated electricity market.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project has been successful in achieving its PDO. By the Project’s closing date, the
SCADA system was substantially completed and transmission rehabilitation subprojects
were fully completed. As intended, technical and institutional strengthening of Azerenerji
has brought about improvements in the efficiency of power transmission. The efficiency
of power transmission operation has improved, as reflected in the respective monitoring


                                            11
indicators. The corporate and financial management of Azerenerj has shown impressive
progress.
During the Project, the efficiency of fuel use per kWh of electricity generated improved
and is expected to improve further, when the SCADA system becomes fully operational.
Much of the improvement was due to the additional generation built by Azerenerji during
the lifetime of the Project, but further improvements are likely once the SCADA/EMS
system is in full operation. The quality of electricity supply was increased with respect to
frequency and voltage levels. Despite tripling of tariffs in 2007, collection rates have
been consistently improving: from 61 percent in 2006 to about 90 percent in 2011.
The Project has also significantly contributed to strengthening of Azerenerji’s financial
management system and internal controls, including preparation of IFRS-based accounts.
Azerenerji has completed financial audits since 2006. In 2008, it received unqualified
(clean) audit; it has addressed auditors’ recommendations of 2009 and 2010 audits.
A positive impact of the Project on the economy has taken place through more efficient
electricity supply to households and enterprises. Electricity supply has improved along
the entire grid, supporting economic activity in the process. There has been a significant
turnaround in billings and collections. SCADA/EMS has provided the technical means to
enable efficient provision of quality power supply by accurate measurement of power,
respectively accurate billing and improved system stability through efficient power
dispatch.

3.3 Efficiency
Economic
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out using similar assumptions as those at Project
appraisal, except where the data were available in a different form. Quantifiable benefits
of the Project include: (1) improvements in power plant scheduling resulting in lower
overall fuel costs; (2) lower transmission losses; (3) lower operational costs in
administration, data logging and reporting; (4) reduced faults on the line leading to
improved outage times; and (5) avoided load shedding due to increased capacity of
transformers. The economic benefits were measured using the average regional electricity
price. Since 2007, Azerbaijan is a net electricity exporter, so the opportunity cost of
power losses is foregone export revenues.
The overall net present value is estimated to be US$80 million, compared to US$145.1
million at appraisal. The internal economic rate of return (EIRR) was estimated to be
28%, compared to 39% at appraisal. The estimated EIRR is lower than at appraisal,
because the expected benefits of SCADA will be utilized later than assumed initially.
Financial
A financial analysis was carried out for the same components. The only difference from
the economic analysis is that the benefits were valued at the domestic electricity and fuel
prices, US$0.075 /kWh and US$0.01-0.03/ kWh (depending on a year) respectively. The
financial internal rate of return was estimated to be 19%.
Table 2 below summarizes Project’s rates of return.


                                            12
                         Table 2: Summary of Project Rates of Return
                                                           NPV                       NPV
                                                EIRR                    FIRR
                                                          US$ mln                   US$ mln
               SCADA/ EMS                       22.1%       39.5        11.7%         4.0
         Transmission System Rehab               41%        43.8         32%          26.7
                  Transmission Line Component    69%        33.6         56%           22.0
           Transformer Replacement Component     21%        10.3         16%            4.7
      Total Project                             28%         80.0        19%           30.3

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The Project is considered to be satisfactory in terms of the overall outcome. By the time
the Project closed, the SCADA component was substantially completed (by 95%), the
transmission system rehabilitation component was fully completed, and management
assistance component was completed. The reason the outcome is rated satisfactory, and
not highly satisfactory, is due to the fact that the SCADA system tests are still ongoing5.
As discussed above, the PDO remains highly relevant to the current priorities of the
Government and the Bank (as stated in current CPS). The PDO has been achieved as
measured by targets established at appraisal. As a result of the investment, the
transmission and distribution systems, as well as institutional structure of Azerenerji,
have undergone significant improvements that fulfill the key goal of providing reliable
power supply to consumers.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable to this project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
During Project implementation, Azerenerji has gone through significant transformation.
Some of the highlights of the long-term improvements are:
  Reporting and planning has improved with regular monthly, quarterly and annual
     reports, which combine financial, corporate and operational information;
  Financial audits are conducted based on IFRS;
  Azerenerji received unqualified (clean) audit in 2008;
  Operation and maintenance of the transmission system is improving;
  Capacity of Azerenerji to manage complex investment projects has increased.
The above outcomes (except for unqualified audit) have been sustained for two years.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/a

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/a


5
 For SCADA/EMS system to be fully operational, it has to run without any issues for three consecutive
months. The tests of the system are still ongoing.

                                                 13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome has been evaluated with respect to a number of criteria
as summarized below:
 Technical risk is assessed as low and manageable. Most of the technologies
    introduced are well-established and Azerenerji has received training in applications
    that were new to the company.
 Financial risk is assessed as moderate. Azerenerji’s financial position has improved
    since 2007. The company has also launched a commercial restructuring and financing
    plan, which is expected to have positive results on its finances in 2015-2017. Still,
    cost-recovery tariffs and systematic underpayment of large wholesale customers
    remain an issue. In 2010 and 2011, the tariff was inadequate to recover costs, once
    collections were taken into account. BakiElektrikShebeke, which is in charge of the
    Baku distribution network and is the largest wholesale customer of Azerenerji,
    systematically underpays about 18 percent of its monthly bills. No tariff increases
    happened since 2007 and none are expected. With the domestic inflation rate as high
    as 8.3 percent, zero tariff increase in nominal terms over a period of a decade is
    equivalent to more than 50 percent decrease in real terms. As Azerenerji’s cost
    structure evolves over time, the infrequency of tariff adjustments could lead to
    divergence in the company’s operating margin.
 Economic risk is assessed as moderate. The recent economic crisis had limited
    impact on sector operations.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. Objectives of the
Project and its components were well defined and consistent with country priorities and
CPS objectives. Bank team was instrumental in obtaining the PHRD grant, which enabled
project preparation experience for the PIU and preparation of bidding documents before
effectiveness.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Supervision of the Project was carried out on a regular basis with numerous formal
missions over the Project life, including a detailed mid-term review. The Bank team’s
recommendations during the mid-term review were instrumental in turning the project
around and ensuring its successful completion. An average of three missions per year
over the lifetime of the project, plus field office continuous engagement, helped secure
close cooperation with the government and to supervise the technical aspects of the
Project. All aspects of the Project implementation were proactively addressed during the
missions, including action plan to improve compliance with the legal covenants; potential
problem areas were highlighted and steps to resolve issues were agreed with Azerenerji.

                                           14
The subsequent missions followed up on the implementation of the agreed steps and
resulting outcomes. Critical Project and sector-related issues were addressed via Aid
Memoires and follow-up letters. The Bank team had appropriate skills mix and adequate
budget to effectively monitor Project implementation. The Bank team closely monitored
implementation of the SCADA contract and recommended to contract the supplier for an
additional year of training on SCADA.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on satisfactory quality at entry and supervision, the overall Bank performance is
rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government was highly supportive in all aspects of Project implementation. The
Government took the necessary steps to improve financial viability of the sector: it
provided direct financial support to Azerenerji as agreed during Project preparation,
increased electricity tariffs and started decreasing direct support to Azerenerji as the
utility’s financial position improved. Without full commitment of the Government to a
properly sequenced reform process and its willingness to partner closely with the Bank,
the Project could not have been implemented successfully and the Project development
objectives would not have been achieved.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Implementing Agency’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory because
Azerenerji did not comply with all legal covenants. Also there is no evidence that
Azerenerji will continue using established Project indicators to monitor system
performance. The financial management and procurement functions were performed in a
satisfactory manner by the PIU. Despite initial staffing shortcomings, the PIU went on to
provide quality technical management of the Project implementation, was prepared for
missions and complied with requests for supplementary information. Field trips to
observe implementation progress were efficiently organized and missions received
attention of the top management. There was close cooperation between the PIU and the
Bank team.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on satisfactory Government performance and moderately satisfactory performance
of the Implementing Agency, the overall Borrower performance is rated moderately
satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
1.     Government commitment to reform is essential and needs to be maintained
to ensure sustainability of the Project outcomes. The Government’s stance on financial
                                            15
reforms was crucial to achieving PDOs. The Government followed through on its
commitment to increase tariffs, which improved financial position of the power sector
and moved Azerenerji towards becoming a financially sustainable utility. Government-
promoted installation of new end-user metering equipment played an important role in
improving collections. However, for sustainability of the Project’s achievements, the
Government needs to maintain its commitment to ensure cost-recovery tariffs: tariffs
need to be systematically adjusted to reflect the full cost of service.
2.      The difficulty of introducing modern SCADA/ EMS must not be
underestimated with respect to complexity, unexpected developments during
installation and implementation time. Design of a project of installation of
SCADA/EMS for a power sector which faces operational, structural and technical
problems should allocate ample time for the project’s timely completion. Under such
conditions, it is critical not to misjudge the complexity of developing technical
specifications and checking for compliance with those during the procurement process. It
is also essential to ensure that necessary resources and qualifications are allocated to
adaptation of substations and generating plants for connection to the SCADA/ EMS
system. Knowledge transfer is also important for proper SCADA/ EMS system operation.
Hands-on dispatch staff training by a SCADA vendor is essential for the efficient use of
the system to its full capacity.
3.      Commitment and strong Project ownership by an implementing agency is
critical. During the life of the Project, Azerenerji went through a process of a dramatic
transformation: from a Soviet-type state-owned utility to a corporatized public entity.
Increasing efficiency of electricity market operations through installing SCADA/ EMS
and improving internal governance through introducing proper financial management
system and internal controls have been among main priorities of Azerenerji. Despite the
fact that at the beginning of the Project Azerenerji had limited experience of dealing with
international investments, by the end of the Project the utility has transformed into a
reliable player ready to enter the regional electricity market.
4.      Close bank supervision and continuity of staff is essential for a successful
project implementation. Introduction of SCADA/ EMS, in parallel with energy sector
reforms, is a complex, multifaceted undertaking and requires more than normal Bank
supervision. An average of three missions per year over the lifetime of the project, plus
field office continuous engagement, helped secure close cooperation with the government
and to supervise the technical aspects of the Project. When working with a PIU with
limited experience of implementing complex projects implementation, it is important to
ensure adequate capacity building. It is also important to assist the PIU in developing its
monitoring and evaluation capacity.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments on the draft ICR were received from the Borrower and were taken into
account.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/a
(c) Other partners and stakeholders

                                            16
N/a




      17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                       Percentage of
           Components                               Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 SCADA system                                              35.7
                                        45.86                                                110
 Transmission system rehab.                                14.7
 Management Assistance                   3.3                2.2                               67
 Project Implementation                  0.7                1.5                              214
Unallocated                              0.2

               Total Baseline Cost               50.0                     54.1               108
Physical Contingencies
                                                  2.6                      0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                  2.6                      0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs                 55.2                     54.1                98
Front-end fee PPF                                 0.00                     0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.2                      0.2               100
     Total Financing Required                    55.4                     54.3                98




(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                              Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                            Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                             millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                       7.4         8.0        108
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                   48.0           46.3             96
and Development




6
    At appraisal, the cost of these two components was combined.


                                                    18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component

 Component A: Power System Management
 Component A included investments to upgrade the electricity dispatch system in the
 country, which in turn was to support the reliable, secure and economic operation of the
 electricity sector, and facilitate financial settlements in a future wholesale electricity
 market. There were three main subcomponents:

 Subcomponent 1
 This subcomponent included installation of hardware and software to enable real time
 acquisition of operational information from generating stations and HV transmission
 system substations, analysis and monitoring of the network status at the National
 Dispatch Center, and control and dispatch of the generating plants and the HV
 transmission system.

     Activities Planned at                 Actual Activities                              Outputs
           Appraisal7
- Installation of Supervisory     - National Dispatch Center was          Dispatchers have all operational data
  Control        and       Data     properly upgraded and equipped        needed in order:
  Acquisition         (SCADA)       with new computer equipment,          - To monitor and control the load
  system and the Energy             proper servers, panels, recorders,      flows on transmission lines in real
  Management System (EMS)           printers, workstations, UPS and         time mode;
  at the National Dispatch          etc;                                  - To estimate the power system state
  Center (NDC);                   - New Backup Control Center               and make flexible solutions for
 - Construction of Backup           (BCC) was constructed and also          localization of faults in transmission
  Control Center (BCC) in           equipped with all necessary             network, if any;
  Baku;                             computer equipment, wall video-       - To plan outages of the substations
 - Installation of Remote           display, instruments;                   and lines;
  Terminal Units (RTUs) at        - Equipment for forty seven (47)        - To refer to archive for analyzing of
  the generating plants and         most important power system             all events in the power system, and
  HV substations.                   sites    (power      plants,    HV      etc.
                                    substations) was purchased and
                                    installed,    including     Remote    Calculating Team of Dispatch
                                    Terminal        Units        (RTU),   Department has possibility:
                                    transducers and others;               - To calculate forecast loads at
                                  - Adaptation        works        were     substations and transmission lines;
                                    implemented at each project site      - To develop different models of the
                                    in order to make existing               power system depend on various
                                    equipment at all sites compatible       configurations;
                                    with     the    new      equipment    - To estimate the dynamic and static
                                    purchased as a part of the Project.     stability of the power system, and
                                                                            etc.

 Subcomponent 2
 This subcomponent included installation of communications equipment to meet the
 requirements of dispatch, metering and HV network operations and maintenance.




 7
     As specified in the Project Appraisal Document

                                                      19
      Activities Planned at                    Actual Activities                          Outputs
            Appraisal
  - Installation of the                - About 850 km of Fiber Optic         Private Communication System
    necessary communications             Communication Lines were            became more reliable, faster, more
    equipment (fiber optic               installed to connect NDC and        secure and manageable
    cable systems, power line            BCC with node substations and
    carrier systems (PLC),               power plants;
    telephone systems)                 - Power Line Carrier Systems
   - Providing        broadband          were purchased and installed
    communications facilities            including two digital systems;
    between major Azerenerji           - For NDC, BCC and all project
    offices and generating               sites modern private digital
    plants                               telephone system was purchased
                                         and installed;
                                       - New communication network
                                         management system (NMS)
                                         purchased and installed

 Subcomponent 3
 This subcomponent included adaptation of generating plant and substation control and
 metering circuits and equipment to provide alarm, status, and metering inputs to the
 Remote Terminal Units (RTUs) and accept control outputs from the RTUs; and
 installation of fuel meters on each major thermal generating unit.

Activities Planned at Appraisal                 Actual Activities                           Outputs
- Design       and     installation    - Adaptation       works       were   - AGC System allows remote
  modifications to the station           implemented at each project site      controlling of generation at the
  control        circuits      and       in order to make existing             power plants involved in the
  equipment;                             equipment at all sites compatible     System depend on specific
- Installation of remote access          with     the   new      equipment     situation in the power system e.g.
  facilities to existing and new         purchased as a part of the            on the frequency level;
  energy       meters     at     all     Project;                            - CMS provides monitoring of load
  interconnecting points to the        - Automatic Generation Control          flows on all border points with the
  bulk power transmission grid           (AGC), purchased as a part of         electricity consumers in real time
  from the generating plants             SCADA System, includes now            mode and taking measures depend
                                         one power plant only;                 on specific situation.
                                       - The Central Metering System
                                         (CMS) purchased and installed in
                                         the scope of the Project includes
                                         150 modern intellectual meters of
                                         ION type properly configured
                                         and equipped with proper
                                         servers, other equipment and
                                         software

 Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation
 Component B included priority investments in rehabilitation of high voltage transmission
 lines and selected high-voltage substations.

 As planned during preparation and appraisal, flexibility was included in the Project to
 cover the changing system environment. In May-June 2005, a planned detailed
 assessment of Azerenerji's substations, related to SCADA/EMS system, was carried out.

                                                          20
         During the assessment it was identified that replacement of measuring transformers at
         some additional substations would be needed, because accuracy rate of them was not in
         accordance with the Standard requirements. It was also found that purchasing of
         additional 330-35 kV Circuit Breakers and Disconnecting Switches would be required to
         guarantee more successful rehabilitation of substations included in the subproject list
         under Component B. As a result, after the Loan Agreement was signed, Azerenerji
         requested to change the substations to be rehabilitated.

         Moreover, in autumn of 2005 Azerenerji received the information that Japan Government
         decided to allocate a grant for financing of rehabilitation of one of the substations
         included under Component B (Mushfiq 220 kV Substation); this grant had been discussed
         since 2003. The sum of the grant was rather more than it was foreseen in the framework
         of the Project. Therefore Azerenerji proposed to exclude the rehabilitation of Mushfiq
         220 kV Substation from the subproject list for Component B and add the newly identified
         investments. The Bank provided its’ No Objection. As agreed with the Bank, substation
         equipment was purchased from two suppliers

       Activities Planned at Appraisal                      Actual Activities                              Outputs
- Mushvig 220 kV substation: Purchase        - Imishli 330 kV substation: Purchase and       - Obsolete HV circuit-breakers,
  and replace two 200 MVA transformers         replace two 200 MVA 330/110 kV                 insulators,               current
  with two 250 MVA transformers;               autotransformers with two ones each of 240     transformers and others were
- Imishli 330 kV substation: Purchase and      MVA       capacity,    110    kV   Current     replaced with new ones at
  replace two 125 MVA transformers with        Transformers, DC battery, 10 kV                most critical substations; this
  two 200 MVA transformers;                    Switchgear bays, add one 40 MVA 110 kV         brought       improvement      in
- Ganja 330 kV substation: Purchase and        transformer; then it was decided to install    reliability     and    functional
  add one 125 MVA transformer;                 this transformer at Agdjabedi 110 kV           capability of those substations;
- Gala 110 kV substation: Purchase and         substation because of unexpected load         -Main transformers at Imishli,
  replace two 40 MVA transformers with         increasing;                                    Gala         and       Agdjabedi
  two 63 MVA transformers;                   - Gala 110 kV substation: Purchase and           Substations were replaced with
- 2nd Apsheron 500 kV line: Stabilize          replace two 40 MVA 110 kV transformers         new ones having more
  transmission line towers;                    with two 63 MVA transformers, 110 kV           capacities. A 330/110 kV
- 1st Apsheron 330 kV line: Stabilize          CTs, 6 kV Switchgear bays;                     transformer withdrawn from
  transmission line towers;                  - Gandja 330 kV substation: Purchase and         Imishli       Substation     was
- 4th Ali-Bayramli 330 kV line: Stabilize      replace 110 kV Circuit Breakers,               installed at Gandja Substation.
  transmission line towers;                    Disconnecting Switches                         All these measures brought
- 1st Ali-Bayramli 220 kV line: Replace      - Yashma 330 kV substation: Purchase and         improvement          in      grid
  conductors and insulators and reinforce      replace 330 kV Circuit Breakers,               reliability.
  towers;                                      Disconnecting Switches, 110 kV Current
- Sangchal 220 kV line: Replace                Transformers,       220     kV     Voltage
  conductors and insulators and reinforce      Transformers;
  towers;                                    - Sumgait CHPP-2 (S/S): Purchase and
- 3rd Apsheron 220 kV line: Replace            replace 110 kV Current Transformers;
  conductors;                                - Sabirabad 110 kV substation: Purchase
- 4th Apsheron 220 kV line: Replace            and replace 110 kV Current Transformers;
  conductors;                                - Janub 110 kV substation: Purchase and
- 1st Mingechevir 220 kV line: Replace         replace 110 kV Current Transformers;
  insulators and reinforce towers;           - 110 kVSubstation #135: Purchase and
- 2nd Mingechevir 220 kV line: Replace         replace 110 kV Current Transformers;
  insulators and reinforce towers;           - Sumgait 110 kV substation: Purchase and
- 2nd Ali-Beyramli 220 kV line: Replace        replace 110 kV Current Transformers
  conductors and insulators;                 - Agdjabedi 110kV substation: Purchase
- Agsu 220 kV line: Replace insulators and     and replace 110 kV Current Transformers,

                                                           21
       Activities Planned at Appraisal                          Actual Activities                             Outputs
  reinforce towers;                              and installation of 40 MVA Transformer
- 1st Barda 110 kV line: Replace                 initially intended for Imishli substation
  conductors, insulators and towers;
- Yashma 330 kV substation: Purchase
  and add three 330 kV GIC circuit
  breakers;
- Alat 110 kV substation: Purchase and
  replace the station control battery;
- 1st Alat 110 kV line: Replace
  conductors, insulators and towers;
- 1st Kurdemir 110 kV line: Replace
  conductors, insulators and towers;
- Kurdemir 110 kV substation: Replace
  one 15 MVA transformer with one 25
  MVA transformer;
- Yevlakh 110 kV substation: Replace 10
  kV switchgear.

         Component C: Management Assistance
         Component C included technical assistance (TA) to improve the management systems of
         Azerenerji and prepare the company for a future restructured energy sector.

              Activities Planned at                 Actual Activities                              Outputs
                    Appraisal
       - Support to Azerenerji’s          The most important technical              The       following   studies    were
         transition to International      assistance for improving of the           completed:
         Financial reporting Standards    management systems was actually           - related development of an integrated
         (IFRS);                          provided      per     the    following    management information system;
       - Assistance with Integrated       directions:                               -      transmission network stability
         Management         Information   - Project Management;                     study;
         System (IMIS);                   - Transmission Network Study;             - company and project audits.
       - Asset revaluation;               - Project Finance Management;
       - Development of the revised       - Project Procurement;                    Azerenerji received very highly
         Grid Code;                       - Assets Evaluation;                      qualified assistance on:
       - Transmission costing study;      - Project and Company Audits;             - Projects management practice,
       - Transmission network study;      - Assistance in the company's             - Project procurement practice;
       - Company and project audits;        transition to International Financial   - Adoption of modern approaches
       - Assistance with Dispatch           Reporting Standards (IFRS);                for modeling and planning of the
         system procurement;              - Related development of an                  power system development;
       - Project Management and             integrated              management      - Finance management practice.
       Technical Support:                   information system;
           a. Project management;         - Dispatch system training.
           b. Procurement assistance;
           c. Technical Specialist
              assistance;
           d.             Environmental
              management;
       - Dispatch Training

         Component D: Project Implementation
         Component D financed Incremental Operating Costs for the Project Implementation Unit
         (PIU).

                                                               22
     Activities Planned at                Actual Activities                            Outputs
           Appraisal
- Financing of incremental       In order to arrange the PIU was      Azerenerji’s PIU members were in
  office furnishings and         created. PIU contained the persons   daily contact with the contractors
  equipment;                     having      proper  specialty  and   involved to Power Transmission
- Financing of incremental       qualification. There are the best    Project implementation; reviewed and
  office operating expenses;     specialists on:                      commented          on      all      project
- Financing of accounting        - Transmission System;               documentation (configurations of
  and office software;           - Generation System;                 equipment to be supplied and installed,
- Interpretation           and   - Telemetry and Measurement          connection schemes, drawings and
  translations;                    Systems;                           etc.), participated in factory tests of the
- Overseas travel expenses       - Communication System;              equipment to be supplied and on site
  for PIU team members for       - Relay Protection System;           tests of the equipment delivered. They
  project-related meetings,      - Environment; and etc.              also monitored Project progress.
  training, and to witness in-   The PIU was entirely financed by     Weekly meetings were held in order to
  plant tests.                   Azerenerji.                          solve problems, to correct schedules,
                                                                      etc.




                                                      23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A cost-benefit analysis was carried out using the same assumptions as at Project appraisal
except where the data were available in a different form. Table A3.1 below summarizes
Project rates of return; sections below explain the calculations by component.

                     Table A3.1 Summary of Project Rates of Return
                                           NPV                     NPV
                                  EIRR                 FIRR
                                          US$ mln                 US$ mln
               SCADA/ EMS         22.1%    39.5        11.7%        4.0
                Transmission
                                  41%       43.8       32%          26.7
               System Rehab
                   Transmission
                                   69%      33.6        56%         22.0
                Line Component
                    Transformer
                    replacement    21%      10.3        16%          4.7
                     Component
               Total Project      28%       80.0       19%          30.3

   1. Component A: Power System Management (SACADA/EMS System)

Capital cost: The overall capital cost of the SCADA/EMS system was US$35.7 million.
The system is expected to deliver full benefits by the end of 2012. Expenditures began in
the first quarter of 2008.

Benefits: The installation of a modern SCADA/EMS system will fundamentally improve
the operational work of Azerenerji in almost all its aspects. In some instances, the degree
of improvement is difficult to quantify or to value (for example, the effects of better
maintenance scheduling, extension of asset life and improved billing resulting in lower
commercial losses). Other benefits, however, can more readily be quantified and valued.
Specifically, the types of benefits considered in the IRR analysis were as follows:
    1) improvements in power plant scheduling resulting in lower overall fuel costs;
    2) lower transmission losses;
    3) lower operational costs in administration, data logging and reporting; and
    4) deferred expenditure on new generation.

   1) Improved Scheduling: The Azerenerji system is relatively complex for its demand
      load. It used to be controlled by a central dispatch center in Baku that was of
      obsolete design and suffered from poor maintenance and lack of spare parts. As a
      consequence, station dispatch operated at below optimal levels which resulted in
      losses due to lower overall system efficiency. With the SCADA and
      communications system, scheduling of thermal plants will be improved so as to
      make better use of those with higher efficiency. At the margin, the variable costs
      saved as a result of improved scheduling of generating plants are primarily fuel,
      either in the form of fuel saved or in the form of scheduling lower-cost plants at
      higher loads. The average cost of fuel per kWh was US$0.0217/kWh in 2005 and
      rose to US$0.0326/kWh in 2006. Since then, the price Azerenerji has been paying
      for gas is subsidized: since 2009 it pays about US$0.015/kWh, about 1/2 of full

                                            24
   economic price. Using these estimates, the projected financial fuel bill for
   Azerenerji in 2012 would be US$291 million (based on average fuel costs per
   kWh). The economic cost would be approximately 100 percent higher (US$579
   million).

   SCADA/EMS system is expected to become fully operational in 2012. Given
   current data limitations, it is impossible to forecast with any accuracy the
   improvements that can be achieved by a modern SCADA/EMS system installed
   on the current Azerenerji network. A conservative estimate based upon
   international experience is that overall fuel use will be reduced by 1.5%. The
   resultant savings associated with the installation of the SCADA system in 2013
   (the first year of full operation of the system) is estimated at US$4.3 million for
   the financial analysis, and US$8.9 million for the economic analysis. These
   savings would increase on an annual basis in proportion to demand growth
   (conservatively about 5% per year, as regional trade grows).

2) Lower Transmission Losses: The electricity system in Azerbaijan was reported to
   have technical losses in 2005 of 3.45%. In 2006-2008, reported transmission
   losses were increasing, because other (old) transmission lines were added to
   Azerenerji system. The transmission system reported to have technical losses of
   about 4.05% in 2008. Since 2008, transmission losses have been reduced to 3.6%
   in 2011. The introduction of SCADA will allow more efficient use of the national
   transmission system and, consequently, lower overall transmission losses. As with
   improvements in scheduling, such improvement is difficult to quantify although
   experience with other systems suggests that it will occur. An improvement of
   0.5% was assumed for this analysis; that is transmission losses were assumed to
   decline from the current 3.6% to 3.1% after 2012 (assuming that the transmission
   system operated by Azerenerji stays unchanged). The resultant benefits were
   measured as the value of avoided fuel consumption expressed in both financial
   and economic terms. In 2013, the financial benefits to Azerenerji are projected at
   $1.4 million while the economic benefits are projected to be $3 million.

3) Lower Operating Costs: Logging and transmitting data presently consumes a
   significant amount of resources within the Azerenerji organization. During
   appraisal, the company prepared an estimate of the operational savings likely to
   arise as a result of SCADA installation, which totaled US$315,400 annually. This
   estimate remains valid. The areas of savings included accounting and financial
   reporting, preparation of techno-economic data, computerized preparation of
   financial data, human resources management, computerization of O&M data,
   reduction in communications expenses, and investment planning. At the same
   time, there will be additional O&M costs for the new SCADA/ EMS system.
   Based on international experience with such systems, the incremental O&M costs
   are estimated at 1.5% of the capital cost per annum - approximately US$500,000.

4) Deferred Generation Expenditure: Reduction in transmission losses and
   improvements in generation scheduling including power import will enable the

                                       25
       current generating system to operate for a longer period without additional
       capacity. The benefit would be equivalent to the capital cost savings of such
       deferral measured in equivalent interest charges (financial and economic). Given
       the relatively small value of the benefit, as well as the uncertainty with respect to
       its timing (a number of other factors, including tariff increases, end-user
       efficiency improvements, and access to less-costly fuels for heating and cooling
       could substantially defer the need for new generation capacity), it was decided to
       omit this from the IRR calculations.

Overall Rate of Return to SCADA/EMS System: The quantifiable costs and benefits of the
SCADA/ EMS system over a 20-year period are shown in financial and economic terms
in Tables A3.2 and A3.3 below. Because full benefits of SCADA/ EMS are expected by
the end of 2012, 75% of the expected full benefits were assumed to accrue in 2012.

Financial internal rate of return (FIRR): The benefits of improved scheduling and lower
transmission losses are calculated as a percentage of forecast average fuel cost. The FIRR
of the SCADA/ EMS system over a period of 20 years is estimated to be 11.7%. The
NPV of at 10% is $4 million.

Economic internal rate-of-return (EIRR): The estimate of the economic rate of return
(EIRR) of the Project is estimated assuming that the gas subsidy to Azereneji is
eliminated. Under the above assumptions, the EIRR of the project is 22.1%, and the NPV
at 10% discount rate is $39.5 million.




                                            26
                             Table A3.2: Financial Cash Flow: SACAD/ EMS System

                                              2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016     2021     2026
Total Transmission (GWh)                      21,256   22,519   20,109   19,869   17,436   17,278   18,583   19,305   19,889   20,736   21,918   23,014   29,372   38,204
Fuel Cost//kWh(average) – US$/kWh              0.02     0.03     0.02     0.02     0.02     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01     0.01
Forecast fuel cost (USD million)               465      769      366      355      278      241      278      291      296      305      318      320      409      531
COSTS
Investment costs (IBRD portion, US$ mln)                                  8.30     8.90     9.75     1.50     2.70
Investment costs (Local portion, US$, mln)                                                  0.90     3.70
Additional O&M costs                                                                                                   0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
BENEFITS
a. Reduced operating costs
Saving in Operating Costs (USD million)                                                                       0.24     0.32     0.32     0.32     0.32     0.32     0.32
b. Improved transmission losses
Transmission losses (%)                       3.45%    3.59%    3.63%    4.05%    3.90%    3.70%    3.6%     3.6%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*
           Improved transmission efficiency            -0.1%    0.0%     -0.4%    0.2%     0.2%     0.1%     0.0%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%
Loss Reduction Fuel cost savings (GWh)                  -32       -8      -83       26       35      19        0        99      104      110      115      147      191
Fuel cost savings (US$ mln)                              -1        0       -1        0        1       0        0        1        1        2        2        2        3
c. Higher dispatch efficiency
Overall system efficiency gain      1.50%
Overall system efficiency gain (GWh)                                                                          193      298      311      329      345      441      573
Fuel cost savings (US$ mln)                                                                                    3        4        4        5        5        6        8
Net Cash Flow                                          -1.03    -0.14    -9.74    -8.49    -10.14   -4.92     0.39     5.58     5.71     5.92     6.22     7.99    10.45
IRR                                           11.7%
NPV@ 10%                                       4.00

         Notes:
           75% of annual benefits assumed for 2012
           Decrease in electricity demand after 2007 was due to tariff increase in 2007
         *
           This assumes that the transmission system operated by Azerenerji stays unchanged after 2011


                                                                                    27
                                                     Table A3.3: Economic Cash Flow: SACAD/ EMS System

                                            2005     2006     2007     2008     2009     2010     2011     2012     2013     2014     2015     2016     2021     2026
Total Transmission (GWh)                    21,256   22,519   20,109   19,869   17,436   17,278   18,583   19,305   19,889   20,736   21,918   23,014   29,372   38,204
Fuel Cost//kWh(average) – US$/kWh            0.02     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03     0.03
Forecast fuel cost (US$ mln)                 465      769      714      686      545      514      557      579      596      621      657      690      880     1,145
COSTS
Investment costs (IBRD portion, US$ mln)                                8.30     8.90     9.75     1.50     2.70
Investment costs (Local portion, US$ mln)                                                 0.90     3.70
Additional O&M costs                                                                                                0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500    0.500
BENEFITS
a. Reduced operating costs
Saving in Operating Costs (US$ mln)                                                                         0.24     0.32     0.32     0.32     0.32     0.32     0.32
b. Improved transmission losses
Transmission losses (%)                     3.45%    3.59%    3.63%    4.05%    3.90%    3.70%    3.6%     3.6%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*    3.1%*
   Improved transmission efficiency                  -0.1%     0.0%    -0.4%    0.2%     0.2%     0.1%     0.0%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%     0.5%
Loss Reduction Fuel cost savings (GWh)                -32       -8      -83       26       35      19        0        99      104      110      115      147      191
Fuel cost savings (US$ mln)                            -1        0       -1        0        1       0        0        3        3        3        3        4        6
c. Higher dispatch efficiency
Overall system efficiency gain      1.50%
Overall system efficiency gain (GWh)                                                                        193      298      311      329      345      441      573
Fuel cost savings (US$ mln)                                                                                  6        9        9        10       10       13       17
Net Cash Flow                                        -1.03    -0.29    -11.18   -8.08    -9.63    -4.64     3.33    11.74    12.25    12.96    13.61    17.42    22.72
IRR                                         22.1%
NPV@ 10%                                     39.5

           Notes:
             75% of annual benefits assumed for 2012
             Decrease in electricity demand after 2007 was due to tariff increase in 2007
           *
             This assumes that the transmission system operated by Azerenerji stays unchanged after 2011




                                                                                28
   2. Component B: Transmission Network Rehabilitation

Under the Project, a number of relatively small subprojects were implemented to improve
the reliability of transmission lines and substations, all of which were considered high
priority during Project appraisal. The total cost of these subprojects was US$14.7 million.

Rehabilitation of Transmission Lines: Improvements to the existing high-voltage
transmission system can be justified in two ways:
     the lines have reached capacity, and capacity increase will result in increased
       power supply as demand grows;
     faults on the line can be reduced leading to improved outage times.

The first of these does not apply to any of the implemented subprojects. Data supplied on
peak currents in these lines during appraisal confirmed that none approached design
maximum. In addition, it can be noted that the kind of improvement achieved, e.g.
replacement of towers, is not such as to increase capacity.

The benefits of the implemented subprojects accrue primarily from reduction in outage
times as a result of recurring faults in the equipment; power which is not lost during
outages could be sold to final customers, including exports. It is known that the
rehabilitated lines had faults resulting in outages in 2002-2005. Table A3.4 shows data on
outages in 2003, as evaluated during appraisal, and demonstrates that outages on the
project lines were frequent and of considerable duration.

           Table A3.4: Transmission Line Performance: Outages and Duration
                                              Number of
                                              outages in   Total Outage
                                                2003        Duration
                                                  #            (Hrs)
                   2nd Apsheron 500 kV            12            47
                    st
                   1 Apsheron 330 kV              16           138
                   st
                   l Ali-Bayramli 220 kV          15            83
                   Sangachal220 kV                13            71
                   3rd Apsheron 220 kV            9            45.5
                    th
                   4 Apsheron 220 kV              8            45.5
                   1st Mingachevir 220 kV         17          131.5
                   2nd Mingachevir 220 kV         10            93
                    nd
                   2 Ali-Bayramli 220 kV          6             60
                   Agsu 220 kV                    8             54
                   4th Ali-Bayramli 330 kV        6             32
                   st
                   l Barda 110 kV                 5            624




                                             29
 At appraisal, the available data did not specify (i) whether the outages resulted in load-
 shedding equal to the power that would have been transmitted by the line; (ii) what this
 power level was; or (iii) how many of the faults occurred in equipment that would be
 replaced/ rehabilitated. However, inspection of the dates of outages suggested that they
 occurred throughout the year and at various times of day. It was assumed, therefore, that
 the outages occurred on average when the lines were carrying base load power, that it is
 62% of the peak current carried and that 50% of this power was actually lost to
 consumers, that is that 50% was transmitted via an alternate route. If outages occurred
 during higher load periods then losses would be greater. The resultant estimates of total
 GWh lost, calculated during appraisal, are shown in Table A3.5. The Table also shows
 how performance of the rehabilitated lines was improved by the end of 2011.

                         Table A3.5: Estimates of Outages and Loss of Power
                                      At appraisal (2003 data)                            Actual (2011)

                                         Base                                             Base
                                                     Total       Power       Peak                   Total   Power
                             Peak        Load                                             Load
                                                    Outage        Lost      Current                Outage    Lost
                            Current     Current                                          Current
                              (A)         (B)        (Hrs)       (GWh)        (A)          (B)      (Hrs)   (GWh)

2nd Apsheron 500 kV           925        573.5        47         10.492       910          564       12      2.634

1st Apsheron 330 kV           700         434         138        15.387       670          415       25      2.668
lst Ali-Bayramli 220
                                          589         83         8.373        650          403       17      1.176
kV                            950
Sangachal220 kV               800         496         71         6.031        650          403        0      0.000

3rd Apsheron 220 kV           600         372        45.5        2.899        600          372       13      0.830

4th Apsheron 220 kV           600         372        45.5        2.899        600          372        3      0.214
1st Mingachevir 220
                                          341       131.5        7.680        400          248        4      0.170
kV                            550
2nd Mingachevir 220
                                          372         93         5.925        400          248       49      2.085
kV                            600
2nd Ali-Bayramli 220
                                          496         60         5.097        650          403       21      1.452
kV                            800
Agsu 220 kV                   550         341         54         3.154        400          248        0      0.000
4th Ali-Bayramli 330
                                          589         32         4.842        800          496       14      1.787
kV                            950
                                                                            The transmission line was dismantled in
                                          155         624        8.283
lst Barda 110 kV              250                                                            2008
Total                                               1424.5        81.1                              158      13.0
Base load current = 62% of peak current
Power lost = 50% of base current multiplied by voltage times 1.73 times power factor assumed at
0.9 times duration of outages

 As it is seen from the Table A3.5, after lines were rehabilitated, losses from outages were
 reduced by over 80%. Table A3.6 shows the FIRR and EIRR (over 20 years) of the
 transmission lines rehabilitation subcomponent. For FIRR, it is assumed that the power
 saved is valued at current domestic tariffs (US$0.075/kWh); for EIRR, the saved power is
 valued at regional prices (Turkish retail price of US$0.11/kWh) since reduced electricity

                                                            30
exports are the opportunity cost of lost power (since 2007, Azerbaijan is a net electricity
exporter).

     Table A3.6: Financial and Economic Returns on Transmission Line Component
                            Financial                            Economic
                                        FIRR                                 EIRR
                  Cost,      Annual                   NPV@10%,    Annual              NPV@10%,
                                         (20                                  (20
                 US$ mln    Benefits,                  US$ mln   Benefits,             US$ mln
                                        years)                               years)
                            US$ mln                              US$ mln
 Transmission
                    3.8        5.1       56%            22.0        7.5       69%         33.6
Line Component

Transformer Replacement: Five transformer replacement subprojects were completed
under this component at the following substations: Imishli 330 kV (two transformers),
Agdjabedi 110 kV (one transformer) and Gala 110 kV (two ones), whose transformers
were at or close to capacity shortage (Imishli 330 kV, Agdjabedi 110 kV and Gala 110
kV).

The sub-station transformers effectively act as a bottleneck through which power supply
to consumption districts must pass. When the transformers reach capacity, downstream
supply is necessarily restricted at first to a limited number of consumers at peak load
times, then increasingly to larger number of consumers for longer times. When the
capacity of the transformer is only about 62% of peak demand, which is the national base
load level, there will effectively be a state of permanent load-shedding downstream of the
substation which will gradually increase as potential demand increases.

The result of this is that until capacity is reached, the benefits of increased transformer
capacity are small, amounting to no more than improved efficiency in the transformer
itself. However, once capacity is reached and incremental load must be shed, benefits will
accrue which will increase annually as load increases. A precise calculation of the rate of
return for each of the proposed projects requires data on the load-demand curve for the
district served by the particular sub-station and also a demand forecast for that district. In
the absence of these, the national load-demand curve was assumed to apply as well as the
national base-case demand forecast. Examination of this national load demand curve
suggested that there is a reasonable approximation to a linear change in load between the
base load level (62% o f peak demand) and the peak load. The demand forecast of 5% per
annum growth rate after 2012 means that full load-shedding of incremental demand (the
point at which base loads on the transformers are equivalent to the present-day peak
loads) would not have been reached in the absence of new transformer capacity for about
20 years.

In order to make estimate of the economic rate-of-return of each proposed project, the
following assumptions were made (similar to the assumption at appraisal):
     Gala, Agdjabedi and Imishli (one transformer) were installed in 2010 and Imishli
       (second transformer) was installed in 2011;
     demand increases at 5% per annum;
     before 2015, load shedding because of insufficient capacity is zero, with existing
       transformers on full capacity;

                                                 31
      after 2015, 5% of this incremental load will be shed, increasing thereafter by 1%
       each year;
      for FIRR, the saved power is valued at domestic tariffs; for EIRR, the saved
       power is valued at regional electricity prices;
      a ten-year evaluation period is used; .

Table A3.7 shows the results of this evaluation for transformer replacement component.

 Table A3.7: Financial and Economic Returns on Transformer Replacement Component
                           Average                               Average
                           Financial   FIRR                     Economic    EIRR
                  Cost,                              NPV@10%,                        NPV@10%,
                            Annual      (10                      Annual      (10
                 US$ mln                              US$ mln                         US$ mln
                           Benefits,   years)                   Benefits,   years)
                           US$ mln                              US$ mln
 Transformer
 Replacement       10.0       7.5       16%            4.7        11.0       21%         10.3
 Component


   3. Financial Viability of Azerenerji

The secondary objective of the project is to contribute to strengthening Azerenerji’s
financial position. Two specific outcome indicators were set under this object: 1) tariffs
reach cost recovery by 2010 and 2) 100 percent on-time payment from wholesale
distributors by 2010.

Accomplishments to date
Azerenerji’s financial position has improved since the project inception primarily due to
progresses made in the following areas:

   i) Tariffs reach cost recovery. The weighted average retail tariff increased from
      AZN 0.02 to AZN 0.06 per kWh (US$0.075 c/kWh) in January 2007. Before
      then, Azerenerji had suffered large operating losses year on year. The
      Government had to provide subsidies to cover the costs of fuel and electricity
      import.

   ii) Improved collections. Collections have improved across all customer segments.
       Household segment has seen the greatest improvement with collection rate up
       from 37 percent in 2006 to 85 percent in the first three quarters of 2011 largely
       due to the installation of 300,000 smart meters and the adoption of a pre-payment
       regime among metered customers. Planned addition of smart and prepay meters
       in households should lead to a further increase in the receivable collection rates.
       Wholesale achieved full collections in 2010 from merely 50 percent in 2004.
       However, wholesale arrear and impairment have been rising overtime due to
       systematic underpayment from the state-owned wholesale customer.

   iii) Efficiency improvements. Azerenerji has made (a) gradual removal of high cost
        fuel oil from the fuel mix (Figure A3.1); (b) better fuel efficiency in generation in

                                                32
       part due to the rehabilitation of older plants; and (c) lower transmission loss from
       4.05 percent in 2008 to 3.6 percent in 2011. Transmission loss will be further
       reduced once the SCADA system is in operation.
                          Figure A3.1.                        Figure A3.2.
              Fuel mix (2000- 9M 2011)       Fuel consumption in conditional units (gr/kWh)




On May 3, 2012, Fitch Ratings assigned Azerbaijan's OJSC Azerenerji a Long-term
foreign currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) of 'BBB-' and Short-term foreign currency
IDR of 'F3'. The Outlook on the Long-term IDR is Positive. The rating and outlook are
aligned with the Republic of Azerbaijan ('BBB-'/Positive/'F3') reflecting strong legal,
strategic and operational ties with the government of Azerbaijan. Positive characteristics
recognized by the Rating Agency during the rating process include: i) the company’s
modern, primarily gas fired, generation fleet, ii) improvements in the household
receivable collection rates, and iii) favorable prospects for energy consumption in
Azerbaijan and certain markets in the region (such as Turkey and southern Russia).

Remaining issues and challenges

1) Liquidity challenges remain and likely worsen in the near future i) tariffs are still
   under cost recovery once collection is taken into consideration; ii) systematic
   underpayments and receivable impairments from the large state-own wholesale
   customer, iii) increasing debt service obligations to finance an ambitious investment
   program.

       a) Tariff inadequate to recover costs once collections are taken into
          consideration. At current tariff level, revenue collection is expected to be
          inadequate to recover costs of supply in the foreseeable future. In 2010,
          revenue after collection was about 6 percent below costs of supply. The issue
          is more serious if systematic wholesale underpayment of “collected” revenue
          is taken into account.

       b) Systematic underpayment and impairment of receivables from the largest
          wholesale customer. Upon analyzing the debt servicing history of Azerenerji’s
          major counterparties, the auditor (Deloitte) noted in its letter to the
          management of Azerenerji that BakiElektrikShebeke OJSC, Azerenerji’s
          largest wholesale customer, had been systematically underpaying on average
          18 percent of its monthly bills. As a result, the amount due from
          BakiElektrikShebeke OJSC has been ever increasing; so has the allowance for

                                           33
             impairment of receivables. In 2009-10, BakiElektrikShebeke OJSC
             constituted 46% and 39% Azerenerji’s revenue. As of December 31, 201 1, the
             total receivables from BakiElektrikShebeke OJSC amounted to AZN 287
             million, among which AZN 287 million, 98 percent of the total, was classified
             as impaired.

        c) Rising debt service obligations. Azerenerji is the process of embarking on a
           large investment program on grid modernization with an estimated cost of 3.1
           billion Euros. Its internal cash generation is far from being sufficient to meet
           the investment needs. With additional sources of funding yet to be identified,
           the company’s liquidity position is bound to worsen if it were to proceed with
           the investments.8

2) Declining operating margin in recent years. Azerenerji’s operating margin declined
   considerably from 45% in 2008, to 23% in 2009, and to merely 2% in 2010 (see
   Table A3.8).

                             Table A3.8: Azerenerji’s Operating Margin
                                                      2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
           Revenue (million AZN)                       756 732 645 611 672
           Operating income (million AZN)              251 333 147     14   76
           Operating margin (%)                       33% 45% 23%     2% 11%

    Two factors have contributed to this sharp decline: (a) lower capacity utilization due
    to capacity expansion coupled with sluggish domestic demand (see figure below), and
    (b) higher SG&A resulted from large impairment losses. Azerenerji’s installed
    capacity has grown more than 20 percent with about 1,100 MW capacity installed
    since 2008. Meanwhile, domestic demand has experienced a sharp decline due to (a)
    macroeconomic conditions; and (b) lower consumptions due to demand elasticity and
    higher collections. Moreover, the impairment loss amounted to AZN 60 million in
    2010, accounting for more than 10 percent of electricity revenue that year. The
    operating margin rebound in 2011 was in part due to lower impairment losses (AZN
    19 million) compared with 2010 (AZN 60 million).




8
  Fitch’s statement upon assigning a 'BBB-'/Positive/'F3' rating on Azerenerji’s foreign currency bond
stated “a large part of the investment was viewed deferrable (around 60%) or ha s funding already arranged
(30%) with the remaining part expected to have confirmed government funding in place before YE12.”

                                                   34
                  Figure A3.3: Azerenerji’s Capacity and Electricity Sales




3) Lack of financial autonomy and other institutional challenges:
      a) Fully regulated electricity and natural gas tariffs. The Presidential Decree
          #341 and the Cabinet of Ministers’ Decision #247 stipulate that the Tariff
          Council of Azerbaijan Republic is the country’s sole tariff setting and
          regulating entity. Electricity and gas adjustments are usually concurrent albeit
          at different pace.     The government also regulates state employees’ wage
          inflation. As a result, about 97 percent Azerenerji’s revenue and 30 percent of
          its costs are directly controlled by the state whose considerations are highly
          influenced by social and political factors.

       b) Under the regulated framework, tariff adjustments have been very infrequent.
          The last tariff adjustment was in 2007; and the prior adjustment to that was in
          the 1990’s. Azerenerji’s current financial projections for BAU conditions
          assume no tariff increase until 2015 by which time tariff rates would have
          remained flat for almost a decade. With the domestic inflation rate as high as
          8.3 percent, zero tariff increase in nominal terms over a period of a decade is
          equivalent to more than 50 percent decrease in real terms. Moreover, as
          Azerenerji’s cost structure evolving overtime, the infrequency of tariff
          adjustments can also lead to divergence in the company’s operating margin
          even though the general tariff setting principle remains cost-plus. This may
          lead to financial stress especially after a period of capital expansion before the
          benefits of the investments set in to take their full effects.

       c) Needs for government soft subsidies remain i) highly subsidized fuel for
          generation at 55 percent discount; ii) large government equity infusion to help
          finance capital investments under liquidity constraint; and iii) government
          instituted massive write-off of accounts payables.




                                            35
 Table A3.9 Government Instituted Settlements among State-owned Entities (2010-11)
            Decree        Date               Item              Related Entity           Amount
          Decree #133   Aug. 2011   Loan to                MoF                      AZN 92 million
                                    Receivable from        BakiElektrikShebeke      AZN 83 million
                                    Receivable from        Azersu                   AZN 9 million
                                    Associated VAT to      GoA                      AZN 14 million
          Decree #148   Aug. 2010   Payable to             SOCAR                    AZN 1,554 million
                                    Receivable from        Distribution companies   AZN 1,403 million
                                    VAT recoverable from   GoA                      AZN 218 million
          Decree #88    Jun. 2011   VAT payable to         GoA                      AZN 124 million


      d) High uncertainties associated with the company’s liquidity position due to a
         lack of control over the accounts receivables/payables process. Azerenerji, its
         sole fuel supplier (SOCAR), and its largest customer (BakiElektrikShebeke
         OJSC) are all fully state-own enterprises. The government has the ultimate
         control over each company’s bottom line through i) tariff setting, ii)
         exercising control over intra-enterprise payment transfers that are also highly
         influenced by social and political factors, and iii) equity injections.

   The newly assigned ('BBB-'/Positive/'F3') rating also reflects the legal, strategic and
   operational ties between Azerenerji and the government of Azerbaijan. In a statement,
   Fitch Ratings recognized that Azerenerji’s standalone profile is significantly weaker
   than the government-supported IDRs; and the

4) Upcoming new generation capacities online coupled with sluggish domestic demand
   has led to lower operating margins and suboptimal return on investments.

      a) Tariff adjustments and improvements in collections may both have adverse
         effects on domestic demand.           Azerenerji has already seen demand
         contractions in the past years in response to the installation of 300, 000 smart
         meters.

      b) More generation capacity are coming online in the 2012-13 time frame,
         expanding supply potential by 41 percent while in the mean time, domestic
         demand is only expected to grow at a modest 4-6 percent. Depreciation is
         expected to grow at an annual rate of about 7 percent in the period of 2011-17
         adding downward pressure to the company’s operating margin if the extra
         capacity is left idle.

              TableA3:10: Maximum Generation Output and Supply Surplus
     In thousand kWh        2012   2013    2014     2015    2016     2017
     Maximum production 21,100 22,900 22,900 22,900 22,900 22,900
     Domestic demand        18,875 19,547 20,794 21,975 21,975 21,975
     Supply surplus         4,325 7,253 6,006 4,825 4,825 4,825



                                            36
                       Figure A3.4: Maximum Supply and Domestic Demand



                                                  7.8         7.8    7.8     7.8        7.8
                                       4.2
                              -




                            19.0      19.0        19.0        19.0   19.0    19.0       19.0




                            2011      2012        2013        2014   2015   2016        2017

                                       Existing           New         Domestic demand

Opportunities
1. Participation in regional power trade to help absorb excess capacity, increase
   operating revenue and maximize return on investments. Export will help substantially
   improve the company’s liquidity position, especially in the near term when domestic
   tariff is expected to remain unchanged.

2. Investments in grid modernization and billing to further improve revenue collections.
   Azerenerji is about to embark on an ambitious investment program, with an estimated
   cost of Euro 3.5 billion, to modernize its grid, add new smart meters, distribution
   lines, transformers, etc. The program together with a prepayment regime would bring
   retail collections to 100 percent.

3. Tariff roadmap. The tariff trajectory in Azerenerji’s business-as-usual (BAU)
   scenario assumes no tariff increase from 2012-14 followed by aggressive price hikes
   of 18%, 17% and 14% from 2015-17.9 This tariff trajectory has two issues 1) it adds
   to the liquidity challenge in the near term; and 2) price hikes of such magnitude for
   three consecutive years are both unrealistic and unlikely to be approved by the
   government because of their adverse social consequences. An annual tariff
   adjustment of 3-5% would help greatly improve the company’s liquidity position
   while remaining socially acceptable in an environment with 8.3% inflation (see table
   below).




9
    Tariff for domestic gas supply assumed to follow the same trajectory.

                                                         37
                      Table A3.11: Year End Cash Balance Projections (million AZN)
                        Scenario                  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017
 Base Case
  - No tariff increase (2012-14)
  - 18% (2015), 17% (2016) and 14% (2017)                      46         64   124   186   307   517
 No tariff increase (2012-17)                                  46         64   124   106    56   (1)
 3% annual increase                                            58        103   206   245   267   301
 5% annual increase                                            66        129   262   343   418   518
 Increase at the rate of inflation (8.3%)                      80        174   359   512   683   910

Covenant compliance
Azerenerji was in breach of both the current ratio covenant (> 1.2) and the DSCR
covenant (>1.5) associated with the IBRD loan in 2009-10 and again in breach with the
current ratio covenant in 2011. On April 14, 2011, the Bank granted a temporary waiver
of both ratios for FY2010; and subsequently, another temporary waiver for FY2011-12 to
facility the company’s effort in obtaining a bond rating. The financial projections for the
period 2012-1710 suggest Azerenerji is likely to continue having difficulties complying
with both covenants in the medium term (2012-15).




10
     Per Azerenerji’s request, financial projections are not included.


                                                        38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Salvador Rivera           Lead Energy Specialist             ECSS2
Yadviga Semikolenova      Energy Economist                   ECSS2
Norpulat Daniyarov        Financial Management Specialis     ECSPS
Majed El-Bayya            Lead Procurement Specialist        ECSPS
Surekha Jaddoo            Operations Analyst                 ECSSD
Josephine A. Kida         Program Assistant                  ECSSD
                                                             ECSIE-
Farid A. Mammadov         Operations Officer
                                                              HIS
Ida N. Muhoho             Sr Financial Management Specia     ECSPS
Neal Patterson            Consultant                         ECSSD
Gurcharan Singh           Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS
Karl Skansing             Consultant                         ECSPS
Nijat Valiyev             Infrastructure Specialist          ECSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                          0.00                    13.98
  FY04                                         41.71                   201.09
  FY05                                         43.98                   211.40
  FY06                                          0.00                    -0.20
  FY07                                          0.00                     0.00
  FY08                                          0.00                     0.00
                          Total:               85.69                   426.27
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                         00.00                    12.83
  FY06                                         32.30                   116.01
  FY07                                         31.78                   107.41
  FY08                                         34.89                   112.61
  FY09                                          0.00                   107.41
  FY10                                          0.00                   112.61
                          Total:               98.97                   348.86


                                          39
40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The full text of the Borrower’s completion report is attached to the Project files. Below is
the summary of the Borrower’s assessment of the outcomes and lessons learned.



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                        (P083341)




                                           ON

                                   LOAN #7294-AZ

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 48 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                            TO

                                 JSC “AZERENERJI”

                                           FOR

                      POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT



                                       May, 2012




                                            43
3. Assessment of Outcomes

   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project objectives and design remained highly relevant in the context of
Azerbaijan’s development priorities. Azerbaijan has maintained an ongoing commitment
to developing an infrastructure which meets international standards and is capable of
supporting economic growth and development. Establishment of an efficient and
reliable power transmission network and the resultant improvements in the cost and
reliability of power supply, have been key in facilitating the rapid economic growth that
has occurred over much of the course of Project implementation. Although the
Government has reduced its sovereign-guaranteed borrowings in recent years, it
continues to provide support for Azerenerji’s program of transmission system expansion
and upgrade, thereby demonstrating the importance that it assigns to these initiatives.
The PDOs therefore continue to be highly relevant to the country’s development
priorities.

The PDO and Project design also remained consistent with the objective of the current
CPS, which is to support the development priorities of the Government. These include
as one of the key pillars “investing in human capital and infrastructure” given that major
segments of infrastructure (e.g., road and power transmission networks) do not fully
meet the needs of a rapidly expanding economy. As noted above, improving the
reliability and efficiency of electricity supply was a focal point of the Project objectives.
Finally, the Project continues to be consistent with sector strategies for power sector
reform, which advocate corporatization of sector entities where privatization is not a
viable option and also the fostering of competition in the electricity industry to improve
cost effectiveness.




                                             44
3.2 Achievement of project Objectives

PDO                          Indicators and Targets            Achievement
Improve the efficiency of theImproved efficiency of fuel
power                        use per kWh of electricity
                  transmission
operation in Azerbaijan      generated through
through      technical       Economic Dispatch and
                           and
                             reduced transmission losses.
institutional strengthening of
the generation/transmission  Improved reliability and
utility.                     quality of electricity supply
                             with respect to frequency
                             and duration of forced
                             outages.
Secondary         objective: In line with legal covenants,     Since 2007 Azerenerji has
Contribute to strengthening Azerenerji's          financial    not been getting subsidy
Azerenerji's       financial position       would        be    from the Government.
position.                    strengthened (i.e. need for       The tariffs were increased
                             Govt, financial support           to cost recovery level.
                             reduced/eliminated) as a
                             consequence of (a) tariffs
                             that increase over time to
                             cover full costs, and (b)
                             increased            payment
                             collections.

3.3 Efficiency

At the time of Project appraisal, it was anticipated that the benefits of the Project would
accrue primarily from savings in operating and maintenance (O&M) costs (including
capital replacement) as a result of upgrading SS equipment and telecommunications
networks, savings in reserve capacity requirements through the establishment of a
capacity reserve pooling system, reductions in the average cost of wholesale power
through more efficient, market-based dispatch of plants, reductions in customer losses
due to outages, reduced transmission losses and savings accruing from more efficient
management of inventories and plant maintenance schedules.

The economic and financial returns of the Project show a benefits stream relative to the
costs incurred from both the national perspective (economic returns) and from the
perspective of the Borrower (financial returns). The Project can be considered fully
satisfactory in terms of efficient use of resources due to improvement of the system
dispatching and management. But considering the fact that some projects were
implemented simultaneously with the Project, it is impossible to identify its separate
effect on the system operation indicators such as fuel saving and transmission losses.




                                            45
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: satisfactory

The Project is considered to have been Satisfactory in terms of overall outcome because
all main subprojects have been completed satisfactory.
As considered above, the Project Aims remain highly relevant to the priorities of both
the Government and the Bank’s CPS. All of the Project Aims have been achieved
relative to the criteria established in the Loan Agreement. As a result of the Project, an
institutional framework established will support the financial sustainability of Azerenerji
and provide a basis for further development of Azerbaijan power system. The audits
of the Project and the Company indicate that financial management in Azerenerji is
being improved from year to year.
On this basis, satisfactory rating is justified.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspect, and Social Development
    N/A

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Long-term improvement in management practice through transfer of skills is one of the
outcomes of the Project. Some of the highlights of long-term improvements are:
     Creation of new division in Central Dispatching Department, which maintains
        SCADA/EMS. Some of the Department staff has got good technology practice at
        ALSTOM (AREVA) entities.
     Azerenerji staff adopted the newest software for modeling and analyzing of
        different modes for the power system operation, and planning of technical
        measures for improvement of it.
     Creation of new department investigating strategic goals in power system
        development and managing achievement of those goals.
     KEMA consultants provided for Azerenerji staff a good practice per project
        management.
     Financial audits are conducted based on International Financing Reporting
        Standards.
     Operation and maintenance of the power system facilities are adequately planned
        and consistently implemented.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative)
    N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
    N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


                                            46
The risk development outcome has been evaluated with respect to a number of criteria.
The findings are summarized below:

Technical risks: Manageable and moderate. Risk of delaying the Project was related to
the capacity of the Contractor and Implementing Agency.
Financial risks: Moderate. Risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates because
some contracts financed by the loan were in a currency different from the Loan
currency.
Environmental risks: Lowest.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above outlined in previous sections, the Bank performance in ensuring
quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. Objectives of the Project and components were
well defined and consistent with the country priorities. An Assessment of Quality at
Entry was carried out and stated that PAD was developed well. The Assessment noted
that the Project would be very important for the power sector in Azerbaijan.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision of the Project was carried out on a regular basis, with twice-yearly missions
staffed by qualified specialists. All aspects of Project implementation were addressed
during the missions, potential problem areas were highlighted, early warnings were
issued when implementation problems surfaced, steps to resolve issues were agreed with
the Borrower and subsequent missions followed up on the outcomes.

The Task Team reviewed the implementation of the EMP during each supervision
mission. Supervision reports and correspondence indicated that quarterly PMRs were
received and reviewed in a timely manner, as were annual audited financial reports.

Critical issues in the Project were addressed via Aide Memoires and following letters.
Basing on them action plans were timely developed. Those plans were effectively used
by the Project PIU as guideline documents to arrange further progress.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank
Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on satisfactory quality at entry and supervision mentioned above the Bank’s
performance in whole is rated satisfactory.



                                           47
 5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Regular monthly and quarterly reports on the Project progress as well as clarifications if
requested were submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Azerbaijan, Ministry of
Economic Development and Ministry of Industry and Energy. Moreover, the progress of
the Project was repeatedly discussed in the meetings taken place in the Ministries during
the period 2005-2011. The comments stated on the meetings were strictly taken into
consideration by Azerenerji and by the Project management for timely clearing.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Azerenerji complied with the covenants in the Loan Agreement on a consistent
basis, including the timely submission of quarterly PMRs. PIU staff quickly learned to
take over responsibility for procurement and project implementation scheduling. Staff
was always well prepared for missions and complied promptly and fully with requests
for supplementary information. Field trips to observe implementation progress were
efficiently organized and missions received attention of the top management.

In terms of technical implementation, there was close cooperation between the PIU and
the operations staff charged with supervising design and implementation. While
initial response to consultant input was guarded in some instances, the staff
ultimately developed a co-operative and supportive working relationship with the
outside specialists. The primary shortfall in performance related to the planning and
implementation of the Station Adaptation Works.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

Highlights of the lessons learned from the evaluation of the Project are listed
below:
     - Risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates should be hedged if a
         significant proportion of the expenditures financed by the loan are in a
         currency different from the Loan currency.
     - Client and possible internal Bank pressures for an unrealistically
         short implementation timetable for unusually complex and large operations
         should be resisted by sector management and TTLs.




                                           48
-   Procurement and implementation arrangements for technically complex project
    components should be carefully aligned with the real capacity of the Contractor
    and the implementing agency.
-   Borrower-financed components which are on the critical path for Project
    implementation (such as the cable work under the subject operation) require
    careful and timely monitoring to prevent their holding up the implementation
    of other Project components.
-   Close involvement of the implementing agency in project design, together
    with attentiveness to their views, helps to build a cooperative relationship
    between the Bank and the Borrower.
-   Continuity of Bank and Borrower personnel helps to create mutual respect
    and understanding which in turn facilitates resolution of problems that arise
    during the course of implementation.
-   Transferring slow-moving components to other projects with the same
    Borrower should be considered in order to avoid prolonging Project
    closure, particularly in instances where PDOs are similar and additional
    financing is not a viable option.
-     There is a need of professional development of dispatching staff.




                                     49
Backup Control Center (BCC) Building




Backup Control Center (BCC) Dispatcher Workstation




                                       50
BCC Equipment Room




Gala Substation 110kV Transformer




                                    51
Imishli Substation 330kV Transformer




National Dispatch Center Dispatcher Workstation




                                         52
Annex 7B. Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR

Azerenerji highly appreciates your efforts to prepare ICR as a comprehensive document.
In order to make it more precise we allowed ourselves to do some small corrections.
Please pay your attention on the following comments:

- (a) PDO Indicators (page iii): Please correct percentage of specific fuel consumption
reduced (12% instead of 11%), and dates of indicators achievement (12/31/2011 instead
of 11/07/2011);

- Comments (incl. % achievement) on Indicator 1 (page iv): Power tariff setting in
Azerbaijan is regulated in due compliance with relevant legislation, including Law of Azerbaijan
Republic on Natural Monopolies, Law of Azerbaijan Republic on Regulated Prices and Law of
Azerbaijan Republic on Electrical Power. Accordingly, Article 10 of the Law of Azerbaijan
Republic on Electrical Power Industry provides that tariffs of electric and thermal power must
fully cover enterprise’s expenditures for the output, transportation and distribution of power and
ensure a profitable activity of the enterprise and development of power industry. That said, power
tariff setting mechanism is on a “cost plus” basis since 2007 which ensures that Azerenerji covers
its costs and make a profit at full collection rates, as well as eliminated a need for state subsidies
to Azerenerji, made a power sector more attractive for investments, increased a strength of
Azerenerji to repay attracted loans, played a role in elimination of non –payment issues among
various subjects of power sector, contributed to material savings practices in power utilization
process. However as two of privatized distribution companies (Ali Bayramli and Ganja) were
returned to Azerenerji in 2006 and one was returned in 2009 (Sumgayitelektriksebeke) with
material issues, including lack of required investment in power infrastructure, low collection
levels and high technical losses, this affected a collection ratio in the distribution system of
Azerenerji. Bakelektriksebeke JSC was transferred back into state ownership in 2006.
Meanwhile, Azerenerji’s management has implemented complex measures reforming the power
distribution and billing systems in the ensuing period, resulting in significant growth in collection
of receivables from 47% in 2006 to 85% in 2011. This will continue with a comprehensive power
distribution system reform, including but not limited to replacement of post paid inefficient
collection system with modern smart grid technology based on pre-paid methodology, reducing
the technical and commercial thefts, enhancing the fiscal discipline and transparency in
performance and cutting operating and administrative expenses. A pilot project on smart grid
technology already started in Xirdalan Distribution Network with a funding from state budget,
based on the experience of which a process will continue in other networks.

In addition to above said and in light of Azerenerji’s central social and economic importance to
the Government of Azerbaijan, Government of Azerbaijan regulates Azerenerji’s payables and
receivables to to provide a Azerenerji with a financial flexibility and to facilitate its cash
management. For example, in 2010 under Cabinet Decree 148, accumulated payables of
AZN1.56 billion ($1.95 billion) to SOCAR were written off and simultaneously the Government
wrote off AZN1.56 billion of receivables to Azerenerji. Meanwhile, under Cabinet Decree 133 in
2011, Azerenerji’s accumulated receivable from Azersu JSC (state-owned water utility) and
Bakelektriksebeje JSC in the amount of 92,3 mln AZ were written off and simultaneously
Azerenerji’s payable to Ministry of Finance were written off for the same amount.;

- Indicator 2, right column: Please modify the text in the column in the following
manner: Tariffs are adequate to cover operating costs. But in 2010 and 2011, underpayments by
some customers brought to fund shortage to recover costs.

                                                 53
- I. Disbursement Profile (page vi): I could not find the profile mentioned; Please
insert the profile we sent earlier;

- 1.1 Context at Appraisal (page 1): Please modify the note to this page like below:
[1] Barmek Holding AS managed the Baku and Sumgait distribution networks; power
    distribution networks on the remaining mainland territory of Azerbaijan (i.e.
    excluding Nakhchivan Autonomic Republic ) were managed by private company
    “BAIVA”. Both BARMEK and BAIVA operated during 2002- 2006. In 2006, they
    were ousted due to their failure in performance of contract obligations. And since
    then Azerenerji controls all of distribution network excluding Baku with suburbs and
    Nakhchivan; BakiElektrikShebeke is in charge of the Baku distribution network.

- 1.5 Original Components (page 3): After “system substations” please insert the
  following text: “construction and equipping of Backup Control Center with proper
  hardware and software” and after “Dispatch Center” insert “or Backup Control Center”,

- Station adaptation and metering (page 4): Please withdraw the sentence: “Fuel
meters on each major thermal generating unit were to be provided for economic dispatch.”
because the fuel meters was excluded from the scope of the Project.

- Table in page 20, column “Actual Activities”: Please add the first para with the
following text: “; then it was decided to install this transformer at Agdjabedi 110 kV
substation because of unexpected load increasing;”

- The same table, same column, page 21: please add last para with the following text:
“and installation of 40 MVA Transformer initially intended for Imishli substation”;

- Transformers replacement (page31): Please modify the first para in the following
manner: “Five transformer replacement subprojects were completed under this
component at the following substations: Imishli 330 kV (two transformers), Agdjabedi
110 kV (one transformer) and Gala 110 kV (two ones), whose transformers were at or
close to capacity shortage (Imishli 330 kV, Agdjabedi 110 kV and Gala 110 kV)”

- Table A3.2: Financial Cash Flow: SACAD/ EMS System (page 27): Please insert a
note/clarification concerning the transmission losses planned on 2012 and next years,
considering of SCADA functionality in whole e.g. “It is expected that the transmission
losses will be decreased till 3.1% after 2012 due to SCADA/EMS full operation”;

- Table A3.3: Economic Cash Flow: SCADA/ EMS System (page 28): like above;

- Transformer Replacement (page 31): Please withdraw from the first paragraph the
substation name “Gandja 330” and insert “Agdjabedi 110” because the transformers
purchased under the Project were installed at three substations: Gala 110 kV S/S, Imishli
330 kV S/S and Agdjabedi 110 kV S/S; Mushvig 220 kV Substation was rehabilitated
under other project;


                                           54
- In the same clause in the same page: Please correct the last paragraph in accordance
with the previous comment.

DISCLOSURE:

-       Due to inconsistency on 2009-2012 numbers and financial projections, we
propose not to include the table on Azerenerji financial performance history (2009-11)
and BAU Projections (2012-2017) under BAU Conditions in the ICR. For the same
reason, please remove the figures of current ratio and debt-service ratio projections.

-      We would like to withdraw the table on collection rates by customer segments
from the ICR because of security reasons. Of course, the corresponding reference must be
excluded from the text.

-       Also, please, delete the figure of Year End Cash projections (and corresponding
references in the text) because it is discussable, and we cannot do planning such export of
electricity.

Attached please find the file with the ICR rev7 commented. The corrections and
insertions suggested are tracked there.
Best regards,

Teyyar Ibrahimov
Project Director
JSC “Azerenerji”
Phone:         +994 12 598 4184
Mobile: +994 50 225 3485
Fax: +994 12 598 4117
E-mail: tibrahimov@azerenerji.gov.az
Office address: 10, Acad. A.Alizadeh Str., AZ 1005 Baku - Azerbaijan




                                            55
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1.   Monthly Project Progress reports and Quarterly Project Management reports
   2.   Azerenerji Audited Financial Statements
   3.   Supervision Aide Memoires and Project/ Implementation Status Reports
   4.   Power Transmission Project Appraisal Document, May 17 2005
   5.   CAS for Azerbaijan, 2003-2005
   6.   CPS for Azerbaijan 2011-2014
   7.   Implementation Completion report by Azerenerji




                                          57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33695R

                                45°
                                                        To Tbilisi                                 46°                                                                         47°                                                             48°                                                             49°                                                            50°                                                  51°



                                                                                                                                                                                                          RUSSIAN                                                        To Derbent                                                                                                                      AZERBAIJAN
                G E O R G I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YALAMA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                         y
                                                                                                                                                   ha
                                                                                                                                  BALAKEN
                                                                                                                                                  kh c

                                                                                                                                                                                                   F E D E R AT I O N




                                                                                                                                             te
                                                                                                                                             Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OTHER
                                                                                                                                    KATEX                    ZAGATALA                                                                                                                                KHUDAT                                                 REHABILITATION                                                                                   EXISTING

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sa                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT SUBSTATIONS (REHABILITATION)                                                      THERMAL POWER PLANTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                             m   ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R iver                                                                             KHACHMAZ                                                            PROJECT NATIONAL DISPATCH CENTER (NDC)                                                    HYDRO POWER PLANTS
                   To Tbilisi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUSAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT BACKUP CONTROL CENTER (BCC)                                                       SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                     EYRICHAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GUBA               CHARCHI                                                                   PROJECT TRANSMISSION LINES (REHABILITATION):                     PLANNED                  TRANSMISSION LINES:




                                                                                         Iori
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                500 kV                                                                                    500 kV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DEVECHI                                                                  330 kV                                                                                    330 kV
                                                            No                                                                                                                SHEKI        SHEKI
                                                                 t in                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           220-230 kV                                                                                220-230 kV
                                                                        ser
                                                                              vice                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41°
                                                                                     , partly dis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               154 kV                                                                                    154 kV
                                                                                                  m    an                                                                                                                                                                                                      SIYAZAN
                                                           AGSTAFA                                          tle
                                                                                                                  d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                110 kV                                                                                    110 kV
                                              GAZAKH
 41°                                                                                                                                         Mi                                                                                            GABALA
                                                                                                                                               ng
                                                                                                                                                  ac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                              SHAMKIR                     Kura                       he
                                                                                           Shamkir                                                        vir                                                                                                                                                                                   GILAZI
                                                                                                                                                              Res
                                                                                           Reservoir                                                             er v                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                     o   ir
                                                                                                                           YENIKEND                                             MINGACHEVIR                                                                                                                   Ch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ISMAILLI                                        iki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lc   ha
                                                                                      DYUYERLI
                                                                                                                                                             AZERBAIJAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YASHMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                See inset for detail
                                                                                                        y



                                                                                                                        GANDJA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             y
                                                                                                       ha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C a s p i a n                                 S e a
                                                                                                   irc




                                                                                                                                                                 GORAN           VARVARA                                                                                                         SHAMAKHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SUMGAYIT
                                                                                                mk




                                                                                                   a                                                                                                                                 GOYCHAY
                                                                                              Sh             GANDJA 1                 GANDJA KYUREKCHAY                               YEVLAKH                                                                                         AGSU                                                                         SANAYE-GOVSHAGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHIMAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   LEKI                                                                                                                                                                KHIRDALAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 APSHERON                   BCC
                                                                                      DASHKESAN                                    KIRAZ 1                                                                                  UDJAR               MYUSYULYU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YSK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NDC          BAKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MUSHVIG                                                                                                                 KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                           BARDA                                                                  KURDAMIR                                                                                                                                                         UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                 TARTAR
                                               Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LÖKBATAN
                                              Sevan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SANGACHAL
                                                                                                                                                         TARTAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kura River                                                                                     GAZI-MAMMAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40°
                                                                                                                  KELBADZHAR                                        GOYTAPA           KHINDIRISTAR

 40°
             ARMENIA                                                                                                                                                                                         AGDZHEBEDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SABIRABAD                                                                   ALAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Black    Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Caspian
                                                                                                              ZULFUQARH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GEORGIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TURKMENISTAN
                                                                                                ISTISU                                                                                                                                                                                SAATLI                                ALI-BAYRAMLI
                                                                                                                                                                   AGDAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AZERBAIJAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YENI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Baku




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEILAGAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IMISHLI                                                                                                                                                                      TURKEY
            SADARAK                                                                                                                                                                         KHOCAVAND                         BAHRAMTAPA
                                                                                                                                                                    KHANKENDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KHALAJ
To Turkey                                                                                                                                 SHUSHA                                                            DASHBURUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARS-
                                                                                                                                     LACHIN                                                                                                     ABAD                                                                             SALYAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SYRIAN ARAB REP.        IRAQ              ISLAMIC REP. OF IRAN
                                                                                                                                                    SABIR NS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           BOYUK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  iv er
                      SHARUR                                                                                                                                                                               HARAMI                R                                       SAMADABAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            az
             Ara




                                                                                                                                                                                       FIZULI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BILASUVAR                                                                                                             Yashma            SUMGAYIT 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Caspian
              z




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kura        NEFTCHALA
                                                                                                                                                                                QOZLUCAY
                                GIVRAG                                                                                                                            JABRAYIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SANAYE-GOVSHAGI
                                                                                                                                      GUBADLI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUMGAYIT 1
                                               JEHRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GOREDIL        ZAVOD                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kara




                                                 BABEK
                      GARGALIG                       BSK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MASHTAGA
                                      XALCAQILIQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 su River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (132 kV)




                                                       NAKHCHIVAN 2                                                                                                                                                                                                              JALILABAD                                                                                                                                                                              BUZOVNA
                                       NAKHCHIVAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JEYRANBATAN                       BÖYÜK SOR
                                    Araz               KOROGLU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHIMAL
                                  Reservoir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MASALLI
                                                    ARAZ                                                                                        ZANGILAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     39°                                                                ZABRAT
 39°                                                   JULFA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KHIRDALAN                              AIRPORT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0       10    20     30     40    50                APSHERON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BORADIGAH                                                                                                                                                                RAMANA
                                                                                             ORDUBAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BCC      NIZAMI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                 I S L A M I C R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SÜRAKHANI
                                                        KHOY 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LENKORAN 1                                          This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                      OF IRAN                                                                                                                  Len
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  kar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BAKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HÖVSAN
                                                                                                                      KHOY                                                                                                                                                                                              LENKORAN 2                                                                                                                             ZYG
                                                                         KHOY 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and any other information shown on this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    map do not imply, on the part of The                                        MUSHVIG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    World Bank Group, any judgment on the                                       PATAMDAR
                                                                                                                                                   SARDROUD                                                                                                                                                                                         legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAGI DIZE
                                                                                                                                    TABRIZ                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To Ali
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LÖKBATAN                      Baku Bay
                    45°                                                                        46°                                                                                                                                                          48°                                                                                                                        50°          Bayramli
                                                                                                                      To Urmiya                      To Zanjan                                                                                                                                         ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OCTOBER 2009
