Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
September 30, 2010 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
H.E. Juan Carlos Echeverry 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico 
Carrera 8 No. 6-64 
Edificio San Augustin 
Bogota, DC 
Colombia 
 
Dear Excellency, 
 
Cross-Debarment by International Financial Institutions: 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement for Support for the Second Phase of the 
Expansion of the Program of Conditional Transfers-Familias En Accion Project 
(Loan No. 7619-CO)  
 
We refer to the loan agreement for the above-
referenced project (the “Loan Agreement”) between 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and Republic of Colombia 
(the “Borrower”). We also refer to our letter dated May 27, 2010 (attached) informing you of the 
approval by the Boards of the World Bank Group (referred to here as the “Board”) for the Bank 
to enforce debarment decisions made by International Financial Institutions with which the World 
Bank Group has signed an Agreement for the Mutual Enforcement of Debarment Decisions. 
2.  
As endorsed by the Board, the Bank proposes to amend existing legal agreements with all 
recipients of Bank financings to make applicable this cross-debarment regime to: 
 
(i) all new contracts for which the notification of award is issued and/or the contract 
signed after the effective date of the respective amendment letter; and 
 
(ii) all existing contracts whose scope, price or other terms are subject to material 
modification after the effective date of the respective amendment letter. 
3.  
In this respect the Bank proposes to amend the Loan Agreement as set out below. 
4.  
For purposes of this Amendment Letter the following terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a)  “Amendment Letter” refers to this letter;  
(b) “Agreement for the Mutual Enforcement of Debarment Decisions” means the 
agreement dated April 9, 2010 entered into among African Development Bank 
Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank Group and the World Bank 
Group, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; 
Page  2
Republic of Colombia 
                             September 30, 2010 
 
2
(c) 
“Bank” means IBRD with respect to an IBRD Loan, IDA with respect to an IDA 
Credit or IDA Grant, or both IBRD and IDA as the context requires;  
(d)  “General Conditions” means the General Conditions applicable to the Loan 
Agreement as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement; 
(e) “International Financial Institution” or “IFI” means the African Development Bank 
Group, the Asian Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the Inter-American Development Bank Group and any other institution 
that joins the Agreement for the Mutual Enforcement of Debarment Decisions in 
accordance with its terms;  
(f)    “Project” means the project defined as such in the Loan Agreement; and  
(g) “World Bank Group” is comprised of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, the International Development Association, the International Finance 
Corporation, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International 
Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. 
 
5.  
Through this Amendment Letter, the following Annex is added at the end of the Loan 
Agreement: 
“Annex 
Section 1
.
(a) A firm or an individual that has been found by an IFI to have engaged 
in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the 
proceeds of financing provided by such IFI, may be declared ineligible by the Bank on the 
terms set by the IFI to:  
 
(i)  be awarded a Bank-financed contract;  
(ii) be a nominated sub-contractor, consultant, manufacturer or supplier, or service provider 
of an otherwise eligible firm being awarded a Bank-financed contract;  
(iii) benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise; and  
(iv) otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the Project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank. 
 
(b)  
The provisions set out in Section 1(a) to this Annex apply to: (i) all new contracts 
for which the notification of award is issued and/or the contract signed after the effective date 
of the Amendment Letter; and (ii) all existing contracts whose scope, price or other terms are 
subject to material modification after the effective date of the Amendment Letter.” 
 
6.  
All terms of the Loan Agreement not hereby amended shall remain in full force and 
effect.  
7.  
Please confirm your agreement to the amendments proposed above by signing and dating 
the form of confirmation on the enclosed two copies of this Amendment Letter and returning one 
copy to us. Upon countersignature, this Amendment Letter shall take effect as of June 25, 2010. 
 
Sincerely, 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini 
Page  3
Republic of Colombia 
                             September 30, 2010 
 
3
Country Director, Colombia 
 
CONFIRMED 
and 
AGREED 
   
 
 
    
on behalf of    
 
 
 
 
   
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
 
 
 
By /s/ Juan Carlos Echeverry                                                  
 
 
 
Title: Minister of Finance and Public Credit  
 
Date: October 12, 2010  
 
CONFIRMED and AGREED 
 on behalf of 
 REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Juan Carlos Pinzón 
 
Title: Director of the Administrative Department of the Office of the President of the Republic  
 
Date: October 28, 2010  
 
