                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001740



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-76190)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$636.5 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                     FOR

 SUPPORT FOR THE SECOND PHASE OF THE EXPANSION OF THE PROGRAM
     OF CONDITIONAL TRANSFERS-FAMILIAS EN ACCION PROJECT

                                 June 29, 2012




Human Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2012)

                       Currency Unit = Colombia Peso
                            COP 1,791.8 = US$1

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Advisory Services
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfer
CONPES   National Commission on Economic and Social Policy (Consejo Nacional de
         Política Económica y Social)
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DAPR     Administrative Department of the Presidential Office in charge of the Acción
Social   Investment Fund for Peace (Departamento Administrativo de la
FIP      Presidencia de la República-Agencia Presidencial para Acción Social y
         Cooperación Internacional-Fondo de Inversión para la Paz-FIP)
DNP      National Planning Department
FM       Financial Management
IADB     Inter – American Development Bank
ICR      Implementation Completion and result Report
IPP      Indigenous Peoples Plan
ISRs     Information Systems Renewal
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MIS      Management Information System
MSP      Ministry of Social Protection
NDP      National Development Plan
OPRC     Operational Procurement Review Committee
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
SIPOD    Information System of Displaces Population+
SISBEN   System for the Selection of Programs’ Beneficiaries (Sistema de Identificación de
         Potenciales Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales)
TORs     Terms of References
WB       World Bank

                         Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                       Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                        Sector Manager: Mansoora Rashid
                   Project Team Leader: Theresa Jones
                      ICR Team Leader: Theresa Jones
                           COLOMBIA
      SUPPORT FOR THE SECOND PHASE OF THE EXPANSION OF THE
      PROGRAM OF CONDITIONAL TRANSFERS-FAMILIAS EN ACCION
                            PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 62
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 63
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Support for the Second
                                                                           Phase of the Expansion
                                                                           of the Program of
Country:                Colombia                 Project Name:
                                                                           Conditional Transfers-
                                                                           Familias en Acción
                                                                           Project
Project ID:             P101211                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-76190
ICR Date:               06/29/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 636.50M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 636.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 636.50M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 DAPR-Accion Social-FIP, Presidency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/01/2008      Effectiveness:             02/04/2009        02/04/2009
Appraisal:            09/29/2008      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/18/2008      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                33                  33
Other social services                                                 50                  50
Primary education                                                      9                   9
Secondary education                                                    8                   8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     33                  33
Nutrition and food security                                           17                  17
Social safety nets                                                    50                  50

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:            Mansoora Rashid                      Helena G. Ribe
Project Team Leader:       Theresa Jones                        Theresa Jones
ICR Team Leader:           Theresa Jones
ICR Primary Author:        Theresa Jones


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed project would finance Colombia's conditional cash transfer (CCT)
program, Familias, which was expanded during 2007 to cover about 1.7 million poor
families (including about 250,000 displaced families). The principal project development
objectives are:


                                                  ii
  - Complement the income of poor families with minors under 18 (SISBEN level 1 and
the displaced)
  - Promote human capital formation of poor children by increasing regular check-ups,
including growth monitoring, and vaccinations and by increasing enrollment and school
attendance (basic and/or secondary education)
  - Strengthen program quality

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)         Values       Target Years
                Net change in household (1) total consumption; (2) food consumption; (3)protein
                consumption (milk, poultry and meat); and high quality food (fruits and
Indicator 1 :
                vegetables). (3) and (4) measured by share who consume and number of days
                consumed, respectively
                                                                            (1)US$20/mo***
                                                                            (2)US$6.75/mo*
                                                                            (3)12-16
                                                                            percentage points
                                                                            depending on
Value
                                                                            product
quantitative or                            No targets set.
                                                                            (4).27-.49 days
Qualitative)
                                                                            depending on
                                                                            product
                                                                            Achieved given
                                                                            positive net impact
                                                                            of program
Date achieved                              12/30/2008                       12/30/2011
                For ITT/TOT definitions see footnote 9.
                (1) US$42/month ***TOT
Comments        (2) US$24/month*TOT
(incl. %        (3) 15.4-21.3 TOT depending on product
achievement) (4) .24-.49 days TOT depending on product
                For (3) and (4) significance varies depending on product
                Achieved
Indicator 2 : Net change in chronic malnutrition amongst children under 5
Value
                                                                            .215* on height for
quantitative or                            No target set.
                                                                            age z score
Qualitative)
Date achieved                              12/30/2008                       12/30/2011
Comments        Achieved given positive net impact of program.
(incl. %        The z-score measures the degree to which a child's measurement deviate from
achievement) what is expected for that child based on a reference population


                                              iii
Indicator 3 :     Net change in secondary school attendance
                                                                               (1) 2-13.5 pp
Value
                                                                               depending on
quantitative or                              No target set.
                                                                               gender, scheme and
Qualitative)
                                                                               location**
Date achieved                               12/30/2008                         12/30/2011
Comments
                  Results are reported from impact evaluation SISBEN census methodology.
(incl. %
                  Achieved given positive net impact of program.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Net change in drop-out in secondary school
Value                                                                          Sample size not
quantitative or                             No target set.                     sufficient to
Qualitative)                                                                   measure.
Date achieved                               12/30/2008                         12/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Sample size insufficient to judge whether program has positive net impact or not.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Net change in use of preventive services according to the national protocols
Value
quantitative or                             No target set.                     11.8*** pp
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               12/30/2008                         12/30/2011
Comments
                  13.2 *** percentage points for TOT.
(incl. %
                  Achieved given positive net impact of program.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Net change in percentage of children aged 0-6 with complete DPT vaccination.
Value
quantitative or                             No target set.                     4.2*pp
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               12/30/2008                         12/30/2011
Comments
                  4.0*percentage points for TOT measure.
(incl. %
                  Achieved given positive net impact of program.
achievement)
                Number of registered families as a percentage of number of families eligible
                (1)Overall
Indicator 7 : (2)Small municipalities (&lt;100,000 inhabitants)
                (3)Large municipalities (&gt;100,000 inhabitants)
                (4)Indigenous
                (1)62.1%                                                    (1)61.6%
Value
                (2)68.0%                                                     (2)63.6%/
quantitative or                           No target set.
                (3)53.2%                                                    (3)55.6%
Qualitative)
                (4)90%                                                      (4)66.9%
Date achieved 06/30/2008                  12/30/2008                        12/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement) Partially achieved.




                                                 iv
                Control of responsibilities in health: number of families who comply in health, as
Indicator 8 :   percentage of total number of beneficiary families in health for (1) Total, (2)
                small municipalities, (3) large municipalities, and (4) urban centers
                                                                               (1)     70.8%
Value
                                                                               (2)     79.3%
quantitative or (1) 91.7%                   No target set.
                                                                               (3)     66.3%
Qualitative)
                                                                               (4)     56.5%
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                         12/30/2011
Comments
                Data from 5th payment cycle in 2011
(incl. %
                Given significant decline, not achieved.
achievement)
                Control of responsibilities in education: number of children who comply in
Indicator 9 : education, as percentage of total number of beneficiary children for (1) Total (2)
                Small municipalities (3) Large municipalities (Urban centers)
                                                                               (1)68.0%
Value
                                                                               (2) 68.0%
quantitative or (1)     71.9% (6/08)        No target set.
                                                                               (3)64.6%
Qualitative)
                                                                               (4)58.2%
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                         10/31/2011
Comments        Measured as share of all children participating in the program, so considers both
(incl. %        children who are not enrolled in school and those who although enrolled are not
achievement) meeting the attendance requirement.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                   Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                 approval                      Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                      Target Years
                Withdrawal: Number of families removed from the program (in previous year),
Indicator 1 :
                by reason.
                                                                            153,092
                                                                            • 45% non-
                                                                            payment for 3
Value                                                                       cycles
(quantitative   23,959                      No target set.                  • 36% non-
or Qualitative)                                                             compliance with
                                                                            conditions
                                                                            • 19% children
                                                                            exceeded age li
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                      12/30/2011
Comments
                Given demonstrated improvements in controls over beneficiary registry as shown
(incl. %
                by this indicator, judged to be achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Training: Percentage of beneficiaries having received training from the program.
Value
(quantitative   47.5                        No target set.                  38.5%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                      12/30/2011


                                                v
Comments
                Organization of training events suspended before elections (outside of control of
(incl. %
                Program, so in spite of decline judged to be partially achieved.
achievement)
                Difficulties in process of control: Percentage of beneficiaries reporting
Indicator 3 :
                difficulties, by type(1) health and (2) education
Value
                (1)1.7%                                                         (1)0.4%
(quantitative                               No target set.
                (2) 1.1%                                                        (2) 4.1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                          12/30/2010
                Data comes from reports on periodic monitoring of how program procedures are
Comments
                implemented at the local level, not from the MIS, so annual data is not available.
(incl. %
                Given its availability and the use of indicator for monitoring, judged to be
achievement)
                achieved.
                Alerts in process of control: number of municipalities in yellow or red alert in
Indicator 4 :
                health and education
Value
(quantitative   121 municipalities          No target set.                      120 municipalities
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                          12/30/2011
Comments
                Given its availability and the use of indicator for monitoring, judged to be
(incl. %
                achieved.
achievement)
                Payment: Number of families paid, as a share of number of families complying
Indicator 5 : with their responsibilities for (1)Total, (2)small municipalities, (3)large
                municipalities, and (4)urban centers.
                                                                                98.0%
Value
                                                                                95.03%
(quantitative   94.58%(overall)             No target set.
                                                                                98.1%
or Qualitative)
                                                                                97.6%
Date achieved 06/30/2008                    12/30/2008                          12/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Given improvement registered, judged to be achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Alerts in process of payment: number of municipalities in yellow or red alert
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        For each bimonthly payment cycle the program identified municipalities which
(incl. %        showed unusual changes in the number or share of beneficiaries paid, although
achievement) the system of red and yellow alerts was not used.
                Complaints:
Indicator 7 : (1)Number of complaints by type
                (2) Percentage of complaints addressed in less than 15 working days
Value
                                                                                (1)73.432
(quantitative
                                                                                (2)92.6%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   12/30/2011



                                                vi
Comments
                Given its availability and the use of indicator for monitoring, judged to be
(incl. %
                achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :   % of municipalities and families verifying conditions by type of mechanism
                                                                             Precise data not
                                                                             available, but
                                                                             Program using to a
                                                                             greater extent other
                                                                             methods of
                Main mechanism in use is
Value                                                                        verification,
                presentation by mothers
(quantitative                                                                including
                of evidence of
or Qualitative)                                                              comparisons of data
                compliance
                                                                             bases by municipal
                                                                             representative of
                                                                             Program and entry
                                                                             of information on
                                                                             compliance.
Date achieved 06/30/2008                                                     12/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Partially achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     02/27/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     11/11/2009           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   222.50
  3     06/28/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   523.70
  4     12/18/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   636.50


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

A. Country and sector issues

At the time of appraisal in 2008, Colombia had benefited from sustained economic
growth and a reduction in poverty for 5 years. By 2006, the poverty rate had fallen to 45
percent, compared to 55 percent in 2002 and the extreme poverty rate had dropped from
20 to 12 percent. Despite these improvements, regional, ethnic and gender disparities
remained, particularly in rural areas and among female-headed households, indigenous
people, Afro-Colombians, and displaced individuals. Nearly 30 percent of the indigenous
population and 25 percent of Afro-Colombians were considered extremely poor.
Moreover, it seemed likely that the rapid growth of 2007 would subside.

A national priority was assisting needy families to invest in the human capital of their
children, particularly in education and health. School attendance had increased across all
age groups, but Colombia still lagged behind Latin American averages. In rural areas,
only 87 percent of children aged 7-11 attended school while rates dropped to 63 percent
for 12-17 year olds. Sizeable gaps also existed between poorer and richer departments.
According to the 2005 National Demographic and Health Survey, 10 percent of children
under 5 in rural areas and 6 percent of those in urban areas suffered from global
malnutrition (weight for age). There were also significant differences in rates between
children in households in the lowest-ranked income group (11.6 percent) and those in the
highest income group (3.2 percent).

Familias en Acción (hereafter referred as Familias) is a Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT)
program which disburses cash transfers (grants) to families, conditional on compliance
with certain requirements primarily related to ensuring that children are enrolled and
attend school and also receive health check-ups. Since its start in 2001, the objectives
and coverage of Familias have evolved. In 2005, positive findings from an impact
evaluation1 led to the first expansion of the program as well as a change in focus from
preservation to the promotion of human capital. In the National Development Plan 2006-
2010, Familias was a key element within the social promotion component of the social
protection system and in the strategy to reduce extreme poverty – the Social Protection
Network to Overcome Extreme Poverty (Juntos, now called Unidos). The role of
Familias as both entry point and cornerstone for Juntos had important implications. A
major expansion in coverage was needed to give all municipalities access to Familias and
the authorities had to consider possible adjustments in its design so as to ensure its
continued efficiency and effectiveness in a larger operational context.


1
 Primer Seguimiento de la evaluación de impacto del programa Familias en Acción, carried out
by the National Department of Planning through a contract with the Institute for Fiscal Studies,
Econometria S.A, and Sistemas Especializados de Información-SEI.



                                                1
B. Rationale for Bank assistance

The project was the fourth World Bank loan supporting Familias en Acción. Since its
inception in 2001, the Bank had provided technical assistance and financial resources to
help strengthen the program, as well as supported Colombia’s broader social protection
system through a series of programmatic structural adjustment and development policy
loans and a technical assistance project.2 In addition to financing, it was intended that the
project be a vehicle for continued technical cooperation and support for the program. The
project would be complemented by a World Bank program of knowledge and convening
services, Strengthening Social Protection in Colombia.

C. Higher level objectives to which the project contributed

The World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY08-11 was based on
Colombia’s National Development Plan (NDP). It included five areas of concentration
and collaboration, including sustained equitable growth, environment and natural
resources management, good governance, poverty alleviation and equity of opportunity
and peace. In the latter two areas, Familias and complementary non-lending technical
assistance were key contributions to the eradication of extreme poverty, the reduction in
regional inequality, strengthening the social safety net, and removing access barriers to
education and health services in high conflict zones. The CPS stressed the importance of
continuity with successful operations through second and third-generation projects. The
project also contributed to Colombia’s efforts to meet several Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs) and its strategy to reduce extreme poverty (Juntos).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objectives were: (a) complement the income of poor families
with children; (b) promote human capital formation of poor children by increasing
regular check-ups, for growth monitoring and other services, and by increasing
enrollment and school attendance (basic and/or secondary education); and (c) strengthen
program quality. Key performance indicators were the following:

       Net improvements in household total, food (including fruits and vegetables) and
        protein consumption.
       Net change in chronic malnutrition among children under 5.
       Net change in enrollment, attendance and drop-out in secondary schools.
       Net change in use of preventive health services according to national protocols.
       Net change in percentage of children age 0-6 with complete immunization
        package.



2
 See ICR, No. 522, December 21, 2007, ICR No. 1332, December 18, 2009, and ICR No. 1829,
June 29, 2011.



                                             2
      Percentage of families who comply with the requirements for health check-ups for
       children by age, population and geographic groups.
      Percentage of families who comply with the school enrollment and attendance
       requirements, by age, population and geographic groups.
      Percentage of municipalities and families verifying the health and schooling
       requirements by type of mechanism.
      Percentage of families inscribed in the program who are paid, by geographic and
       population groups.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

There were no revisions to the PDOs or key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries were poor families with children below 18 years of age,
particularly the children in those households. At the time of appraisal, the project was
expected to finance transfers for roughly 1.5 million families, out of the 1.7 million
families reached by the program after its second phase of expansion.

1.5 Original Components

The project had one component - Consolidation and Expansion of the Familias
Program. The project was to finance cash transfers (grants) to the participant families
who complied with the conditions. These included: (a) assuring that children 0-6 (and in
some cities 7-11) regularly visit health centers according to national protocols; and (b)
assuring that children 7-17 years of age enroll in school and attend classes no less than 80
percent of the time. It was also intended that the project finance the bank commissions
associated with delivering those payments and consultancy services and analytical studies.

As of 2007, the program began to operate in large cities (a pilot in Medellin, Soacha and
Cali had been carried out earlier). Since the different socio-demographic and economic
characteristics of large cities could affect the potential results of Familias, the NDP and
the program reviewed the structure of conditions. In addition, the results of the impact
evaluation which had been carried out for rural areas and small municipalities showed no
program impact on primary school attendance in department capitals. Because the higher
attendance rate for primary school in urban areas (93 percent in 2005) left little space to
achieve a significant impact a decision was made to tailor the conditions to improve
impact by focusing on the secondary level.

During the project, the program tested three different structures of transfers and
conditions in urban areas. The changes were intended to reflect better the opportunity
cost of secondary education in urban areas by raising the subsidy amount, particularly at
levels where drop-out is a problem, in order to provide incentives for students to
complete important grade levels. The main difference was that in two schemes
(incremental) the value of the subsidy increased for higher grades, while in the other



                                             3
scheme (savings), families received a “bonus? for completing certain grades (ninth and
eleventh). Only the structure differs; the overall amount received by the family is the
same.

1.6 Revised Components

The project component was not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

In late 2008, the Government decided to further expand the coverage of Familias. The
Program started to register new families in December 2008 prioritizing the departments
and municipalities which had been most affected by the emergency caused by large scale
fraudulent ponzi schemes in which numerous people had lost resources. In November
2008, the Government issued an Emergency Decree recognizing that special actions were
needed to compensate the families affected, particularly low-income households. As a
result of this expansion, the coverage of the program increased from 1.7 million families
at the time of project appraisal to 2.7 million families by the end of 2009. The
Government financed the expansion with national resources. A second significant
change was that loan resources originally envisaged to finance bank commissions were
reallocated to cash transfers. Details of these changes are described in Section 2.4. Bank
management approved the reallocation on January 4, 2010.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design reflected sound analytical and operational analysis derived
from the Bank’s prior involvement in the area of social protection in Colombia. Bank
staff drew on the analytical work done for previous phases as well as lessons learned
from the program after eight years of operations. The project was a logical extension
designed to support adaptations of the program to urban areas and to areas with the
largest social disparities such as indigenous communities, as well as improvements in
quality. The program would also continue incorporating the eligible displaced population.
Project design was informed by the results of a series of previous impact evaluations in
rural areas (baseline and 2 follow-ups), as well as impact evaluations of similar
interventions which were piloted in two large cities –Bogota and Medellin. These impact
evaluations were managed by the Government through consultancy contracts, with
technical and financial support from the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB). It made sense to test different structures of benefits in urban
areas and to evaluate their results.

The Project Development Objectives focused on outcomes for which the operation could
be held accountable. They were clear, realistic and important in the context of both the
CPS and the NDP and responsive to Borrower priorities. The implementing agency,
Acción Social, had sufficient capacity. IADB was a key partner of the Bank, continuing
the history of joint support to Familias. The commitment of the Government to Familias


                                            4
was clear. According to the National Development Plan 2006-2010, Familias was a key
element in the social protection system. The Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y
Social (CONPES) had approved the request of the Government to contract loans for up to
US$1.5 billion from the IADB and the Bank to finance the operation of Familias during
2007-2010.

The assessment of risks and the discussion of mitigation measures were comprehensive
and focused primarily on potential weaknesses in the design and operational procedures
of Familias. Most risk mitigation measures were incorporated into project supervision
arrangements and the analytical support to be provided to the program during
implementation. Risk mitigation measures worked effectively, and were particularly
important given the expansion during late 2008-2009. In particular, the systems audit
helped to identify the improvements which were needed in the management information
system (MIS) of the Familias Program. It was carried out during 2008 by
PriceWaterhouseCoopers in order to determine whether risk management, control, and
governance processes over the MIS provided reasonable assurances that the security and
confidentiality of data and information is appropriate and that the quality and integrity of
the data processed ensures accurate and complete management reporting, among other
topics.

Project design was not overly complex as it had only one component and responded to
the Government´s specific requests in terms of the financing package. The design of
Familias was not overambitious and the program was able to carry out most of the
innovations stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Project design and quality
at entry is considered to be satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was generally satisfactory, particularly considering the significant
expansion of the program which was not foreseen at the time of appraisal. The need of
the Program to focus on the challenge of the expansion probably did delay to some extent
the progress made on some quality improvements. In addition, the expansion
necessitated a reformulation of the design and schedule for the impact evaluation,
contributing to its delay and the need to extend the project by one year to December 31,
2011. An evaluation of operational aspects of the Program 3 showed that there were
weaknesses in the communication to families of the different schemes of transfers and/or
difficulties in understanding the somewhat complex structures of transfers. Even though
knowledge increased between the baseline (2007) and the follow-up survey (2011), in the
case of locations where the incremental scheme was implemented, only about one-third
of the mothers knew that the transfer level increased according to grade level, while two-
thirds of mothers responded that they did not know. A similar situation was found in
localities where the “savings? scheme was implemented. Only four percent of mothers


3
 Evaluación del Programa Familias en Acción en Grandes Centros Urbanos, Informe Final,
Centro Nacional de Consultoria, December 2011.



                                             5
knew that a bonus was received for passing 9th grade and enrolling in 10th grade, while
nearly one-quarter of mothers knew that a bonus was received for graduating from
secondary school. Again about two-thirds of mothers responded that they did not know.
In spite of the lack of knowledge, administrative data show that between 70 percent and
86 percent of eligible students on average among all localities received the bonus,
varying according to the type of bonus and the year. On the other hand, steady progress
was made in reaching the goal for registration of eligible families in indigenous
communities and the fact that the results of the systems audit were available early on
permitted substantial progress to be made during project implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design is assessed as satisfactory. Monitoring indicators were selected based on the
existing MIS of the program. A moderate shortcoming is that the proposed detailed
breakdown of some indicators by type of population (SISBEN 1, displaced, indigenous,
and small vs. large municipalities) was probably overly ambitious and proved difficult to
implement in practice. An external impact evaluation was built into the project in order
to evaluate the results for the different structures of benefits being tested in urban areas.
The evaluation used a quasi-experimental design combine and included also a process
evaluation and a qualitative assessment of knowledge and perceptions from different
stakeholders. When the unanticipated expansion of the program made the initial design
unfeasible, the Government responded, in consultation with the IADB and the Bank, by
modifying the contracting process to request alternate designs. The program also
contracted a third follow-up and analysis of the original evaluation which covered
localities below 100,000 inhabitants, financed under the IADB project.

Implementation was satisfactory. The Strategy and Monitoring unit produced regular
reports on compliance with conditions, status of families, complaints, payments, and the
process of opening bank accounts for beneficiaries, which covered most of the indicators
included in the results framework. The quality and completeness of the information
improved and was an important input for decision-making by the program staff. As
described in the PAD, an impact evaluation designed to measure the results of the
different structures of education transfers being piloted in large cities was contracted to a
local consultancy firm (Centro Nacional de Consultoria). The baseline survey was
carried out in late 2007 (early 2008 in the case of Bogota) and the follow-up in
February/March 2011. As explained above, implementation of the impact evaluation was
affected by the decision to expand the program, and as a result suffered a delay of about a
year and the methodology had to be revised. The final report was delivered at the end of
2011. While the results of this impact evaluation arrived too late to affect the
implementation of the project, they are influencing decisions that are currently being
taken by the Government of Colombia on the redesign of the program.

M&E utilization was also satisfactory. Data on monitoring indicators were used to
organize remedial actions and local supervision visits as necessary. The results of the
impact evaluation are being taken into account in the Government’s redesign of the
Familias Program which is currently underway.



                                             6
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The project triggered the safeguard policy OP. 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples
and an Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP) was prepared and was the basis for consultations
during project preparation. During implementation of the previous Social Safety Net
Project (Lns. 7337 and 7433), the program carried out a pilot in indigenous communities,
including consultations on the proposed strategy. Agreement was reached with the
indigenous population and municipal authorities in 4 pilot communities on program
implementation. The IPP described the main results of the pilot, discussed the
modifications in the program to adapt to indigenous communities, and included measures
designed to ensure that indigenous peoples received culturally appropriate social and
economic benefits. As a result of the IPP, an Operational Manual for the indigenous
population was prepared as an annex to the Operational Manual of the program. At the
time of project appraisal, Familias had started to consult with indigenous communities in
about 20 departments and had initiated preparatory work in 14 localities, and expected to
register 70,000 indigenous families with 152,000 eligible children during the life of the
project.

The program has made significant progress registering indigenous families who live in
communities which were not registered for the targeting instrument (SISBEN) 4 and
working with indigenous liaisons (enlaces indígenas), who are selected from among the
participants in the program, to ensure that operational processes run as planned. The
program has registered 78,161 indigenous families (as of the end of 2011), of which
71,997 families received benefits during 2011.5 Between August 2009 and April 2010,
the program conducted a process evaluation of its operations in indigenous communities.6
The evaluation found that the program has effectively expanded among indigenous
peoples taking into account their beliefs, cultural identity, and traditional values. The
indigenous assemblies (Asambleas Indígenas), a gathering where participants openly
discuss topics important to the community, were key to the process of registration of new
beneficiaries. The evaluation found that the assemblies were the most important and
efficient feature of the operational process of the program and differentiated the way it
operated in these localities. Eligible families were selected in the assemblies using a
process of self-targeting based on the criteria of the Program. In addition, it was
common to resolve complaints and appeals in collective gatherings such as the
assemblies or other internal discussions. The assemblies were also an effective


4
  Indigenous families eligible for the program are registered in SISBEN enter the program under
the usual procedures.
5
 This represents roughly 25 percent of the estimated 1,392,000 indigenous in Colombia, without
considering the indigenous population who had registered in SISBEN and entered the program
under the usual procedures.
6
 Evaluación de Operaciones de los Proyectos Piloto del Programa Familias en Acción en
Comunidades Indígenas (Centro Nacional de Consultoria, 30 abril 2010).



                                               7
mechanism to oversee the implementation of the program in these communities. The
evaluation found that Familias has empowered female heads of households by providing
them with extra income and by encouraging them to participate regularly in local
assemblies. In addition, the program increased communication between mothers and
linked them to local health and education services.

The evaluation found no evidence that the operation of the program had caused negative
consequences on the traditional production systems or socio-cultural practices. On the
contrary, the program had contributed to the strengthening of indigenous institutions,
especially the indigenous councils and the institutions providing health services. On the
other hand, neither the cultural pertinence nor the consistency with the objectives or other
components of the Familas program were clear for some complementary activities
undertaken such as activities related to food self-sufficiency. No analysis is available yet
on the results and impact of the Program on human capital formation in indigenous
communities.

Fiduciary Issues. The implementing agency (DAPR-Acción Social-FIP) complied with
the Bank’s fiduciary requirements in the area of financial management. Throughout
implementation, FM performance was rated “moderately satisfactory.? IFRs and annual
financial audits were acceptable to the Bank and delivered in a timely manner. In the
case of the latter, opinions were unqualified. Early during project implementation, at the
request of both the Bank and the IADB, a systems audit was carried out, which provided
useful advice to the implementing agency on how to improve the robustness and
reliability of the MIS.

In the area of procurement, there were difficulties with the procurement process for
banking services to handle the payment of the cash grants and open bank accounts for
program participants. Although substantial interest was demonstrated at various
information sessions, only one bidder presented a proposal, and the cost associated with
this proposal was substantially higher than expected. Prior to responding to the request
for no objection to the evaluation report and draft contract (sent by the Borrower
December 1, 2008), the Regional Procurement Advisor instructed the project team to
contact the banks which did not present bids to find out the reasons for their decision not
to participate and to contract a market study to evaluate the “reasonableness? of the offer
in the context of market conditions in Colombia. Given the size of the contract, the case
was reviewed by the OPRC (April 29, 2009). In July 2009, the decision of the OPRC
committee not to provide the Bank’s no objection to the proposed award was
communicated to project staff. In the meantime, the Borrower had proceeded to sign the
contract. The Bank task team leader communicated to the Government the decision not
to provide the no objection because the bidding lots had been grouped in a manner that
had not generated the necessary competition to comply with the Bank’s Procurement
Guidelines. The fact that the Borrower had both negotiated with the bidder and signed
the contract before having received the Bank’s no objection were also contrary to Bank
guidelines and closed off any other alternative for dealing with the bidding process. An
audit of the process of the contracting of the process of paying the transfers and opening
up bank accounts for the program participants, carried out by the program, showed that in



                                             8
other respects the guidelines of the Bank had been followed. Subsequently, the Bank and
the Government agreed that the resources which had been allocated to bank commissions
would be reassigned to the category of cash grants. In response to an official request for
this reallocation, the Bank management effected the change and informed the
Government in January 2010.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Familias is broadly recognized as having contributed to improving the welfare of poor
families in Colombia. After almost ten years of operations and with a new government
recently elected, the authorities are in the process of re-assessing many of its key features.
The new administration has decided to maintain the program at least at its current size,
with a small expansion possible. A key step to institutionalize the program took place
June 7, 2012, when a law was passed by the Congress and signed by the President which
regulated the main aspects and functions of the program. In addition, the Government
has made a decision to enroll any family in the Red Unidos who is eligible, but not a
current participant of the program into Familias.

Two important changes will affect the next phase of implementation of Familias. The
first is that on November 3, 2011, Decree 4155 transformed the implementing agency,
Acción Social, into the Administrative Department for Social Prosperity, an important
institutional change in the context of the Government’s poverty reduction strategy.
Acción Social was intended to be primarily an executing agency. The new Department
has broader responsibilities as a rector over various components of the social protection
system, including formulating and designing policies and programs. Unlike Acción
Social, the new Department has the rank of a Ministry.

Second, for the first time since its inception, the operation of Familias will be funded
almost entirely with national resources starting in 2012, once a small balance from the
IADB loan is fully disbursed, mainly for studies. There are no plans for a follow-on
World Bank loan to finance Familias. Already in 2011, the share of external financing
had dropped from nearly sixty percent in 2010 to only seven percent. In the past some
observers had expressed concern with the high share of external financing of the program,
however, it does not seem to have prevented the Colombian authorities from financing it
now entirely with national resources. In spite of the termination of external financing to
cover the cash transfers, the program has requested to continue with the agenda of
technical assistance that the Bank and IADB have jointly provided in recent years. The
Bank has already held meetings with key officials in the new administration to discuss
possible areas of support which would be included within ongoing programmatic
knowledge and convening services.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The Project’s objectives, design and implementation were highly relevant and remain
consistent with Colombia’s development priorities and with current Bank country and


                                              9
sector assistance strategies. This is clearly demonstrated by the Government’s decision to
expand the program to reach 2.7 million Colombian families (roughly 17 percent of the
country’s population) and to secure sufficient national financial resources for its
operations in the upcoming years. The World Bank provided guidance and support
throughout the expansion and consolidation of the program, especially in the
strengthening of key operational processes. The project was complemented during
implementation by a strong World Bank program of knowledge and convening services
called Strengthening Social Protection in Colombia, which focused on providing
technical assistance to the Government of Colombia in building a more effective, and
inclusive social protection system through the Red Juntos and an expanded social
insurance system.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Before moving to a discussion of the outcomes, it is worth noting that the resources
provided through the World Bank loan were part of a larger program of assistance to the
Familias en Acción program which included substantial resources from the IADB. For
administrative simplicity, the Colombian government preferred to access financing
consecutively from each institution, as opposed to parallel financing. Nevertheless, at
their request the staff of both institutions worked together without distinguishing which
loan was disbursing at the time or the stage of preparation of new financing. For that
reason, the dates mentioned below (for example, related to the impact evaluation) should
be seen in the context of the overall program, rather than this specific World Bank project
(P101211). 7

Achievement is discussed for each of the three project development objectives, focusing
primarily on the results on the outcome indicators in the context of a program whose
coverage exceeded expectations because of its expansion from 1.7 to 2.7 million families.
There are two main sources for the data on outcome indicators. The first is the impact
evaluation of the program in large cities which was carried out under a several contracts
and was partially financed by the loan.8 The baseline survey was done in late 2007 (early
2008 in the case of Bogotá) before the expansion of the program into large cities to test
the different structures of benefits. The follow-up survey was done in early 2011.
Following conventional practice, the estimates reported are intention-to-treat (ITT). The
data sheet includes results for treatment on treated (TOT) in the comments section.9


7
 Disbursements from Ln. 76190 began in early 2009 and were substantially completed by the end
of 2010. The loan stayed open until end 2011 primarily in order to complete the urban impact
evaluation. In 2011, the main source of external financing for the program was the IADB.
8
 Evaluación del Programa Familias en Acción en Grandes Centros Urbanos, Central Naconal
de Consultoria, December 2011.
9
  The ITT estimate measures the impact of the treatment on the entire sub-sample eligible for
treatment, relative to the entire sub-sample of eligible controls, this is on the entire sub-sample of


                                                  10
The evaluation was intended to cover both overall program impact and to compare the
impacts of the alternative transfer schemes in large cities. Two important considerations
need to be kept in mind to interpret the results of the impact evaluation. First, the control
group is comprised of families who were not eligible to participate in the program
because their scores on the targeting instrument were just above the cut-off, while the
treatment group is comprised of those participants whose scores are just below the cut-off
point. Thus, the effects which are reported in the impact evaluation are localized effects
around the cut-off. Since international evidence suggests that the impacts of conditional
cash transfer programs tend to be larger for poorer participants, these results should be
treated as lower-bound estimates. Second, for several indicators, particularly in the case
of education, where results were expected only for secondary students, for transition
points (9th and 11th grade graduation), and for relatively rare occurrences (school drop-
out), the sample was not sufficiently large for the relevant groups to be able to pick up
changes of the likely magnitude.

In order to compensate for this problem, an alternate methodology was used, comparing
education indicators contained within the administrative data for the targeting instrument
(SISBEN) at two points in time (2006 and 2009). Instead of depending on the sample of
households covered in the baseline and follow-up surveys, these registers are a census of
the participants of the program. The treatment group is made up of the universe of all
households eligible to participate in Familias en Acción who are just below the cut-off for
eligibility, while the control group is comprised of households in Level 2 of SISBEN
right about the cut-off for eligibility. The same comment made above about localized
effects applies.

The second source of data which covers operational aspects comes from the program’s
MIS. Detailed figures are included in the Data Sheet. Because the project was extended
until December 2011, figures are provided as of that date. Annex 2 contains data for
2009 and 2010 for most of these indicators. The sections below summarize the main
results.


    (1) Complement the income of poor families with children

The measures related to this objective were net improvements in household total, food
and protein consumption amongst beneficiaries (particularly high quality food such as
fruits and vegetables) in large cities, with data drawn from the comparisons between the
control and treatment groups. No specific targets were set for these indicators nor those


households that the program intended to assist; the TOT estimate measures impact of the
treatment on the sum-sample of eligibles who were “actually? treated. The TOT impacts thus
adjust for both treatment and participation and might present biased estimates of the impact the
program would have on all eligible if the participation decision is driven by unobservable
household characteristics correlated with the outcome of interest.



                                                11
related to human capital formation of poor children (discussed in the section below)
although comparisons can be made with the results for similar indicators in the impact
evaluation for rural areas and for similar programs in other countries where such data
exist. The impact evaluation shows positive impacts of the program on total and food
spending. There were spending declines for both the control and treatment groups
probably reflecting the decline in private consumption experienced in Colombia due to
the effects of the 2008/09 global crisis, but the drop was significantly less for the
treatment group. In the case of food consumption, the impact evaluation examines
program impact using two measures - the percentage of children who consume specific
food products and the frequency (number of days per week) of consumption. There is
evidence of the positive impact of the program in increasing consumption of proteins and
fruits and vegetables according to both measures, although for a broader set of products
in the case of the former. In view of the positive impact of the program on the four
indicators related to consumption, the assessment is that this objective was achieved.

     (2) Promote human capital formation of poor children by increasing regular
         check-ups, for growth monitoring, and other services, and by increasing
         enrollment and school attendance (basic and/or secondary education).

There were four indicators related to this objective again with data drawn from the
comparisons between the control and treatment groups from the impact evaluation
covering both health and education. In the case of health, the program showed a positive
impact on the treatment group for two measures. There was an increase of 0.215
standard deviations (Z score) in height for age for children under 5 as well as an increase
of 8.4 percentage points in the share of children in the “normal? range in the height for
age measure. The program also showed a positive impact on the use of preventive health
services by children of 11.2 percentage points. The program also showed a positive
effect of 4.2 percentage points on the share of children with the complete DPT
vaccination. For both attendance at health services and the DPT vaccination there is a
puzzling decline for both control and treatment groups.10

The other set of indicators relates to education. Given the issues related to the small
sample size for the household survey based impact evaluation, the results reported in the
data sheet are from the SISBEN census methodology. Positive results of the program are
found for school attendance (an outcome indicator for the project) as well as for several
other indicators. For attendance, increases are seen for program participants compared to
the control group for all schemes and localities, ranging from 2 percentage points for
boys in the savings scheme in Bogotá to 13.5 percentage points for boys in the
incremental scheme. With the exception of Bogotá, results are higher for boys. Program
participation also increases years of schooling attained by an average of a high of 0.5


10
  The decline may be due to the fact that the age group analyzed includes older children (up to
age 14 years), while the condition related to health check-ups applies only to children below 7.
Also the protocols for health visits require much fewer visits for older children and most
vaccinations take place at younger ages.



                                                12
years in the case of the incremental scheme to 0.18 years in the case of Bogotá, with
higher results for the 11-12 year old group. The share of students (11-16 at the baseline)
with timely school progression increases from a range of 6 percentage points in the case
of Bogotá to 10.3 percentage points for the incremental scheme. The program has a
positive impact on 9th grade graduation rates ranging from about 6 percentage points in
the case of the savings scheme in both Bogotá and other cities, to 9.2 percentage points in
the incremental scheme. No results can be reported for secondary school drop-outs as
this information is not included in the SISBEN.

The results (ITT) from the impact evaluation comparing the baseline and follow-up
sample of treatment and control households show a positive impact only for graduation
rates for 9th grade of 0.9 percentage points. A breakdown of these results by the type of
transfer scheme shows a positive impact (1.3 percentage points) only for the incremental
scheme. TOT estimates are somewhat stronger, showing positive impacts of program
participation on years of schooling attained, 9th grade graduation rates, and one estimate
of enrollment. Based on the positive results for four indicators in the case of health
and for indicators on attendance, school progression and 9th grade graduation rates
in the case of education, the assessment is that the objective of promoting human
capital formation of children was achieved. It is important to stress that for
education, this judgment is based almost entirely on the SISBEN census
methodology results. The survey results are much weaker, at least in part because
of insufficient sample size. In addition, no impacts could be estimated for high
school dropout or 11th grade graduation rates, although positive results had been
expected.

       (3)- Strengthen program quality

Three indicators are used to measure progress on strengthening program quality. The
first indicator is the take-up rate or the share of eligible families participating in the
program. At the time of project appraisal, there was concern that the take-up rate had
dropped as the program had expanded more into urban areas. While some decline was to
be expected in larger urban areas and was observed in other CCT programs in Latin
America, it was expected that improvements in the registration process, as well as a move
towards a more continuous registration process (instead of periodic “one shot? events)
would help to raise participation rates, although no specific target was set. As it turned
out, the overall take up rate remained virtually unchanged at 61.6 percent compared to the
baseline figure of 62.1 percent and a move to a more continuous registration process was
postponed. The speed of the expansion may have been one factor that worked against
efforts to improve the participation rate of the program, although it could also be argued
that maintaining the previous take-up rate in the face of an expansion of nearly 60 percent
in the program can be considered reasonable performance. Compared to the baseline,
there was a slight increase in the take-up rate for large municipalities, while the rate of
participation dropped for small municipalities.

Analysis done in the context of the knowledge and convening services of the Bank
showed that some gaps in the participation of the extreme poor could be addressed



                                            13
through the outreach efforts of the Red Unidos and that higher pro-activity and
commitment to the program by municipal authorities could raise take-up. Lack of
information, the short time frame for gathering the necessary documentation, the high
opportunity cost for the employed, and the cost of transportation were factors that
affected take-up in large cities.11 Some of these factors were echoed in the qualitative
companion piece to the urban impact evaluation where work was carried out in Bogota.
There was evidence of faulty information, lack of credibility, and the negative effects of
long lines to register and travel distances. Encouraging, those interviewed thought that
the 2009 registration process was better than earlier ones. These findings show the
importance of incorporating more out-reach activities in the program, improving
coordination mechanisms with the Red Unidos, and modifying the registration process,
particularly moving towards a more continuous one. See Annex 2 for more discussion.

The other indicators measure the share of families complying with the health and
education conditions. Although no specific targets were set, the implicit assumption is
that compliance rates would improve to some extent given the planned efforts of the
program to streamline verification processes. Of course, the major expansion of the
Program changed the context for these indicators significantly. In the case of health,
during 2009-2008 there was a slight decline (7 percent) in the share of families meeting
the conditions in health (Annex 2 contains annual figures), but performance worsened
substantially in 2011, falling from 91.7 percent at the baseline to only 70.8 percent. The
reason for the sharp deterioration in 2011 is not clear. Performance in larger
municipalities and particularly large cities was worse, implying that more efforts are
needed to promote compliance in these areas. In the case of education, trends on
compliance with the school attendance condition show a drop from the baseline figure of
71.9 percent of all school-aged children participating in the program to 66.8 percent in
2009 and to 64.2 percent in 2010. Efforts of the program in the area of school enrollment,
improved the rate to 68 percent by 2011, although still below the baseline.

The intermediate outcome indicators were intended to monitor key operational
procedures of the program relating to five specific areas (management of the beneficiary
registry, training for program participants, quality of the verification process, efficiency
of the payment process, and the effectiveness of control and accountability measures).
Specific targets were not set for these indicators because it is difficult to consider all of
the factors which may affect performance (positively and negatively). The purpose is
rather to monitor the attention and management follow-up on important aspects of the
program such as the beneficiary registry, key business processes, and the supporting MIS.
Results are presented in the data sheet with annual figures for selected indicators
available in Table 2.3 in Annex 2. The PAD also discusses several areas for which the
project would support quality improvements in the program and challenges being faced
by the program. Table 2.2 in Annex 2 summarizes the advances achieved. More broadly,


11
  Studies in the US suggest that take up is enhanced by automatic or default enrollment and
lowered by administrative barriers. Transaction costs are important. The take-up rate for the
Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, comparable in some respects to Familias en Acción, is
between 60-90 percent depending on the state.


                                             14
the program was trying to develop an effective design for operating in both large cities
and in low capacity localities and to develop a role within the Red Unidos.

Considering all of the evidence presented, performance on improving program quality
was mixed, perhaps reflecting the challenges of operating an even larger program than
was envisaged at the time of appraisal and the challenges of an expansion in urban areas.
The assessment is that the objective of improving program quality was partially
achieved. Substantial advances were made to improve the MIS, which also enabled
progress to be made in several other areas. Better controls applied to the beneficiary
registry are likely to have eliminated inclusion errors. But there was no progress in
addressing exclusion errors, identified as the more critical issue in the PAD and
institutional arrangements between the Red Unidos and Familias were problematic. In
retrospect, a better alignment with the Red Unidos and its strategy of outreach to the
extreme poor, might have enabled the program to make progress in this area, and indeed
is now planned by the government.

The program was successful in streamlining verification procedures, but surprisingly this
is not reflected in the trends on the share of families complying with the health and
education conditions. Social accountability mechanisms are now stronger, standards
have been raised, and monitoring improved. In order to address problems in low capacity
areas, the program is increasing its involvement with the local health and education
authorities. The program has increased its collaboration with health and education
authorities at the national levels, a positive development. Challenges remain to develop
an effective design for operating in large cities as compliance rates in these localities still
lag substantially the average. It is still not clear to what extent the key strengths of the
rural operational design – for example, the role of the madre lideres and the municipality
– work equally well in large cities.

3.3 Efficiency

A new economic analysis to estimate the impact of the program on human capital
accumulation and poverty reduction was not carried out during appraisal. Instead the
PAD reviewed the results of the existing impact evaluation of Familas (and similar
interventions), including a cost-benefit analysis. The expectation of positive results was
based on earlier evidence from impact evaluations of the Familias program in rural areas
and small municipalities, preliminary results in urban areas, and the decision of the
program to modify the transfer structure to focus on improvements in secondary, not
primary education. The updating of the monetization of the results in large cities as well
as costs is well beyond the scope of this ICR (and was not envisaged in the PAD), but the
results of the impact evaluation in large cities can be compared with the basis for the
previous calculation of the benefits of the program.

In general, the evidence of performance on the indicators from the impact evaluation of
the program in urban areas confirms those initial assumptions. The program had a
substantial impact in education, concentrated as expected at the secondary school level.
In addition, positive impacts are seen in reducing malnutrition and the prevalence of
acute respiratory disease among the young children of beneficiary families and in


                                              15
increasing the utilization of health services as well as vaccination coverage. Based on
that evidence it seems likely that the conclusion that the program has a positive benefit
cost ratio would generally hold for large cities even in the absence of precise calculations.
The main aspects of program design and implementation that would have tended to
reduce efficiency would be the 60 percent take-up rate, the lack of progress in reducing
exclusion errors, the lack of knowledge of the majority of participants on the details of
the “savings? modality of education transfers, as well as the declines (and the relatively
low performance in large cities) in family compliance with health and education
conditions.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The evidence from the impact evaluation shows that Familias improved
consumption and human capital formation of children in large cities, achieving
these two objectives. Outcomes on the third objective of improving program quality
were partially achieved. Performance on the outcome indicators related to compliance
of participant families with the health and education conditions fell in spite of the
program’s efforts to streamline the verification process. It is important to note that in the
case of large cities, lower compliance does not appear to have been sufficient to eliminate
the positive results on the final outcomes related to consumption and human capital
formation.     There was mixed performance in the areas identified for quality
improvements in the PAD. Based on the achievements of the first two objectives and
taking into account the major expansion not anticipated at the time the project was
prepared, the overall outcome rating is judged satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

According to the results of the impact evaluation in large cities, Familias lowered
extreme poverty rates as measured by income by 7.5 percentage points (significant at the
1 percent level). Similar to the trends previously discussed on consumption, the rates of
extreme poverty rose for both the control and treatment groups, but less for the latter.12

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project contributed to improvements in the capacity of the National Coordination of
the program within Acción Social, the agency responsible for the implementation of



12
  Estimates for TOT effects are 9 pp (significant at the 1 percent level), with the treatment group
showing a small decline in rates of extreme poverty in contrast to increases for the control group.



                                                16
Familias. The technical assistance and support provided by the World Bank helped
strengthen several areas and processes. Familias has developed a comprehensive
operational structure supported by more robust mechanisms to run program processes.
First, the program has improved the quality of information and tackled inconsistencies in
the databases used for the registration of beneficiaries, SISBEN and SIPOD. Second, the
MIS and the controls and accountability systems continued to be consolidated while
incorporating new modules. For example, operational audits, spot checks, and a systems
audit of the MIS were carried out and the information generated was used for program
improvements. Third, during project implementation Familias managed the efforts to
open personal bank accounts for nearly 86 percent of beneficiaries as a means to increase
the financial inclusion of poor families. This is helping to reduce delays in the payment
process as well as to increase transparency and lower transaction costs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

During the over ten years of implementation of Familias, the government has
strengthened processes and carried out a series of impact and other types of evaluation.
Because of this experience, Colombia, in particular the National Coordination of the
Program, has been an active participant and host of numerous south-south exchanges on
CCT programs, some of which have been facilitated by the World Bank. These
interchanges are likely to continue in the future.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

Familias already has a proven record of contributing to poverty reduction and human
capital formation. The program continues to play a central role in improving the safety
net in Colombia and is generally well regarded by the population and local authorities.
The risk to development outcome in the Project is negligible to low primarily because the
impact evaluation for urban areas has confirmed the program’s positive impact on the key
outcome indicators. Government ownership and commitment are demonstrated by the
fact that financing of Familias has been assured primarily through national resources
since 2011. The new Government has indicated its intention to maintain the program,
even considering a small expansion. At the same time, the program is going through a
necessary re-design, including more effective integration of the program with the
centerpiece of the current Government social promotion strategy – the Red Juntos/Unidos.
The Bank provided technical assistance in this area and has been asked by the
Government to continue providing advice.




                                           17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is considered moderately
satisfactory for the following reasons. The Bank had long been involved in supporting the
strengthening of the social protection system and other related areas in Colombia through
a variety of instruments, including technical assistance, investment and development
policy lending, and analytical work. Lessons from previous projects were considered and
incorporated in the project design. During preparation, the Bank team was broad based,
incorporating expertise from staff and consultants with experience in conditional cash
transfers in the Latin America region. The project’s design responded to the priorities of
the Borrower in tackling poverty and inequality through an expanded Familias Program
and strengthening its operational processes. The Bank advocated key objectives,
including the improvement of the MIS and operational indicators. Project preparation
and design satisfactorily addressed social development aspects, carrying out a social
assessment and supporting the preparation of an IPP which would provide the basis for
the expansion of the program into indigenous communities. Monitoring and evaluation
arrangements built on the MIS in place and responded to the new challenge of operating
in urban areas.

However, there was one moderate shortcoming, an oversight in the procurement analysis
related to the contract for banking commissions. Although the Bank (and the IADB)
provided the no objection to the bidding document, the estimated size of the contract
(US$44 million) was not taken into account, in part because the quotes were to be
presented as unit costs per transfer. Given the estimated size of the contract, higher
levels of authorization (Regional Procurement Advisor and OPRC) should have been
involved earlier in the bidding process, according to Bank guidelines. In addition, the
Bank underestimated the complications involved in this bidding process, particularly the
implications of the regional grouping into different lots and the addition of the
requirement to open bank accounts for all program participants. In retrospect, the Bank
team should have enlisted specialist advice earlier in the process. Instead, specialist
advice was only brought in after the bidding process had been concluded and it was
necessary to do a market study.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

 The Bank’s performance during supervision is rated satisfactory for the following
reasons. The Bank team carried out six supervision missions, all in coordination with the
IADB. Regular financial management supervision was also carried out. ISRs were
prepared regularly and were candid in bringing to the attention of management critical
issues such as the decision of the Government to expand the program, difficulties with


                                           18
the bidding process for banking services, the design and timing of the impact evaluation,
and the need for improved coordination arrangements between Juntos and Familias.
Since the performance of most of the outcome indicators were derived from the impact
evaluation, ISR monitoring focused on the indicators (both outcome and intermediate)
related to the operation of the program. Themes covered in the supervision missions
included the process of program expansion, particularly in indigenous communities,
improvements in the systems for verification and handling complaints, the results and
follow-up of the system audit, the figures on compliance with education responsibilities,
the process of bancarización, coordination with the health and education sectors, and the
revised targeting instrument.     At the request of the Borrower, the Bank devoted
considerable resources to providing advice and recommendations on how to better
integrate Juntos and Familias to help bring about a more sustainable and effective social
promotion strategy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking into account the two moderate shortcomings identified in the Bank’s performance
in ensuring quality at entry, overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower’s performance is considered satisfactory, from preparation through
completion. Government ownership and commitment to achieving the development
objectives was demonstrated by the decision to expand further the program in 2009.
Project objectives were closely aligned to the goals of the NDP (2006-2010).
Discussions on the testing of different transfer schemes, the impact evaluation in urban
areas, implication for the program of revisions in the targeting instrument and changes in
the operational manual were closely coordinated between the Department of National
Planning and Acción Social. Results from impact evaluations and other analyses were
used for decision making. Although there were delays in the impact evaluation and the
methodology had to be revised, in the end, an acceptable evaluation was carried out and
delivered. One shortcoming was that in the context of the new administration which
took office in 2011, decisions on how to integrate Familias better with Juntos (re-called
Unidos) – the centerpiece of the social promotion strategy in the updated NDP (2010-
2014) - lagged, as did measures to resolve the different approaches being proposed by
different institutions and actors.



(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory


                                            19
Acción Social through the National Coordination Unit of Familias was responsible for
project implementation. The agency was highly committed to the objectives of Familias
and key staff members were capable and stable in their positions. Consultations with
stakeholders, primarily with mayors and indigenous communities, were on the whole
satisfactory. The project was ready for implementation because it was already in
operation. Disbursement performance was close to target. The closing date was
extended by one year to December 31, 2011, primarily in order to carry out the follow-up
survey and analysis for the impact evaluation. Fiduciary management is judged
moderately satisfactory because the agency signed the contract for banking services
before receiving the no objection of the Bank. Semi-annual reports on the program were
received by the Bank as required and on a timely basis. During the project, the National
Coordination Unit took several specific steps to improve the quality of the program such
as making improvements in the MIS, following up on the recommendations of the
systems audit, and better integrating the various modules. The National Coordination
Unit also deepened its relationship with sectors such as education and health, particularly
in municipalities with lagging performance. Agency handling of reimbursement requests
was satisfactory. Monitoring information was used pro-actively to improve the program
and follow-up with remedial measures in lagging areas. The agency maintained close
working relations with both the IADB and the Bank.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:

Overall Borrower Performance is considered satisfactory in view of the Government and
the Implementing Agencies’ performance.

6. Lessons Learned

         A systems audit is useful for identifying areas that need to be improved in the
          MIS. The results of the systems audit were available during the first year of
          project implementation. Its results were important in confirming the overall
          acceptable functioning of the MIS, and also in identifying several areas where
          improvement was needed. The results of this systems audit laid out the work plan
          for strengthening the MIS during project implementation. In addition, the
          program asked the same firm which had undertaken the systems audit to provide
          advice on the best way to integrate the different systems. In programs where the
          MIS is critical to operational procedures, carrying out a systems audit should be
          incorporated into fiduciary management.
         Contracting for banking services needs to be informed by knowledge of the
          market. Some of the problems that were encountered in procurement of banking
          services might have been avoided if more discussions had been held with the
          banking sector prior to preparing the bidding documents and launching the
          process. It turned out that the way the lots were organized reduced the possibility
          of competition, which was the goal of the process.




                                              20
      Good public communication of program rules is important. The testing of the
       effectiveness of different transfer schemes was weakened by the fact that even
       after two years of implementation, most beneficiaries did not understand the
       structures and in particular did not understand that enrollment in 10th grade or
       graduation would result in the receipt of bonuses. This reduced the impact of the
       incentives. Public Information strategies should have been stronger and the
       Program should have taken actions to ensure that a larger share of beneficiaries
       understood the structure that applied to them.
      Use of administrative data bases for impact evaluation are cost effective. In
       addition to a methodology based on household survey of control and treatment
       groups, the impact evaluation also made creative use of the administrative data on
       the targeting instrument to measure impact on education outcomes. Having a
       larger data base enabled the analysis to identify effects which were not possible to
       measure using the smaller sample available in the household surveys. Another
       advantage is the low cost. The experience of this project is that administrative
       data bases should be considered for the purposes of monitoring and evaluation.
      Design of sample for impact evaluation needs to be informed by expected
       effects. The impact evaluation carried out under the project was limited by the
       fact that the size of the sample was not sufficient to measure several of the
       outcomes which were of particular interest in education. In retrospect, the sample
       could have been more purposively chosen to ensure that it included children of
       the ages of interest (in secondary school or who would enter secondary school
       soon). This problem was addressed partially by the use of administrative data for
       the targeting instrument (SISBEN).




7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners



(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In addition to preparing a completion report (See Annex 7), the Borrower made
comments on the document drafted by Bank staff. These comments have been reflected
in the document. In regards to the comment in Section 3.2 on exclusion errors, the
Borrower responded that the Program continued to work to improve the accuracy of
beneficiary identification and to minimize both inclusion and exclusion errors. These
efforts include improvements in the targeting instrument (SISBEN) and the identification
of the cut-off points in collaboration with DNP staff. It also has been decided to
incorporate into the Program families who are in the Red Unidos, and are eligible, but not
participating in Familias.




                                           21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Estimated and Actual Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                               Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 Consolidation and Expansion of
                                       2009-2010        2009-2011
the Familias Program.
 (a) Subsidies                          731.2           2,153.3            295%
 (b) Bank Commissions                    44.2             337.8            764%
 (c) Administrative costs               N/A                56.6            100%
 (d) Impact ev., audit, studies           0.8                .9            113%

            Total Baseline Cost             776.2           2,548.6         400%
Physical Contingencies
                                       None                 None             N/A
Price Contingencies
                                       None                 None             N/A
            Total Project Costs         776.2               2,548.6         328%
     Total Financing Required           776.2               2,548.6         328%




(b) Estimated and Actual Financing (USD millions)
                                                        Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                 Source of Funds                         Estimate        Estimate
                                                        2009-2010       2009-2011
Borrower                                                                  1,660.6
                                                    139.7
  Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF)                            209.3
  Other                                                                   1,451.3
International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                    636.5                  636.5
Development
Inter American Development Bank                     N/A                     251.5
Total                                               776.2                  2548.6

Note: At the request of the Borrower, the estimated financing from the Inter-American
Development Bank was not included in the PAD because the figures had not been
negotiated. The much higher than expected actual expenses in the area of subsidies
reflect the expansion of the program during 2009 as well as the one year extension of the
project. The higher than expected costs for bank commissions reflect the higher than
expected amount received from the sole bidder and the extension of the project.




                                               22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project had one component – Consolidation and Expansion of the Familias en
Acción program. This annex contains additional detailed information on outputs in
several areas: the expansion of the program, evidence on targeting performance, and
details on progress on the improvements in program quality which were to be addressed
by the project. This is followed by sections on the registration process (which relates to
the proposed quality improvement of reducing exclusion errors) and the process of
opening bank accounts for beneficiaries. This improvement was not described in the
PAD, but was an important initiative of the program during project implementation. The
annex concludes with a table which presents the results on the intermediate indicators for
the project which focused on the functioning of several of the program’s operating
procedures, including the identification of beneficiaries who no longer were eligible for
the program, the resolution of complaints, and the monitoring of performance of localities
in managing the program.

Expansion of Familias. During appraisal, the program covered roughly 1.7 million
families. In late 2008, the Government decided to quickly expand the program by
registering new SISBEN 1 families with the objective of reaching 3 million families. By
early 2010 2.7 million households (including the displaced) were receiving benefits. This
expansion of the program was much larger than what the Government and the Bank
envisioned during project preparation. Registration was discontinued in 2010 and since
then only displaced families can join the program at anytime. Presently 394,000 displaced
families are part of the program (14 percent of the total). Figures 2.1 and 2.2 provide
details on the trends in the growth of the program during the project, as well as the
composition between different groups.




                                           23
                  Figure 2.1: Recent Expansion of Familias en Acción




          Source: Familias program data. Includes SISBEN1, displaced, and indigenous families.




              Figure 2.2: Registration in Familias en Acción, by Groups




        Source: Familias program data, 2008-2010



Targeting Performance. The revised SISBEN targeting tool remained the main
instrument used to identify new beneficiaries. Household data from 2008 confirmed that
Familias is fairly effective in reaching poor households. Nearly 82 percent of
beneficiaries are in the two lowest income quintiles and the percentage of families in the
program falls increasingly for the highest quintiles. Nonetheless, the number of eligible
families who are not receiving benefits is very high, that being the case for 58 percent of
families with children aged 0-17 in the poorest income decile.




                                                24
           Table 2.1: Distribution of Beneficiaries by Consumption Group
                                          % of families receiving FA 
                                         Families with children 0?17 
                     Quintile    All     National      Urban  Rural 
                        1        35        39            37        44 
                        2        19        24            21        34 
                        3           9      12            11        24 
                        4           3       5             5        15 
                        5           1       2             2        11 
                   Source: Araujo and Beazley. “Caracterización de los beneficiarios
                   de Familias en Acción?, based on ECV 2008.

Household surveys also reveal that coverage between regions varies greatly. While in the
Orinoquia-Amazonia region 67 percent of families in the lowest quintile are in the
program, in San Andres only 14 percent in the same income group receive benefits. One
of the reasons that might explain the low coverage is that the relatively short registration
process and the cost of participating, among other design features, operate as entry
barriers for the poorest families.

Strengthening program quality: The PAD discusses several areas for which the project
would support quality improvements in the program. The PAD also mentions several
challenges being faced by the program during the time period covered by the project.
The following table describes the advances achieved in these areas during project
implementation and provides information to substantiate the rating on the third PDO to
strengthen program quality.

    Table 2.2: Progress on Implementing Improvements in Program Quality and
                              Addressing Challenges

             Area                                  Status as of December 31, 2011
Improve Management Information           The findings of the systems audit were available
System                                   during the first half of 2009. The report confirmed
                                         many strengths of the MIS, but also areas for
                                         improvement. Examples of the latter which were
                                         remedied by the Program included: strengthening
                                         the procedures and controls over data changes,
                                         including suing standard menu options;
                                         incorporating consistency and validation checks on
                                         information provided by participants such as ID
                                         numbers; improving the controls and monitoring
                                         of the response time for complaints; exploring
                                         ways to link the different data bases; automatizing
                                         the payment systems and linking with the
                                         complaints module for back payments; and


                                               25
               Area                          Status as of December 31, 2011
                                   managing strictly the codes and passwords for
                                   entry to the system. Based on additional systems
                                   audit work requested by the Program, the different
                                   systems with the MIS have been linked, including
                                   the system for verification which previously had
                                   been outsourced.
Reduce both inclusion and          The program adapted the registration process to
exclusion errors                   urban areas to increase take-up rates. A new web
                                   system was developed to replace the old manual
                                   registration process. This has helped reduce the
                                   average registration time. (See also section below
                                   on program participation)
Streamline verification of         After the large expansion into urban areas, the
compliance with conditionalities   program developed new mechanisms for the
                                   verification of conditionalities. This includes mass
                                   verification, certification cards, vouchers, and
                                   smart cards.
                                   Familias is also working on a new application that
                                   will register not only the assistance to health
                                   controls but also the type of services that
                                   beneficiaries receive at the health centers.
Improve channels for complaints    A new module was added to make automatic the
and appeals                        adjustments to payments (credit or debit) based on
                                   the resolution of the complaint. The system
                                   improved related document management.
                                   Monitoring of the response time started. Efforts
                                   were also made to simplify the formats to make
                                   them easier to understand. In 2010 the program
                                   organized spot checks to determine problems and
                                   challenges in the operation of the complaints and
                                   appeals mechanisms.
Develop an Effective Design for    The MIS shows that the program was fairly
Program Operation in Large Urban   successful in ensuring that eligible beneficiaries
Areas                              received their bonus with at least 70 percent
                                   coverage during 2008-2010. This has been a
                                   problem in other CCT programs. However, the
                                   communication strategy, particularly relating to the
                                   somewhat complicated structures, needs to be
                                   reinforced if the incentives are to work as
                                   designed. The registration process also needs to be
                                   re-thought to incorporate more out-reach and to
                                   make it easier for poor families to join the
                                   programs (see section below on program
                                   participation for more details).




                                        26
              Area                                        Status as of December 31, 2011
Meet Demands of Operating                       The program prioritized departments that showed a
Program in Low Capacity                         low level of compliance on various indicators
Localities                                      during more than one period and organized
                                                meetings with the local authorities as well as
                                                representatives from the sectors involved in the
                                                operation of Familias. These “mesas temáticas?
                                                discussed, inter allia, the level of coverage of the
                                                program in the department, the local capacity of
                                                health and education services to respond to an
                                                increase in demand, and the operational rules.
Develop Role of Familias within                 Little progress was made to align the two
the Red Juntos (now Unidos)                     programs or to take advantage of potential
                                                synergies as had been envisaged at the time of
                                                project appraisal. In fact, in order to improve its
                                                coverage of the extreme poor, the Red Unidos
                                                moved from a strategy of using Familias as its
                                                entry point, to one of trying to reach extremely
                                                poor families who for some reason were not
                                                registered in Familias. However, these families
                                                did not receive the cash transfer associated with
                                                Familias. The Government has recently taken a
                                                decision that any eligible family in Unidos who is
                                                not a participant will be enrolled in Familias.



Program Participation (take-up). Registration by SISBEN 1 families has been low in
municipalities with a population over 100,000, particularly in large cities, despite the
efforts made to increase their participation. In 2009 take-up rates slightly increased in
large urban areas, although it is still below participation in rural areas, which suggests
that the program needs to address exclusion or type 1 errors.13 In Bogotá, the take-up rate
was only 28 percent. The following table presents the composition of beneficiaries in the
program by size of municipality, showing that in spite of the expansion to larger
municipalities, the program remains focused on smaller municipalities.




13
  Type 1 errors occur if a truly eligible individual does not apply for benefits or if truly eligible individuals
apply for benefits and are rejected.



                                                      27
                  Figure 2.3: Beneficiaries, by Type of Municipality




        Source: Familias program data, 2008-2010



In 2009, Familias with the support of the World Bank, carried out a study on the
registration rates in five urban areas. These five cities used a combination of different
communication tools to reach families during the registration periods. Registration to the
program ranged from 76.6 percent in Barranquilla to 30.0 percent in Manizales, a smaller
urban area. One of the explanations for the high take-up in Barranquilla is that the
municipality sent letters signed by the governor to each SISBEN 1 household informing
of dates and times of registration. Among the reasons given by eligible families for not
joining the program were the lack of information, the short time frame for gathering all
the required documentation, the high opportunity cost for those employed, and the cost of
transportation. The study offered several recommendations for increasing registration
rates, namely:(i) developing guidelines for municipalities according to their size to
improve logistics before and during registration periods; (ii) having longer registration
periods and extending them to weekends; and (iii) having a follow-up registration period
for those families that did not register during the first call.

Bancarization. In early 2009 the program started opening savings accounts to
beneficiaries in order to improve the payments process and to increase poor families’
access to financial services. As of the end of 2010, 2.3 million families were receiving
their payments through a bank account, which accounts for over 90 percent of the
households in the program. Over the next six months, Familias is looking to extend the
opening of accounts to all beneficiaries, especially those living in 229 remote
municipalities where the bancarization process has not arrived yet. The program is also
offering training to mothers to improve their financial literacy and incentive savings. The
benefits Familias expects to achieve through bancarization include: (a) substantially


                                              28
reduce the time beneficiaries spend waiting to get paid in banks; (b) eliminate the refund
of non-collected transfers to the treasury; (c) reduce risks in the financial process; and (d)
improve security of the payment process; among others.

                 Figure 2.4: Evolution of Payments to Bank Accounts




Source: Familias en Acción (2011)

Performance on Intermediate Outcome Indicators

Table 2.3 provides information on the intermediate outcome indicators, which were
intended to measure the program’s operational performance in several areas including the
management of the beneficiary registry: (1), the organization of training for participants
(2), the quality of the process of verifying compliance on the health and education
conditions (3 and 4), the efficiency of the payments process (5 and 6), and the
effectiveness of control and accountability mechanisms (7). A summary of the main
trends and contributing factors appears follows for each topic.

Management of Beneficiary Registry. Improvements in the MIS discussed earlier
supported a tighter control over the beneficiary registry, reflected in the higher number of
families dropped from the program in 2011. Beginning in 2010, the program started
undertaking a standard set of cross-checks with other data bases as well as internal
consistency checks before making payments. In addition, consistent with national policy,
the program insisted on the registration of ID numbers for children. .

Training for Program Participants. As part of the program model, workshops are
organized for the participants on different topics, including healthy practices, education,
and early childhood development. Outcomes were significantly influenced by the timing
of elections (municipal in 2010 and national in 2011) because in the run-up to the
elections, no large gatherings are organized by the program. As result although was a



                                             29
large increase in the share of participants receiving training relative to the baseline, there
was a drop-off in the last two years of project implementation.

Quality of the Verification Process. Beneficiaries reporting problems with the
verification process are low. At the level of municipalities, the program monitored
performance in every payment cycle, identifying sets of municipalities which deviated
from the norm in order to carry out remedial actions as necessary.

Efficiency of the Payment Process. The share of eligible families who actually received
their payment dropped from the baseline levels in all localities initially, probably as a
result of the rapid expansion of the program. However, thereafter performance increased
and by the end of the project, rates of payment receipt were nearly 4 percent above the
baseline figure. Several factors are likely to have contributed to the improvement,
including the gradual move towards paying participants through bank accounts (see
Figure 2.4) as well as the improvements in the MIS which included making the payment
system a more automatic business process. An intermediate indicator of municipalities in
red or yellow alert on the payment process was also included, but in practice, this was not
part of the MIS. Instead for each payment cycle, the program identified localities with
higher or lower than average changes in the value of payments and sought explications
for the trend.

Effectiveness of Control and Accountability Mechanisms. Improvements were also
made in the processes related to the handling of complaints. The control over documents
was improved and more procedures more automatic. The program also tried to make
these procedures more understand to the participants and simplified formats. There is
also careful monitoring of the time period to provide an answer and the standard for
response has been reduced from 30 to 15 days.

                    Table 2.3: Annual Trends in Selected Indicators

Indicator                               2009             2010               2011
Number of families who comply in
health, as a percentage of the total    (1)85.5          (1)85.5%           (1)70.8%
number of families beneficiaries of     (2) 77.0%        (2)90.9%           (2)79.3%
the health transfer: (Total), (2)       (3)79.5%         (3)85.8%           (3)66.3%
small municipalities, (3) large         (4) 85.5%        (4)73.9            (4)56.5%
municipalities, and (4) large cities.
(1)Withdrawal: Number of families                        143,669*           153,092
removed from the program and                              75%               45% non-
reason                                                      children           payment for
                                                            exceed age         3 cycles
                                                            limit            30% non-
                                                          10%        for      compliance
                                                            double             with
                                                            inscription        conditions
                                                          8%                19%


                                               30
Indicator                                   2009               2010             2011
                                                                   inscribed in     children
                                                                   2 families       exceed age
                                                                                    limit
(2)Training: % of beneficiaries 102%                           43.0%            38.5%
having received training from the (54,596)                     (35,741)         (31,420)
Program (No. of Workshops)

(3)Difficulties in process of control
(verification): % of beneficiaries
reporting difficulties, by type14
     Health                                           0.4%
     Education                                        4.1%
(4)Alerts in process of control: 120                   120               120
number of municipalities in yellow municipalities municipalities         municipalities
or red alert
(5)Payment: Number of families (1)90.9%                93.9%             98.0%
paid, as a share of families (2)92.3%                  94.3%             98.1%
complying           with          their (3)90.2%       93.6%             97.6%
responsibilities for (1) Total, (2) (4)86.5%           92.7%             97.9%
small municipalities, (3) large
municipalities; and (4) large urban
centers.
(6)Alerts in process of payment: N/A                   N/A               N/A
Number of municipalities in yellow
or red alert
(7)Complaints
     Number                            22,871         73,432            35,094
     % addressed in less than 15                      92.6%
        working days
*Consolidated figures for 2007-2010. Between 2007-2010, program did not drop
families for reasons of non-payment for 3 cycles nor for non-compliance with conditions
because they did not believe operational procedures nor MIS sufficiently robust.




14
  Information comes from reports of periodic monitoring of how the procedures of the program are
working at the local level, not from the MIS, so not available on an annual basis.



                                                   31
               Table 2.4 Trends in Compliance with Education Conditions


                     % of Children         % of Enrolled          Adjusted % of
                       Enrolled           Meeting Condition         Children
                                                                   Complying
                 2009    2010    2011   2009    2010    2011   2009 2010 2011
Small munis      77.3    70.9    72.1   92.9    95.3    94.3   71.8 67.6 68.0
Large munis      72.8    67.2    69.2   91.3    94.8    93.4   66.5 63.7 64.6
Large cities     79.5    71.1    62.8   87.3    93.9    92.6   69.4 66.8 58.2
Total            72.8    67.6    72.4   91.8    95.0    93.9   66.8 64.2 68.0




                                         32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic analysis draws on the results of the impact evaluation of Familias in large
cities which was undertaken to assess the effects of the program in those localities on the
main outcome indicators. The impact evaluation also included measurements for other
results related to the main objectives of the program as well as other areas.

The main objectives of the program are to improve the living conditions and human
capital investment of poor households. At the time of project appraisal, the expected
beneficiaries of the program were nearly 4 million children living in 1.7 million poor
households throughout Colombia. In fact nearly 5 million children benefited from the
program given the expansion which took place mainly during 2009. The economic
analysis is organized as follows. The first section compares the results of the impact
evaluation for large cities with the impacts achieved by the program in rural areas and
small municipalities. The analysis in the PAD discussed the factors that needed to be
taken into account in order to extrapolate these results for the project. First, the results of
the program in rural areas and small municipalities were achieved between 2002 and
2005. Since the time which had passed before the start of the project was relatively short,
it was considered unlikely that major changes would have occurred that would change
dramatically the direction of these effects. Second, international evidence suggests that
CCTs have greater impacts (both on consumption and human capital development) for
the poorest households. In this regard, Familias had maintained use of the targeting
instrument SISBEN, and, in addition to highly urbanized areas (which are generally
speaking not as poor as rural areas), it has incorporated municipalities in disadvantaged
regions (the Pacific Coast, for example) and the Afro-Colombian and indigenous
population, suggesting that these positive impacts should be sustained. The impact
evaluation carried out during project implementation, however, covers only large cities.
Third, in the case of education, impacts tend to be higher when the baseline enrollments
are lower. Colombia took this into account for large urban areas by dropping the
condition for primary education, and reallocating the resources to promote secondary
education. Thus, it was expected to see results mainly for secondary education in large
cities.

The PAD referred to evidence of likely results for urban areas from three sources: the
preliminary results of a pilot carried out in Medellin; results from a program implemented
in the city of Bogota, which included conditions relating to secondary education only;
and the results of ex-ante simulations carried out by the IADB. All of these sources
suggested that the operation of the program in large cities should have positive results,
primarily on indicators related to secondary education.

Finally, the PAD also referred to the results of a detailed benefit-cost analysis which had
been undertaken jointly in conjunction with a previous impact evaluation by the Institute
of Fiscal Studies, Econometria, and Sistemas Especializados de Informacion (IFS et al,
2006). The analysis values benefits of the program through the increased future earnings
that results from: (a) lowered incidence of underweight infants, (b) lowered incidence of
malnutrition and child morbidity among children zero to six year old, and (c) increased



                                              33
years of secondary schooling. The effects of Familias on these outcomes were derived
from the impact evaluations in rural areas and were monetized using evidence from a
variety of sources, discounted, and compared to costs.

The updating of the monetization of the results in large cities as well as costs is well
beyond the scope of this ICR (and was not envisaged in the PAD), but the results of the
impact evaluation in large cities can be compared with the basis for the previous
calculation of the benefits of the program. In general, the evidence of performance on the
indicators from the impact evaluation of the program in urban areas confirms those initial
assumptions. The program had a substantial impact in education, concentrated as
expected at the secondary school level. In addition, positive impacts are seen in reducing
malnutrition and the prevalence of acute respiratory disease among the young children of
beneficiary families and in increasing the utilization of health services as well as
vaccination coverage. Based on that evidence it seems likely that the conclusion that the
program has a positive benefit cost ratio would generally hold for large cities even in the
absence of precise calculations.

    Table 3.2: Comparison of Familias Impacts in Rural Areas and Large Cities

Objective/Indicator             Colombia                      Colombia
                                (rural<100,000)               (large cities)
Consumption levels for
poor households
     Impact on per capita      10%**
        consumption for the
        median household
     Impact on total and                                     US$20/mo
        food spending                                         US$6.7/mo5
Human capital investment
in children
     School enrollment
        and       attendance
        (%pts)
            o Age 8-13          2.1**
            o Age 14-17         5.6***
            o Ages 6-11 at                                    2-13.5**
               baseline
     Child      taken     to
        growth           and
        development
        monitoring (%pts.)
            o <24 months        22.8***
            o 24-48             33.2***
               months
            o >48 months        1.5*
            o 0-14 yrs                                        11.8***


                                            34
Objective/Indicator             Colombia          Colombia
                                (rural<100,000)   (large cities)
       Compliance      with
        DPT       vaccination
        (%pts)
            o <24 months        8.9*
            o 24-48             3.5
                months
            o >48 months        3.2
            o 0-14 yrs                            4.2*
     Height for age z
        score                   .161*
            o <24 months        .011
            o 24-48
                months          .012
            o >48 months
            o <60 months                          .215*
*significant at 10% level
**significant at 5% level
***significant at 1% level




                                           35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                              Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Juan Carlos Alvarez           Sr Counsel                           LEGES
Jairo A. Arboleda             Consultant                           LCSSO
                                                                   LCSHS-
Jorge C. Barrientos           Consultant
                                                                    DPT
                                                                   LCSHS-
Diana Isabel Cardenas         Social Protection Economist
                                                                    DPT
                                                                   LCSHS-
Aline Coudouel                Senior Economist
                                                                    DPT
Numa F. De Magalhaes          Senior Information Officer           MIGCO
Jeannette Estupinan           Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Jose M. Martinez              Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
                                                                   LCSHS-
Maria Claudia Vasquez Alvarez Consultant
                                                                    DPT
Supervision/ICR
                                                                   LCSHS-
Francisco Ochoa               Consultant
                                                                    DPT
                                                                   LCSHS-
Patricia M. Bernedo           Senior Program Assistant
                                                                    DPT
                                                                   LCSHS-
Diana Isabel Cardenas         Social Protection Economist
                                                                    DPT
                                                                   LCSHS-
Aline Coudouel                Senior Economist
                                                                    DPT
Jeannette Estupinan           Sr Financial Management Specia       LCSFM
Jose M. Martinez              Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                                10.82                          90.77
FY08                                7.43                           77.21
FY09                                12.00                          104.4

Total:                              30.25                          272.38
Supervision/ICR
FY09                                5.07                           57.6
FY10                                18.12                          128.7



                                                 36
FY11     21.78        145.3
FY12     25.36        103.2

Total:   70.33        434.8




                 37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


N/A




                                   38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. The main points made in the introduction of the Government’s contribution to
the ICR are:
     Document 3472 (National Council of Economic and Social Policy) approving
       loans from the international financial institutions facilitated long-term
       collaboration with Familias and a mechanism of continuous assessment which
       provided important inputs for its transformation.
     When Ln. 7619 was signed the Program had new challenges: operations in large
       cities; coverage of all municipalities, including those with low capacity; and work
       with indigenous populations.
     The political context during implementation (2009-2011) was marked by the end
       of the Uribe administration and the first year of the Santos administration. The
       Uribe government gave an important impetus to the Program, deciding to expand
       it and to assist new groups (displaced and indigenous), and facilitating attention in
       emergencies during the 2010 winter crisis.
     For the Santos government Familias is an important strategy to reduce poverty.
       The goals of the National Development Plan (NDP) are to improve the targeting
       of social spending and to consolidate the Social Protection System so that it can
       contribute to strengthening and protecting the human capital and income of the
       poor. The government intends to strengthen the Program and has started to
       redesign Familias in order to reflect changes in poverty over the last decade,
       institutional changes, international experience with conditional cash transfer
       programs, and the need to harmonize with other proposals in the NDP.
     There was political support to make Familias a permanent program. In 2011
       Congress considered a proposal “to regulate and embed in law the Familias en
       Accion Program, in order to avoid its disappearance, the elimination of the
       transfers, leaving the extremely poor without protection.? President Santos signed
       Law 1532 on June 7, 2012. The law defines Familias as a program of conditional
       cash transfers which complements the income of the poorest and most vulnerable
       families and places it under the Department for Social Prosperity. The Law
       contains guidelines for targeting, geographic coverage, types of subsidy,
       financing, verification and evaluation, responsibilities of local governments and
       allows a period of 6 months after its approval to define exit conditions.

2. The main points made on program design and implementation of the loan are:
    Because of the good results (education, nutrition, and health) of the Program in
      municipalities of less than 100,000 inhabitants, expansion to large cities was
      considered. It was recognized that the attention to families in rural areas and in
      poor neighborhoods in large cities needed to be different. Also the impacts of the
      transfer might be less in urban areas because of the higher coverage of education
      and health services.
    In spite of the recommendations to enter large cities gradually, the program
      expanded nationally using a scheme of different transfer amounts for SISBEN I
      families in 16 cities. The transfer for primary school was dropped, substituting it


                                            39
       with a nutrition subsidy for those 7-11 years (for non-recipient families of the
       nutrition subsidy for young children), and the transfer for secondary school was
       increased in order to reduce drop-outs in higher grades. There were two
       variations implemented: incremental and saving.
      The impact evaluation for large cities (2011) carried out by the National
       Consultancy Center found positive impacts on the number of years of schooling,
       enrollment rate, health insurance affiliation, and the share of children receiving
       the DPT vaccination as well as a reduction in acute respiratory infections. There
       was evidence of higher labor force participation among Program families. As was
       the case in the earlier evaluation in rural areas and for the displaced, there were
       positive results on household spending. Thanks to the Program, participant
       families increased their requests for credit from financial institutions as well as
       the approvals.
      Other findings and recommendations from the impact evaluation of large cities
       included:
           o Families do not understand the transfer structure, so the Program should
               work to increase knowledge on this and other aspects.
           o The Program should work to increase the attendance of mothers at training
               workshops and to provide nutritional education in order to improve child
               growth and development.
           o The conditions of mothers in large cities needs to be taken into account
               more. Many work making attendance at the workshops difficult. Also the
               organization of workshops may not to be adjusted more in the context of
               large cities.
           o Training to use automatic banking terminals should be increased, as well
               as on financial literacy
           o The verification process needs to be streamlined and improved, including
               by unifying mechanisms in order to reduce the time and cost for mothers.
               Consideration should be given to giving more responsibility to older
               children to documenting verification.
           o The incremental transfer scheme is judged to be better than the savings
               scheme because of the constant competition that youth have with work
               opportunities.
           o There is a gap in pre-school attendance between the poor and the rest of
               the population.
           o Recommended additions to the Program are reproductive health
               workshops for adolescents as well as conditions related to education
               achievement.       The Program should provide additional support to
               secondary school leavers to enable them to access further education.

3. The main points made on sustainability and program redesign are the following:
    In spite of the progress made to reduce poverty, it is not sufficient. Poverty rates
      are still high and Colombia is making slower progress than other countries in the
      region.
    Although economic growth will help the poor, it cannot be the only mechanism to
      reduce poverty and income inequality. There is an important role for programs


                                           40
    targeted to the poor, one of which is conditional cash transfers, which provide
    incentives for human capital accumulation in order to promote social mobility,
    decrease income inequality and sustain poverty reduction. This scheme of
    redistribution plays a double role of reducing current poverty so that families can
    maintain a minimum consumption level as well as contributing to improving the
    conditions for future labor market insertion and incomes. Healthier and better
    educated youth should get better jobs in the formal sector, improve their earnings,
    have access to permanent social protection and escape poverty.
   The goal is to create a system of conditional cash transfers to accompany the life
    cycle of poor and vulnerable individuals, focusing on the stages of highest capital
    accumulation that generate capacities for higher productivity and better future
    connections to the formal labor market. The intention is to maintain the Program,
    as is reflected in the approval of Law 1532, converting it into public policy in
    order to sustain its impacts over the long term.
   During the first half of 2012 the Directorate of Social Income of the
    Administrative Department of Social Prosperity worked to redesign the Program,
    taking into account the direction that conditional cash transfer programs are
    taking in the region and the priorities set out in the NDP. The proposed redesign
    includes the following, among others:
        o Targeting (geographical and population). The aim is to define more
            precisely the beneficiaries, starting from the objectives of the Program and
            trying to maximize the impact of the Program and the efficiency of social
            spending, and to minimize errors of inclusion and exclusion. The target
            population is families below the cut-off score using the revised SISBEN
            instrument, as well as the displaced, indigenous, and participants of the
            Red Unidos . Inclusion of the last group was recommended by the World
            Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. Cut-off points were
            determined in collaboration with the National Planning Department.
        o Human Capital Formation. In the next phase, there will be transfers
            associated with health and nutrition and education with higher levels for
            secondary. In addition, the transition to primary school and first grade
            will be promoted. There will be a focus on early childhood development
            and nutrition in other ways. 4 pilots will test the impact of the Program in
            other areas, including children working in mines, handicapped,
            discouragement of adolescent pregnancy and improvements in nutrition
            quality. These initiatives take into account the recommendations of
            previous evaluations.
        o Training. Through links with another program, efforts will be made to
            promote training and the creation of competencies for employment for the
            youth in Familias who graduate from 11th grade and want to continue their
            studies. This initiative follows from recommendations in previous
            evaluations.
        o Regional Focus: There will be different subsidy levels depending on
            location, determined using the multidimensional poverty index with the
            goal of increasing the Program’s geographic progressivity.




                                        41
      Since the Program can count on high political and legal backing for its future
       operation, the decision has been taken that from now on national budge resources
       will finance the Program. The National Government would approve annually the
       resources to attend all of the families and its operation, in accordance with the
       medium term fiscal framework (Article 8-Law 1532).

4. The main points made by the Government on factors which affected the
operation of the Program during loan implementation are :
    The expansion of coverage was not gradual as recommended in previous
       evaluations. This affected the possibility to carry out an impact evaluation to
       measure the results of the intervention on new populations and in some cases led
       to the contamination of samples in sites previously selected as control groups.
    Only one proposal was received for the bidding process to contract the payment
       of the transfer to families and the opening of banking accounts for them. The
       reasons other banks did not present proposals included that they were not
       interested in having poor families as clients and because the cost to cover isolated
       municipalities was high. Although the multilateral banks provided the no
       objection and authorization for negotiations and it was possible to renegotiate the
       bid without affecting the scope of work, the result did affect what had been
       planned and demonstrated a lack of knowledge on the supply of banking services.
    Although the differences between urban and rural areas, including the
       employment of mothers, costs of transportation, different forms of community
       organization among others, had been taken into account, they still affected the
       promotion strategies. For example, mothers could not dedicate time to attend
       workshops.
    Efforts were made to improve the verification system, making it more flexible to
       take into account different local situations. The expansion of new, more
       streamlined mechanisms for verification was an important challenge, given the
       distances, number of beneficiaries and dispersion of health centers and schools.
       Nevertheless, there continues to be evidence of difficulties, such as the lack of
       commitment on the part of health and education services, which means that the
       responsibility still falls on the Program and the participant. There have also been
       some issues with the verification of the authenticity of some documents. In the
       case of Bogota, the processes and operation of the Program need to be defined
       with the new administration.

5. The main points made on the performance of the implementing agency are:
    The Program was carried out in the context of the implementation of an Integrated
      Management System, with a focus on quality, including client satisfaction and
      improvements in procedures and processes. Accion Social received quality
      certifications in several areas.
    Accion Social had satisfactory performance on the use and supervision of
      resources, in addition to the development of a process of monitoring, supervision
      and evaluation. The Agency generated information on a continuous basis that
      enabled problems and inconsistencies to be detected. This included monitoring of



                                            42
       a statistically representative sample in the field (called spot checks), as well as
       administrative data which covered all municipalities in the Program.
      Over the last 3 years, the Program has financed an evaluation program covering
       new types of intervention in large cities (2011), effects on the displaced
       population (2008), and a process evaluation of operations in indigenous
       communities (2009). In the first half of 2012, the third round of monitoring for
       the impact evaluation in rural areas was completed.
      Over the last 3 years, the instruments of data collection, monitoring and
       supervision have been improved and evaluation results have been taken into
       account to improve the Program. Given The results of the impact evaluations as
       well as external financial audits, the Program has high credibility. Substantial
       efforts have been made to improve client services, including the contracting of a
       call center, help desk, and back office support.
      There are still areas to improve, such as the verification process, promotion efforts
       in large cities, the establishment of intersectoral commitments to improve the
       supply of services, and the continuation of the process of unifying the Program
       MIS (SIFA) and the verification information (SIRC) in order to improve security,
       administration, and response times.

6. The main points made on the evaluation of the World Bank are:
    Support of the multilateral banks was crucial. It meant that the necessary
      financial resources were always available when needed. Also the policies of the
      multilateral banks provided stronger backing for efficient and transparent resource
      use.
    The World Bank had a well-staffed team which provided technical assistance
      throughout project execution. The interaction of Bank and Program staff through
      continuous consultations and field visits helped decision making. Discussions
      with Bank staff offered new perspectives and contributed to the recognition and
      position which Familias has today.
    Bank policies influenced the selection of specific indicators and reporting
      requirements which contributed to and strengthened the monitoring system, as
      well as promoted rigorous standards. The contributions to the evaluation program
      were important for decision –making for converting it into a permanent technical
      instrument.

7. The main points made in the section on lessons learned are:
    Flexible processes are needed to take into account local conditions and
      differences in institutional behavior, especially during the process of expansion in
      coverage. The Program is not static and has to improve continuously to meet the
      needs of participants and be effective.
    Although direct payment was an effective mechanism, it created some problems
      for the families – long lines, travel costs, etc. This motivated the goal to open
      bank accounts for the participants. The Program proved it was possible to
      promote savings among poor families and that in spite of the high costs to reach
      isolated municipalities; it was possible to negotiate a lower rate without affecting
      the scope of work. For the bank which was awarded the contract, it was an


                                            43
    opportunity for growth and portfolio diversification. The current challenge is to
    increase the access to other financial services.
   The Program needs to improve information and communication channels with the
    families as well as strengthen training for municipalities.
   Because the Program is always competing with the incentives youth have to work,
    the incremental transfer scheme for secondary school is more effective to keep
    them in school. In addition, the Program should help them make links to higher
    education.
   Articulation needs to be strengthened between the Program and other government
    efforts such as the early childhood development strategy (Cero a Siempre), the
    strategy to eliminate the worst forms of child labor, and the Red Unidos, in order
    to consolidate the Social Protection System and to enable families exiting the
    Program to access a system which can help to consolidate human capital and
    formal and sustainable income generation.




                                        44
Completion Report of the Government in Spanish




                     Informe de cierre del Proyecto (IBRD-7619)
                      PRESTATARIO GOBIERNO NACIONAL


El documento CONPES 3472 de 2007 emitió concepto favorable a la nación para
contratar empréstitos con la banca multilateral destinados a la financiación de la
expansión de Familias en Acción. Esto permitió un acompañamiento de largo plazo por
parte de la Banca Multilateral al programa, en el cual hizo aportes tanto en el diseño
como en la ejecución y ayudo a consolidar un mecanismo de evaluación permanente que
ha generado importantes insumos para su transformación.

La contratación del crédito BIRF -7619 se dio en el marco de nuevos retos que empezaba
a asumir Familias en Acción, entre ellos el diseño e inicio de operación en grandes
centros urbanos, la entrada masiva a todos los municipios del país, incluso a aquellos que
contaban con una débil capacidad institucional, así como el inicio de atención con
enfoque diferencial a población indígena.

Durante el período de ejecución del crédito (2009 – 2011) el contexto político estuvo
enmarcado por la finalización del gobierno Uribe y el primer año de gobierno del
presidente Santos. Durante el gobierno Uribe se dio un impulso importante al Programa,
tomando la decisión de su expansión y la atención a nuevos tipos de población (población
desplazada e indígena). El gobierno Uribe ofreció un respaldo importante al programa,
tomando en cuenta los resultados que éste había tenido en municipios con menos de
100.000 habitantes y gracias a su flexibilidad que le permitía atender población con otro
tipo de necesidades, como lo constituye la población en situación de desplazamiento; así
como la contribución que podría brindar en la atención en situaciones de emergencia
como lo constituyó la ola invernal del año 2010.

El gobierno Santos a su vez, consideró al programa Familias en Acción como uno de las
estrategias principales en la lucha contra la pobreza y el logro de la Prosperidad para
Todos. El Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, en el eje de Igualdad de Oportunidades, establece
como desafíos el mejoramiento de la focalización del gasto social, la consolidación del
Sistema de Protección Social que contribuya a fortalecer y proteger el capital humano y
los ingresos de los hogares más pobres y vulnerables. Para el logro de este objetivo, la
administración Santos se propuso el fortalecimiento del programa, para lo cual se dio
inicio al rediseño de Familias en Acción, en aras de ajustarlo al cambio en el diagnóstico
de pobreza que se viene dando en el país en la última década, a la evolución de las
instituciones para la reducción de la pobreza, a las tendencias internacionales que se están



                                            45
dando en materia de aplicación de transferencias condicionadas y armonizarlo con los
demás objetivos propuestos en el Plan Nacional de Desarrollo.

Paralelo a esto, el contexto político ha sido cada vez más favorable a que Familias en
Acción se convierta en un programa permanente, así durante el año 2011 hizo trámite en
el Congreso de la República un proyecto de ley cuyo objetivo era: “reglamentar y elevar
a rango legal el Programa Familias en Acción, para con ello evitar que desaparezca del
contexto nacional, ante cualquier contingencia lo que dejaría sin subsidios y sin este
mecanismo de protección directa a la población más pobre?.

La ley 1532, que fue sancionada por el señor Presidente de la República el pasado 7 de
junio de 2012, y define a Familias en Acción como un programa de transferencias
monetarias condicionadas que complementa el ingreso de las familias más pobres y
vulnerables y establece que queda bajo la dirección del Departamento para la Prosperidad
Social. La Ley da los lineamientos para la focalización, la cobertura geográfica, los tipos
de subsidio, la financiación, la verificación y evaluación, las competencias de las
entidades territoriales y da un plazo de 6 meses a partir de su aprobación para la
definición de condiciones de salida.

A continuación, se presentan los aspectos más relevantes de la operación del programa en
el período de ejecución del crédito, así como aprendizajes y consideraciones tenidos en
cuenta en el rediseño del Programa e inicio de implementación de la Tercera Fase.

       1. Aspectos de diseño y operación del programa implementados durante el
          período de ejecución del crédito e impactos encontrados.

Los buenos resultados del Programa en municipios con menos de 100.000 habitantes
contribuyó a plantear la posibilidad de ampliar la cobertura en grandes ciudades, las
evaluaciones demostraban los buenos resultados en educación, nutrición y salud, no
obstante advertían tomar con precaución estos resultados para una posible expansión,
dado que el tratamiento a las familias SISBEN 1 en zonas rurales debía ser diferenciado a
una familia residente de un barrio marginado de una ciudad15.

Se tomó en consideración la capacidad del subsidio para aumentar la tasa de asistencia
escolar en área urbana, al conocer que la cobertura de servicios educativos era mayor en
estas áreas; igualmente se consideró que la cobertura de los servicios de salud era
superior, lo que hacía suponer que el programa podría no tener el efecto esperado.

A pesar de las recomendaciones de entrar de manera gradual a grandes ciudades, se dio
inicio a la expansión bajo un esquema diferenciado de montos para el pago de subsidios.
El programa diseñó diferentes modalidades de pago para las familias nivel 1 del SISBEN


15
     Ver: Acción Social; DNP. (2010). El Camino Recorrido. Diez Años Familias en Acción. Bogotá. p. 337




                                                    46
en 16 ciudades. De tal forma se decidió eliminar el subsidio de primaria y sustituir este
subsidio por una versión revisada del subsidio de nutrición para niños entre 7 a 11 años,
el cual sería excluyente al subsidio de nutrición de 0 a 7 años. Así mismo, se modificaron
los montos del subsidio en secundaria con el objetivo de reducir la deserción escolar en
los últimos grados de secundaria. Se implementaron dos esquemas denominados
incremental y de ahorro, el primero consistía en aplicar un monto diferenciado
incremental en el subsidio de educación de acuerdo con el grado escolar en secundaria
buscando cubrir el costo de oportunidad en que incurren los estudiantes al seguir
estudiando y no salir a trabajar. El esquema de ahorro consistía en la entrega de un
incentivo en el momento en que el estudiante aprobara noveno grado y se matriculara en
décimo y para cada estudiante que se graduara de grado once con el objetivo de
incentivar la permanencia hasta la culminación del ciclo escolar de básica y media.

Los municipios se clasificaron teniendo en cuenta diferencias socioeconómicas y
demográficas, los cuales fueron organizados en los siguientes grupos: esquema
tradicional, los que hicieron parte de la prueba piloto de centros urbanos, ciudades bajo el
esquema incremental y ciudades bajo el esquema de ahorro.

En la evaluación de Grandes Centros Urbanos (2011), desarrollada por el Centro
Nacional de Consultoría, se encontraron impactos positivos en el aumento de número de
años de educación aprobados, aumento en la tasa de matrícula escolar, la afiliación al
Sistema General de Seguridad Social en Salud SGSSS y en el aumento del porcentaje de
niños que recibe vacunación contra DPT (difteria, tosferina y tétanos). También se
encuentra que el programa Familias en Acción Urbano (FeA-U) genera un impacto
positivo en la disminución de la incidencia de Infección Respiratoria Aguda (IRA). Se
ratifica la necesidad de la educación nutricional como enfoque integral articulado a la
oferta del Programa Familias en Acción.

En la evaluación se evidencia que existe una mayor tasa de ocupación en los hogares
beneficiarios del programa, siendo menores las tasas de desempleo e inactividad. En
concordancia con lo encontrado en la evaluación de otras modalidades del programa,
como Familias en Acción Tradicional y Familias en Acción para Población Desplazada,
se encuentra que FeA-U tiene impactos positivos sobre el gasto total del hogar, al generar
un incremento de $74.606 del gasto total.

Los hallazgos en bancarización son muy positivos, gracias a FeA-U dentro de la
población beneficiaria aumentó tanto la solicitud de crédito a entidades financieras como
su índice de aprobación. La mejora en el acceso a crédito podría deberse a que gracias al
componente de bancarización del programa, los hogares tienen una cuenta de ahorros con
la cual presentarse ante un banco. Esto les da cierto respaldo para solicitar crédito en
entidades financieras. Asimismo, el hecho de contar con el subsidio se puede constituir
en un respaldo para que las entidades financieras aprueben créditos a los beneficiarios.




                                            47
Otros hallazgos y recomendaciones de la evaluación16:

        No hay conocimiento por parte de las familias cómo funciona el subsidio en
         grandes centros. En relación con lo hallado en la evaluación cualitativa, se
         recomienda que el programa mejore el conocimiento sobre los siguientes
         aspectos: a cuánto asciende el subsidio, cuándo se recibe, cómo interponer quejas
         y reclamos y cómo utilizar los servicios bancarios.

        Familias en Acción debe hacer mucho énfasis en mejorar la asistencia de las
         madres a los encuentros de cuidado. Esto con el fin de reforzar todos los temas de
         salud y nutrición que son fundamentales en el crecimiento y desarrollo de los
         niños.

        Se debe tener en cuenta el perfil de las madres de zona urbana al momento de
         considerar el componente de promoción, un porcentaje importante de éstas
         trabaja, lo que puede dificultar su asistencia a los encuentros. Asimismo, en
         ciudades grandes e intermedias la oferta social maneja otro tipo de espacios con
         objetivos similares a los de los EC; éstos pueden convertirse en sustitutos de
         dichos encuentros.

        Es recomendable incrementar la capacitación sobre el uso de cajero electrónico de
         modo que las madres beneficiarias puedan aprovecharlas de manera efectiva.

        Sería muy importante agilizar y mejorar el proceso de certificación de
         compromisos, se recomienda unificar los procedimientos de verificación de
         compromisos, de tal manera que las madres titulares no tengan que invertir tanto
         tiempo y dinero en el proceso.


        Sobre las madres también cae el peso de los compromisos de verificación y no
         sobre los adolescentes. El programa Familias en Acción debe comenzar a
         concebir formas en que los jóvenes sean corresponsables de estos compromisos.

        La modalidad incremental supera en varios factores a la de ahorro, la principal
         razón para que esto suceda es que el programa siempre estará compitiendo contra
         los incentivos que tienen los jóvenes para salir a trabajar, ganar independencia,
         ayudar en el hogar, etc.; y en la medida que el subsidio sea más alto esta lucha se
         zanjará a favor de la educación. Es claro que el programa Familias en Acción
         urbano debe transitar hacia la modalidad incremental, cubrir niños desde los 11
         años, edad donde comienza a ser crítica la deserción y se da la transición
         primaria-secundaria. También es fundamental que el valor del subsidio se


16
  Ver: Centro Nacional de Consultoría. (2011). Evaluación del Programa de Familias en Acción en
Grandes Centros Urbanos. Bogotá.



                                                 48
    aumente en todos los tramos escolares con el objeto de reducir el costo de
    oportunidad del trabajo –de ahí que la modalidad incremental sea la de mayores
    impactos.

   A partir de los tres años de edad se abre una brecha educativa cuando los niños de
    los estratos más pobres no asisten a educación preescolar. Según la encuesta de
    calidad de vida de 2008, la cobertura escolar para niños entre 3 y 4 años del
    quintil 5 llega al 72% mientras que para el quintil 1 es de 48%.

   Se recomienda mejorar la educación financiera que el programa ofrece, de modo
    que las madres beneficiarias se sientan seguras a la hora de realizar transacciones
    a través del cajero automático.

   Es necesario reforzar la educación nutricional como parte integral del Programa
    Familias en Acción, debido a que aunque los resultados muestran incremento en
    la compra de alimentos, no siempre se optimiza ni la variedad ni la frecuencia de
    consumo para tener impactos mayores en el estado nutricional.

   Para controlar el riesgo latente de embarazo adolescente en la población
    beneficiaria del programa, se sugiere exigir como condicionalidad, la asistencia de
    jóvenes mayores de 12 años a actividades educativas relacionadas con la
    educación sexual. En este sentido, al menos una vez al año se deberían
    implementar talleres en los que se les instruya sobre una concepción integral de la
    sexualidad, dándoles a conocer temas relacionados con los derechos sexuales y
    reproductivos y se les explique el uso de métodos anticonceptivos y las
    consecuencias de un embarazo temprano. Los incentivos en el diseño de los
    programas de transferencias condicionadas pueden jugar un papel importante en
    los impactos que estos programas tengan sobre el embarazo adolescente. En tal
    sentido, se recomienda pensar en establecer alguna condicionalidad relacionada
    con el logro escolar para entregar el subsidio. Esta condicionalidad puede ser
    similar a la establecida en el Subsidio Educativo Condicionado a la Asistencia
    Escolar de la Secretaría de Educación de Bogotá. En este esquema una parte del
    subsidio se entrega cada dos meses, y la otra sólo se entrega si el beneficiario
    aprueba el año lectivo. Esto tendría efectos positivos sobre el logro escolar y
    ayudaría a controlar el riesgo latente sobre embarazo adolescente.

   Si bien el programa cumple adecuadamente la mayor parte de sus objetivos el
    futuro de estas familias sigue siendo incierto, débil, delicado -por decir lo
    mínimo- y las oportunidades laborales escasas, restringidas y de muy baja calidad.
    Por consiguiente, la movilidad social es restringida y la eficiencia de la política
    redistributiva casi nula. Por lo tanto, se propone: i) que el programa acompañe a
    aquellos jóvenes que completen sus estudios de secundaria para que puedan
    acceder a la educación postsecundaria; ii) que puedan acceder a créditos del
    ICETEX a tasas subsidiadas y iii) se les dé un subsidio condicionado para
    sostenimiento.



                                        49
Estos resultados, así como los preliminares de la evaluación correspondiente al Tercer
Seguimiento en municipios con menos de 100.000 habitantes (se anexa un breve resumen
de las conclusiones del Tercer Seguimiento en municipios con menos de 100.000
habitantes, la cual fue finalizada en mayo de 2012), constituyeron un insumo importante
durante el proceso de rediseño del programa.

   2. Perspectiva de sostenibilidad y algunas consideraciones del rediseño:

Debe tenerse en cuenta que aunque Colombia ha registrado avances en materia de
reducción de la pobreza, dichos resultados aún no son suficientes, considerando el alto
porcentaje de la población que todavía se encuentra en situación de pobreza y pobreza
extrema, y que el ritmo de caída de estos indicadores es lento comparado con los países
de la región.

Aunque el crecimiento económico (canal indirecto de reducción de pobreza) que ha
venido presentando el país podrá tener un impacto sobre dicha reducción, éste no puede
ser el único mecanismo para generar efectos certeros en la disminución de la desigualdad
del ingreso y reducción sostenida de la pobreza. Otra de las medidas en búsqueda de
dicho objetivo es el direccionamiento de recursos hacia las familias más pobres y
vulnerables. Una de las estrategias que se han implementado en varias regiones del
mundo y en Colombia en vía de la redistribución del gasto público ha sido la entrega de
transferencias condicionadas, por medio de las cuales se generan incentivos adecuados
para estimular la acumulación de capital humano, que en el futuro permitan la movilidad
social, la disminución en la desigualdad del ingreso y reducción sostenida de la pobreza.

Este esquema de redistribución juega un doble papel, de un lado constituye una
transferencia directa en el presente, que complementa el ingreso de las familias para que
mantengan un nivel de consumo y sigan en el proceso de formación de capital, y de otro
lado, contribuye a mejorar las condiciones de inserción en el mercado laboral y a
aumentar el ingreso en el futuro. Jóvenes más sanos y con mayor nivel de educación
obtendrán mejores empleos en el sector formal, mejorarán su ingreso, tendrán protección
permanente y saldrán de la pobreza.

La apuesta es crear un sistema de transferencias condicionadas el cual acompañe el ciclo
de vida de las personas pobres y vulnerables, en este momento apuntando
primordialmente a las etapas del ciclo de vida en donde se realiza la mayor acumulación
de capital humano y se generan capacidades para mayor productividad y vinculación
laboral en el sector formal en el futuro. La intención de darle sostenibilidad al programa
se ve reflejada en la reciente aprobación de la Ley 1532 de 2012, que como ya se
mencionó busca “blindar? a Familias en Acción para convertirlo en una política de
Estado que permita mantener sus impactos en el largo plazo.

En dicha vía, la Dirección de Ingreso Social del Departamento Administrativo para la
Prosperidad Social enfocó gran parte de sus esfuerzos durante el primer semestre de 2012
en el rediseño del Programa. Este rediseño se sustenta en tendencias internacionales hacia
donde se están dirigiendo las transferencias monetarias condicionadas en los países



                                           50
latinoamericanos y en respuesta a las directrices impartidas por el Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo 2010- 2014 “Prosperidad para Todos?.


La propuesta de rediseño del Programa tiene en cuenta, entre otros, los siguientes
aspectos:

Focalización, territorial y poblacional: se busca garantizar mayor precisión para
identificar a los beneficiarios. Esta identificación debe partir de los objetivos del
programa buscando maximizar el impacto sobre la población seleccionada, una mayor
eficiencia del gasto social y minimizar los errores de inclusión y de exclusión.

La población objetivo del programa corresponde a familias con puntaje SISBEN III
inferior al punto de corte definido por el programa, en situación de desplazamiento,
indígenas, y pertenecientes a la Red UNIDOS. El programa en coordinación con el DNP,
realizó los análisis para determinar los puntos de corte en el SISBEN III, con los cuales
se identificará y seleccionará a la población potencialmente beneficiaria.

 Tuvo  en  cuenta  la  recomendación  de  vincular  dentro  de  la  focalización  a  la  población 
 UNIDOS que fuese elegible y que no estuviese vinculada a Familias en Acción, en aras de 
 disminuir los errores de exclusión. 


Formación de Capital Humano: entrega de transferencias monetarias para salud y
nutrición y educación de manera incremental en secundaria. A partir de la tercera fase se
incluirá transición y primero de primaria. Se hará énfasis en el desarrollo infantil
temprano y en la nutrición.. También se pondrán en marcha 4 pilotos para analizar el
impacto que puede tener el programa para atender otro tipo de necesidades de la
población beneficiaria:

       Desincentivo al trabajo infantil en minas: Entrega de subsidio monetario a la
        familia condicionado a que el menor no trabaje y realice otras actividades.
       Atención a familias con personas con discapacidad: Entrega de subsidio
        monetario al cuidador o a la persona con discapacidad.
       Desestimulo al embarazo adolescente: aumento del subsidio monetario en
        educación a las niñas, condicionado a que reciban educación sexual y apoyo en el
        desarrollo de un proyecto de vida.
       Mejorar la calidad de la nutrición: subsidio monetario condicionado a la
        asistencia a capacitaciones en nutrición y en resultados en talla y peso de los niños

  Tuvo  en  cuenta  las  recomendaciones  de  las  evaluaciones  frente  a  que  el  programa  debería 
  transitar  hacia  la  ampliación  del  esquema  incremental  en  educación  secundaria,  una  mayor 
  atención  en  la  etapa  de  primera  infancia  a  través  del  pago  de  subsidio  en  transición,  la  necesidad 
  de  hacer  énfasis  en  mejoramiento  de  la  calidad  de  la  nutrición  y  el  pilotaje  sobre  cómo  el 
  Programa podría contribuir en la disminución del embarazo adolescente.  




                                                     51
Formación para el trabajo: por medio del Programa Ingreso para la Prosperidad Social
se buscará promover la formación de capacidades y habilidades para el trabajo de los
jóvenes del programa Familias en Acción que se gradúan de 11 grado, y deseen continuar
su formación titulada.
  Tuvo  en  cuenta  las  recomendaciones  de  las  evaluaciones  frente  a  la  necesidad  de  “tender  un 
  puente?  con  la  educación  superior  de  los  jóvenes  que  terminan  el  ciclo  de  formación 
  secundaria. Así los jóvenes graduados recibirán un apoyo para que continúen con la formación 
  titulada.


Enfoque regional: diferenciación de los subsidios entre centros urbanos y municipios
pobres, definidos a partir del ?ndice de Pobreza Multidimensional con el fin de
incrementar la progresividad geográfica del programa.

En el presente contexto, donde el programa cuenta con un alto respaldo político y legal
para su operación en el futuro, se ha tomado la decisión que la financiación en adelante
sea asumida con recursos del presupuesto nacional, para lo cual el Gobierno Nacional
propenderá por proveer anualmente los recursos para atender los pagos de la totalidad de
las familias y la operación, de acuerdo al marco fiscal de mediano plazo (Art 8 – Ley
1532 de 2012).

   3. Factores que afectaron la operación del programa durante el período de
      ejecución del crédito

     El proceso de ampliación de cobertura no se llevó a cabo de manera gradual, tal y
       como lo recomendaron las evaluaciones, lo cual afectó la posibilidad de hacer
       una evaluación minuciosa sobre los efectos que estas intervenciones podrían
       tener sobre las nuevas poblaciones beneficiarias. La falta de gradualidad en la
       entrada tuvo implicaciones en la evaluación de impacto, lo cual derivó en
       contaminación de la muestra en municipios piloto como Bogotá y Soacha;
       adicionalmente a que algunos de los resultados de la evaluación de los piloto,
       como fue el caso de Medellín, fueron obtenidos con posterioridad a la
       expansión.

     En el proceso licitatorio para la contratación de la firma encargada de ofrecer el
       servicio de pago de los subsidios enmarcado en la apertura de cuentas de ahorro,
       se recibió solamente una propuesta, correspondiente a la Unión Temporal
       Bancoagrario de Colombia y Assenda SA. La razón por la cual otros bancos no
       presentaron ofertas fue que “las familias pobres no son su objeto de negocio? y
       porque los costos para llegar a municipios muy apartados era muy alto. Si bien
       la banca multilateral emitió concepto de no objeción y la correspondiente
       autorización para llevar a cabo las negociaciones, y se logró ajustar la oferta sin
       afectar los objetivos y el alcance de la contratación, esto afectó lo planeado




                                                   52
        inicialmente y evidenció el desconocimiento que se tenía de la oferta de
        servicios del sector bancario.

       Si bien en el marco del diseño del programa en zonas urbanas se tuvo en cuenta
         la diferenciación de las dinámicas entre áreas rurales y urbanas en temas como
         las distancias, la ocupación de las madres, costos de transporte, otras formas de
         organización comunitaria, entre otras; en la implementación del programa dichas
         diferencias tuvieron un impacto importante en el desarrollo de las estrategias de
         promoción, como por ejemplo en el tiempo en que las madres pueden dedicar a
         la asistencia a los encuentros de cuidado.

     Se ha buscado el perfeccionamiento del proceso de verificación de compromisos,
      buscando su flexibilización y ajuste teniendo en cuenta las diversas realidades
      locales, para lo cual se diseñó una estrategia con diferentes modalidades para la
      verificación. La expansión fue un reto importante en el marco de la verificación,
      por la gran magnitud de beneficiarios, las grandes distancias, el número y
      dispersión de instituciones de salud y educación y tiempos de desplazamiento.
      No obstante, continúan evidenciándose dificultades importantes como por
      ejemplo, todavía el compromiso por parte de algunas instituciones de educación y
      salud es insuficiente, de tal manera que la responsabilidad sigue recayendo sobre
      el Programa, y se han presentado dificultades en algunos casos en la verificación
      de autenticidad de documentos; y en el caso particular de Bogotá, hace falta
      definir más claramente los lineamientos y revisar la operatividad del programa
      con la nueva administración distrital.

   4. Evaluación de desempeño ACCIÓN SOCIAL – Departamento para la
      Prosperidad Social

La ejecución del proyecto (2008 a 2011) estuvo a cargo de la Agencia Presidencial para
la Acción Social y la Cooperación Internacional, ACCIÓN SOCIAL, bajo parámetros de
eficiencia en la utilización de los recursos, el máximo cumplimiento de las metas
propuestas, la satisfacción de los beneficiarios de los subsidios y la armonización y
coordinación con otras políticas de gobierno.

El programa ha enmarcado sus actividades en la implementación del Sistema de Gestión
Integral, de acuerdo con el eje de calidad, se ha enfocado en aumentar la satisfacción al
cliente y en mejorar el desempeño de los procesos, en el eje de seguridad y salud
ocupacional, se ha preocupado por brindar adecuadas condiciones de trabajo y en
gestionar los riesgos tanto para los colaboradores, como para los beneficiarios que asisten
a las diversas actividades, como también se viene trabajando en el eje ambiental y en el
eje de seguridad de la información. Por el cumplimiento de estos estándares, la entidad
recibió las certificaciones correspondientes.

Consideramos que la entidad tuvo una adecuada gestión en el uso y seguimiento a los
recursos, además del desarrollo de un proceso de monitoreo, seguimiento y evaluación; a
partir del cual se generó información de manera permanente y permitió la detección de


                                            53
alarmas y posibles inconsistencias. Así se emprendieron acciones para el seguimiento
interno y externo muestral, mediante el seguimiento interno se generó información
permanente sobre la totalidad de los municipios y el cubrimiento a las familias, mediante
el seguimiento externo muestral se verificó la transparencia en la entrega de los subsidios,
para lo cual una firma externa verificaba en campo la exactitud de la información
reportada, esto se hacía a través de una muestra estadísticamente representativa, esta
metodología es denominada spot checks.

Adicionalmente, en los últimos tres años, el Programa afianzó el esquema de evaluación,
se llevó a cabo un proceso de análisis de sus nuevos tipos de intervención, en 2008
finalizó la evaluación de Familias en Acción desplazados, se desarrolló el piloto de
grandes centros, en 2009 se puso en marcha la evaluación de operaciones del esquema de
atención a población indígena, durante 2011 se desarrolló y finalizó la evaluación de
operaciones y de impacto de grandes centros y durante el primer semestre de 2012, se
finalizó el tercer seguimiento en municipios con menos de 100.000 habitantes.

Estos últimos años se ha trabajado en afinar los instrumentos de recolección, monitoreo y
seguimiento, los resultados de las evaluaciones han sido altamente consideradas para el
fortalecimiento y mejoramiento del programa; los resultados de las evaluaciones como de
las auditorías externas implementadas han generado alta credibilidad frente a las acciones
desarrolladas para el buen funcionamiento del Programa, adicionalmente, se han
intensificado los esfuerzos por prestar una mejor atención a los beneficiarios, a través de
la Gerencia de Servicios y Soluciones – GERESS, se contrató un outsourcing para
atención telefónica, mesa de ayuda y back office que brinda al Programa este soporte
para agilizar la atención, sin costo alguno para el beneficiario.

Lo anterior no representa la inexistencia de aspectos claves donde deben realizarse
ajustes o se debe profundizar, como el citado proceso de verificación y algunos
planteamientos de la promoción en grandes centros, el establecimiento de compromisos
intersectoriales para alcanzar la suficiencia de la oferta social, continuar con el proceso de
unificación SIFA – SIRC para mejorar la seguridad, administración, comunicación y
tiempos de respuesta, entre otros.

   5. Evaluación de desempeño del Banco Mundial

El apoyo de la banca multilateral para el desarrollo del Programa ha sido crucial de una
parte, permitió contar con los recursos necesarios para cumplir con todas las metas
trazadas y no incumplirle a las familias, recursos que estuvieron disponibles con
oportunidad. Gracias a las políticas de la Banca se obtuvo un mayor respaldo frente a la
ejecución eficiente y transparente de los recursos.

El Banco Mundial dispuso de un completo equipo que proporcionó asistencia técnica a lo
largo de toda la ejecución del crédito. La interacción entre los funcionarios de la
representación del Banco y los asesores del Programa, a través de consultas permanentes
y visitas a campo, ayudó a la toma de decisiones. Las discusiones enriquecedoras con




                                             54
este equipo ofrecieron nuevas perspectivas y contribuyeron al reconocimiento y
posicionamiento con el que cuenta hoy Familias en Acción.

Las políticas del Banco implicaban la determinación de ciertos indicadores, tipos de
reporte e informes, que alimentaron y fortalecieron el sistema de seguimiento del
programa y le ofreció alta rigurosidad, así como el esquema de evaluación fue uno de los
más importantes aportes para la toma de decisiones, convirtiéndose en una herramienta
técnica institucionalizada.

   6. Lecciones aprendidas

      La necesidad de flexibilización de los procesos teniendo en cuenta las realidades
       locales, las dinámicas propias de las regiones, las diferencias en los
       comportamientos institucionales, especialmente ante procesos de expansión de
       cobertura tanto geográfica como poblacional. Debe tenerse en cuenta que el
       Programa no es estático y debe mejorarse continuamente para cubrir las
       necesidades de los beneficiarios y ser más efectivo.

      Aunque el pago de subsidios mediante giros bancarios fue un mecanismo
       efectivo, persistían algunos problemas para las familias, como las largas filas y la
       congestión; esto llevó a repensar el mecanismo de pago y dar inicio a uno de los
       procesos más ambiciosos en materia de bancarización. De tal manera, el programa
       abrió una nueva puerta y comprobó que era posible fomentar el ahorro al interior
       de las familias más pobres y vulnerables y que a pesar de las dificultades en
       términos de los costos que implicaba llegar a lugares apartados, fue posible
       acordar una tarifa sin afectar los objetivos. Para la banca fue una oportunidad de
       crecimiento y diversificación de su portafolio. El reto del Gobierno Nacional se
       encuentra en aumentar el acceso a otros servicios financieros.

      El programa requiere profundizar los canales de información y comunicación que
       tiene con las familias beneficiarias, debe explorar nuevos mecanismos para que
       las familias obtengan mayor información sobre cómo operan los subsidios, así
       como profundizar la capacitación de los enlaces municipales.

      El programa siempre estará compitiendo con los incentivos que tienen los jóvenes
       para salir a trabajar y generar mayores ingresos en el hogar, por tanto el esquema
       incremental en secundaria resulta más efectivo para la permanencia de los
       menores en el sistema escolar. Adicionalmente, el Programa debe tender puentes
       hacia la educación superior, para continuar con el esfuerzo y la inversión que se
       realiza al lograr que los jóvenes completen el ciclo escolar.

      El Programa debe buscar mayor articulación con otros esfuerzos de gobierno,
       tales como la estrategia de Cero a Siempre, la Estrategia Nacional para Prevenir y
       Erradicar las peores formas de Trabajo Infantil, la Red UNIDOS, entre otros. Esto
       bajo el entendido de la necesidad de consolidar el Sistema de Protección Social y
       para que en el momento de la salida del Programa, las familias estén inmersas en


                                           55
este sistema que ayude en la consolidación del capital humano y en la generación
de ingresos de manera formal y sostenible.




                                   56
  ANEXO N° 1 – Conclusiones Evaluación Impactos de largo plazo del Programa
  Familias en Acción en municipios de menos de 100 mil habitantes en los aspectos
                      claves del desarrollo del capital humano


                            Unión Temporal Econometría S.A. – SEI. S.A.




                               Y la asesoría del



Los impactos en la evaluación se examinan en dos niveles distintos. Por un lado, los más
directamente relacionados con el Programa (nutrición, salud y educación) que en
conjunto apuntan a al tema del capital humano; por otro lado, aquellos en los cuales se
proyecta el capital humano y dependen no solo de lo que haga el Programa sino de las
condiciones del entorno (mercado laboral, bienestar), así como aquellos que se traducen
en efectos no esperados del Programa (dependencia del subsidio, fecundidad y
bancarización).

El Programa tiene efectos importantes sobre la acumulación de capital humano en el
largo plazo (antropometría y educación), los cuales a su vez se reflejan en diferencias en
el proceso de aprendizaje (desarrollo cognitivo), generando impactos en variables donde
esos desarrollos de capacidades son fundamentales (graduación de bachillerato) y llega a
reflejarse en algunas variables asociadas al mercado laboral. También se encontraron
efectos en variables sobre las cuales el Programa no tenía el propósito de impactar
(acceso a la bancarización). En conjunto, se tienen impactos positivos y recomendaciones
de ajuste en la dirección de reorientar los subsidios hacia donde se generen mayores
aportes para romper barreras de acceso y al mayor desarrollo del capital humano.

En primer lugar se tienen los impactos en variables directamente relacionadas con la
acumulación de capital humano, en municipios con exposición temprana al Programa. Se
registra una disminución en la probabilidad de tener baja talla para la edad o ser
desnutrido crónico para los niños de 9 a 15 años en zona rural; para los niños entre 13 y
17 años se encuentra una disminución en la edad de ingreso a la escuela en zona urbana,
y se advierten mejoras en la progresión escolar (grado por la edad, probabilidad de
graduación) para adolescentes entre 18 y 26 años en zona rural.

Así, en variables que reflejan el aprovechamiento del desarrollo de esas mayores
capacidades, hay un incremento de las habilidades cognitivas de los niños entre 12 y 17
años, reflejada en el puntaje del test de matemáticas.

La acumulación de capital humano se proyecta en un aumento en la probabilidad de tener
un empleo formal para las mujeres entre 18 y 26 años en zona rural. Sin embargo, es



                                                   57
posible que todavía no se alcance a evidenciar las mejoras en productividad y el
bienestar, pues muchos de los beneficiarios aún son menores y no han salido al mercado
laboral a generar ingresos.

A la par de lo anteriormente mencionado, diez años después de haber comenzado la
implementación del Programa, se presentan las siguientes situaciones de alerta: i) La tasa
de asistencia escolar en secundaria continúa siendo baja para niños entre 15 y 17 años
(entre el 80-60%); ii) Es posible que el Programa esté generando un incentivo perverso a
repetir años en la escuela, probablemente en los años finales, para mantener el subsidio
por un periodo adicional; iii) Los adolescentes que salen del Programa encuentran
grandes dificultades para vincularse al mercado laboral. Esto es particularmente crítico
para las mujeres, quienes presentan tasas de desempleo superiores al 60%; iv) Se registra
un aumento en la probabilidad de que los menores entre 9 y 12 años tengan exceso de
peso (sobrepeso u obesidad) en zona rural.

En cuanto a los efectos de mediano o corto plazo, los resultados son menos contundentes.
Están limitados a una población más pequeña ubicada en el límite entre el nivel de Sisben
1 y 2, donde no se incluyen los más pobres, población para la cual los impactos tienden a
ser mayores. A pesar de estas limitaciones, se encuentra que el Programa contribuye a
una disminución del riesgo de estar en condición de inseguridad alimentaria y está
asociado con incrementos en el uso de servicios odontológicos y la adquisición de
conocimientos sobre el manejo de la EDA (a través de los Encuentros de Cuidado). Entre
los efectos no esperados se halla que el recibir el Programa Familias en Acción permite a
los hogares en zona rural acceder más fácilmente a crédito formal.

Por último, no se encuentran resultados significativos en las mediciones de dependencia
del subsidio y tasas de natalidad, temas que han sido debatidos extensiva y
controversialmente, y que se relacionan con las transferencias de dinero condicionadas,
específicamente con FA.

Recomendaciones

Con base en los resultados arrojados, se presentan planteamientos y recomendaciones en
torno a las condiciones futuras del Programa, teniendo en cuenta el momento estratégico
por el que atraviesa el mismo, en el que está previsto su rediseño, en el marco de la nueva
estructura del Departamento para la Prosperidad Social (DPS).

Cambiar la estructura de los subsidios para educación

•    Modificar la estructura del subsidio de educación, reduciendo el subsidio en
    educación primaria (donde se tienen coberturas que llegan casi al universo) y
    aumentándolo para secundaria, con el propósito de generar mayores incentivos de
    permanencia de los jóvenes en educación media. Este tipo de estrategia puede ser
    particularmente apropiada en áreas urbanas donde las oportunidades en el mercado
    laboral puedan ser especialmente tentadoras para los jóvenes. Existen estudios (Todd,


                                            58
    P.; Wolpin, K. (2008) y Attanasio, O.; Meghir, C.; Santiago, A. (2012)) que han
    simulado cambios de este tipo al programa PROGRESA en México; en ellos se
    muestra que la misma cantidad de dinero utilizado de manera diferente puede generar
    mayores efectos en la asistencia a educación secundaria. En Colombia, estrategias
    alternativas de incentivos a la matriculación en educación secundaria se han
    experimentado en grandes ciudades. Desde luego hay que tener precauciones. En
    particular, se deben considerar los siguientes puntos:

      a.   Es posible que el subsidio para educación primaria tenga efectos adicionales,
           muy distintos a la estimulación de la asistencia. Por ejemplo, puede ser que el
           subsidio permita a los hogares lograr mejores resultados nutricionales o
           simplemente juegue una función importante de redistribución.
      b.   El riesgo de eliminar totalmente el subsidio de educación primaria es que el
           Programa puede perder contacto con algunos hogares por algún tiempo.
      c.   Pueden existir áreas (en especial pequeñas áreas aisladas rurales) en donde el
           subsidio a educación primaria aún pueda jugar un papel importante, en cuyo
           caso se debería continuar utilizándolo.
      d.   El subsidio en educación primaria sin lugar a dudas tuvo un efecto positivo en
           la matriculación temprana, que a su vez se relaciona con progreso escolar,
           especialmente en las áreas rurales; este efecto es importante y en esa medida es
           conveniente buscar un incentivo que lo mantenga.

Diferenciar subsidios en áreas

En la medida que se encontraron efectos diferenciales por zonas (rural y cabeceras
municipales), hacer que ciertos apoyos específicos tambien lo sean. La evidencia muestra
la efectividad limitada del Programa en zona urbana, por lo que valdría la pena rediseñar
el Programa en las áreas urbanas. Se conoce, por trabajos previos, que FA experimentó
con estructuras de subsidios alternas en ciudades grandes, que pueden ser útiles al
respecto. Los mejores resultados estuvieron relacionados con un esquema de pagos
incrementales con el grado, que evitaba el abandono en puntos críticos de la carrera
escolar (el cambio de primaria a secundaria básica, y de básica a secundaria media)
(Centro Nacional de Consultoría, 2011).

Mejorar la calidad de los servicios

•    No está claro si los beneficiarios obtienen servicios de calidad adecuada. Vale la
    pena realizar un diagnostico de la calidad de los colegios y centros de salud utilizados
    por los beneficiarios de FA y, de acuerdo con los resultados, considerar una
    intervención para mejorar la calidad.

Articular FA con otros programas sociales

•    Existen aún retos importantes que el Programa, dado su diseño y objetivos, no puede
    pretender abarcar (calidad de servicios sociales, retención escolar para adolecentes,
    desempleo juvenil, etc.) y debe buscar articularse con otros programas del Gobierno,
    para poder enfrentarlos. FA puede desempeñar un papel importante (por ejemplo,


                                            59
     como punto de entrada al sistema de protección social) pero debe articularse de
     manera más cercana con otras intervenciones. El programa Red Unidos, que tiene
     como uno de sus objetivos la coordinación y focalización de la oferta de servicios a
     los pobres, puede ser la columna vertebral para este proceso de articulación de
     políticas.

Innovaciones dentro de FA

•    Primera Infancia: Los apoyos en nutrición en los primeros años marcan diferencias
     que se mantienen en el tiempo. Por tanto estos son apoyos que deben conservarse.
     Incluso podrían complementarse con programas como los de estimulación temprana,
     según se deriva de evaluaciones paralelas que se han desarrollado17. Se puede utilizar
     el capital social en las madres líderes de FA para implementar, a través de ellas, otros
     programas de primera infancia.
•     Créditos para educación terciaria: Hay una demanda de productos financieros que
     puedan ser focalizados para acceder a la educación terciaria. En este nivel las
     limitaciones económicas pueden ser muy relevantes para los colombianos más
     pobres. En el análisis cualitativo se evidencian posibles cambios en las familias en
     relación con las expectativas que ellas tienen sobre los hijos. Es necesario por tanto
     construir un horizonte más amplio de futuro, donde los jóvenes tengan cabida con sus
     proyectos luego de haber terminado el ciclo escolar. Valdría la pena explorar
     estrategias ya sea para incluir un componente adicional a FA o disminuir el subsidio
     en estudios en de primaria para usarlos en educación terciaria (con las precauciones
     ya anotadas). Sin embargo, para suplir la demanda, es necesario que se incremente la
     oferta de educación terciaria en el país, en especial en zonas rurales
•     Bancarización: La inclusión financiera de los pobres contribuye a ganarle a la
     pobreza. El Programa ya ha experimentado en tratar de aumentar la participación de
     sus beneficiarios en el sector financiero formal. Hay evidencia de que en este aspecto
     el Programa ha tenido impacto. Se debe utilizar la infraestructura del Programa para
     traer mayor inclusión financiera. Por un lado se puede reemplazar las cuentas de
     ahorro requeridas para el pago de los subsidios por cuentas de capitalización y con
     esto fomentar un mayor ahorro. De otra parte, y con el ánimo de reducir la deserción
     en los últimos años de secundaria, se puede abrir cuentas de ahorro a los jóvenes
     donde se ahorre una parte del subsidio de secundaria para estudios superiores o
     inversiones en proyectos productivos a futuro. En Bogotá se tiene alguna experiencia
     relevante con el Subsidio Condicionado a la Asistencia Escolar.

Hacer obligatorios los Encuentros de Cuidado




17
   El impacto de un piloto de estimulación basado en el trabajo seminal de Sally Grantham-McGregor, en
el cual, en visitas a los hogares a niños pequeños y a sus madres (o cuidador principal), se trabaja un
currículo bien estructurado que incluye una cantidad de actividades de juego y la utilización de diferentes
materiales de aprendizaje, con la participación de las madres lideres de FA para realizar las visitas,
evidencia la importancia de la estimulación (presentado en Bogotá el 26 de Marzo del 2012) 



                                                     60
•    No solo el subsidio de nutrición es importante para mejorar la adquisición de
    alimentos en el hogar. Se deben fomentar mejores hábitos alimentarios para que la
    cantidad se reemplace con calidad de alimentos. En este sentido, se debería pensar en
    la obligatoriedad de la asistencia a los Encuentros de Cuidado y hacer partícipes a
    algunos de los integrantes de la familia (adolescentes, por ejemplo), al igual que
    reforzar las temáticas incluidas en estos, no solo relacionadas con la parte logística
    del Programa sino con los diferentes aspectos de salud, nutrición, actividad física,
    educación sexual, etc. que permitan tomar mejores decisiones y por ende, mejorar la
    calidad de salud y nutrición en general. Al respecto, en las capacitaciones es
    importante separar lo que significa “no tener hambre? de lo que significa “alimentarse
    bien?. Una cosa es tener hambre y saciarla con alimentos baratos inadecuados, y otra
    cosa es no tener plata y creer que los alimentos saludables no se pueden comprar
    porque son los más caros.
     
                                          




                                             61
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    62
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Evaluación de Operaciones de los Proyectos Piloto del Programa Familias en
      Acción en Comunidades Indígenas (Centro Nacional de Consultoria, 30 abril
      2010).
   2. Evaluacion del Programa Familias en Accion en Grandes Centros Urbanos,
      Centro Nacional de Consultoria (Bogota, December 2011)
   3. Subsidios Diferenciados - Esquemas Ahorro e Incremental Estado y Avance
      (Unidad de Direccionamiento Estrategico y Monitoreo, Familias en Accion,
      Noviembre de 2011)
   4. Guia Para la Verificacion de Compromisos Generalidades (Familias en Accion,
      2011)
   5. Informes de Estado y Avance (Cada Semestre 2009-2011)
   6. Ley 1532, 7 de junio, 2012
   7. Familias en Accion 10 anos despues: que impactos, que cambios, que futuro, by
      Orazio Attanasio, Arturo Grcia, Luca Pelleramo y Olga Lucia Romero, Abril
      2012.




                                        63
