Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19760 - NEP
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 40.1 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate EffectiveApril 1999)
Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupee
NRs= US$ 0.015
US$ 1 = NRs 68.0
FISCAL YEAR
July 16  July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
OAG           Office of the Auditor General
DDC            District Development Committee
DDG            Deputy Director General
DffD          Department of International Development, U.K.
DOLIDAR       Department of Local Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads
DOR           Department of Roads
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment (new roads)
FCGO           Financial Controller General's Office
GEU           Geo-environmental Unit
HMG/N         His Majesty' Government of Nepal
lEE            Initial Environmental Examination (upgrading and rehabilitation roads)
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
MOPE           Ministry of Population and the Environment
MOWT           Ministry of Works and Transport
MLD           Ministry of Local Development
MLJ           Ministry of Law and Justice
MRCU          Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit
MTC           Mechanical Training Center
NRDUC         New Road Development and Upgrading Component
PCU            Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
PIP           Priority Investment Plan
PLRP          Pilot Labor-based District Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
RMRP           Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
RSSDU          Road Sector Skills Development Unit
RUC            Road User Committee
SA            Social Assessment
SDC           Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SMD            Strengthened Maintenance Divisions
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TESU           Traffic Engineering and Safety Unit
VDC            Village Development Committee
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager/Director:    Frannie A. Leautier
Task Team Leader:   Juan Gaviria



NEPAL
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                              2
1. Project development objective                                           2
2. Key performance indicators                                              2
B. Strategic Context                                                          2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the  2
project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                              3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices      4
C. Project Description Summary                                                5
1. Project components                                                      5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project           5
3. Benefits and target population                                          6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           6
D. Project Rationale                                                          7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection               7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies  7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                        9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                            10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                  10
1. Economic                                                               10
2. Financial                                                              11
3. Technical                                                              12
4. Institutional                                                          13
5. Social                                                                 16
6. Environmental assessment                                               20
7. Participatory approach                                                 21
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                  22
1. Sustainability                                                         22
2. Critical risks                                                         22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                         23



G. Main conditions                                                            23
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                 23
2. Other                                                                    24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                               25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                              25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                               26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                         30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                              33
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                        34
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                    40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                            43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                           54
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                            55
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                        56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                 58
Annex 11: Institutional Strengthening and Training                            60
Annex 12: Technical Annex on Environmental Assessment                         72
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30306



NEPAL
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASIN
Date: September 24, 1999                         Team Leader: Juan Gaviria
Country Manager/Director. Hans M. Rothenbuhler   Sector Manager/Director: Frannie A. Leautier
Project ID: P045052                              Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s): TRANSPORT
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
D Loan         M Credit        O Grant        Ol Guarantee    E Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 54.5
Proposed Terms: O To be defined  12 Multicurrency O Single currency
EO Standard Variable M Fixed       a LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:                 0
Service charge                  0.75%
Financing Plan: 1 To be defined
Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                    3.37           8.03         11.40
IBRD
IDA                                                          25.60          28.90         54.50
|Total:                                                       28.97          36.93         65.90
Borrower: KINGDOM OF NEPAL
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency:
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
Other Agency(ies):
Department of Roads (DOR)
Address: Babar Mahal, Kathmandu
Contact Person: Director General
Tel: 977-1-262675                Fax: 977-1-262993               Email: dgdor@mos.com.np
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2000        2001        2002        2003        2004
Annual:    7.0         17.8         19.2        8.2         2.3
Cumulative    7.0          24.8        44.0        52.2       54.5
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/99  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS F PD W 9.l  I 



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
(a) Achieve sustainable maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of economically justifiable roads in the
strategic road network within the Priority Investment Plan framework;
(b) Improve the access to district headquarters not currently served by road, andeduce vehicle transport
costs and delays in project areas;
(c) Promote more sustainable funding and more efficient public sector management of road maintenance;
(d) Adopt and disseminate environmentally sustainable road construction and maintenance practices; and
(e) Generate rural-employment through adoption of labor-based technologies and long-term employment for
the additional generated economic activity.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 18578-NEP                            Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/15/98
The project supports the CAS objective to reduce poverty in rural areas by improving rural access (about
500,000 beneficiaries), and promoting higher agricultural output and non-farm income in remote hill areas
of the Western, Mid-Western and Far Western regions (which have an overrepresentation of the poor in
Nepal).
The second CAS objective supported by the project is supporting beneficiaries, encouraging private sector,
NGOs and community participation. This objective will be pursued by implementing contracts through
contractors, improving access to districts headquarters involving community participation, encouraging the
implementation of labor-based methods to ensure economic viability, maximize local benefits and minimize
environmental impacts. A thorough social assessment effort has been initiated to monitor and evaluate the
impact of the project on beneficiaries. The inclusion of the private sector is ensured with their leadership of
the efforts to establish a private sector lead Roads Boards.
The third CAS objective supported by the project is a more efficient infrastructure spending through
increased prioritization of public expenditures, and a focus on productive investments and maintenance of
existing assets. This objective will be pursued by (a) following up and implementing the Priority Investment
Plan (PIP) for the Road Sector (February 1997), and (b) providing sufficient funding to support
maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing network and increasing HMG' effectiveness in management
and funding of routine and periodic maintenance activities.
The project continues to support close and efficient donor coordination in the sector, as under the on-going
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (RMRP), co-financed by IDA, the Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation (SDC) and the Department for International Development of the U.K.
(Df[D). The RMRP has assisted DOR to focus donor resources in rehabilitation and maintenance of
strategic roads and to allocate resources in conformity with the PIP.
Finally, the project will also supportthe long term institutional development strategy for the Departnent of
Roads (DOR), through continued assistancefor key areas of institutional strengthening and training, and
- 2 -



improved management of the strategic road network with attention to efficient financial and administrative
management practices
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
General. Road sector priorities for Government and donors during the last decade have targeted the
completion of the east-west highway, rehabilitating and maintaining the strategic network, building
farm-to-market roads in the Terai, and building the institutional capacity to manage an expanding network.
A sector investment strategy for the road sector has been developed during the preparation of the PIP which
calls for a balanced investment in rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets complemented with
cost-effective and environmentally sound construction and maintenance approaches for feeder roads.
Prioritization of Public Expenditures and Sector Revenues. The PIP for the road sector completed in
February 1997 with IDAs assistance identified priority projects for sustainable development of the
strategic and rural road network for the period of 1997-2006. The PIP assessed resource constraints and
funding requirements, sustainability of investment projects in Nepal, and the environmental impact and
policy considerations of road investments and maintenance. Following the completion of the PIP, it has
gained acceptance from Government, the Bank and other donor agencies, and it has now been adopted as
the guide or plan for road development activities during the next decade. The completion of the PIP
supports effective utilization of scarce public resources. DOR has improved its capacities to prioritize and
execute maintenance, in an effort towards rationalizing public expenditures in the sector. With respect to
sector revenues, road user charges in Nepal go directly to the Treasury but in general cover sector
requirements. Currently, the main road user revenues are fuel tax and vehicle licenisng, taxes and duties. A
modest complement to the road user revenues has been established by a toll road fund enacted by Law in
1995. The current toll revenues only amount to about 2-3% of maintenance requirements and HMG/N is
currently considering expanding toll collection. A more substantial approach to capture additional
revenues for the sector is being developed by the Implementation Committee to develop a Roads Board and
Fund Act, which will be supported by the project and increase the efficiency of road sector revenues and
expenditures.
Private Sector Involvement. The Government is trying to encourage private sector investment to develop
commercial infrastructure projects. However, it is still not envisaged that with the low level of traffic
private sector investments become a viable alternative for road construction or maintenance. Under the
RMRP private sector contractors have been encouraged to enhance their capabilities and carry out the civil
works financed by the Bank through competitive processes. Moreover, project management assistance has
been made available to contractors through the projects internationally experienced supervision
consultants.
Coordination with Other Institutions. Substantial efforts have been required to coordinate donor inputs
into the sector and an effective donor group has been in operation during the last 8 years. During the
on-going RMRP and the preparation of the PIP, participation and consultation were obtained from the key
financing institutions, including the Asian Development Bank (ADB), SDC, DffD & the UNDP. The
on-going RMRP is the first multi-donor co-financed road sector project in the country and the coordination
with DffD and SDC is expected to continue. While IDA' focus would be on sectoral policies, the civil
works financed under the proposed project will affect primarily the road network west of Kathmnandu.
Other New Issues. IDA should continue to pursue the agenda of civil service reform in the road sector as
a key element of policy dialogue with EIMG/N. Good governance and combating issues of corruption need
to be addressed and promoted in Nepal. In view of the frequent changes in counterparts, HMG/N
- 3 -



commitments have been sought early during project preparation to ensure a certain level of institutional
strengthening and sustainability, staff continuity for preparation and project management policies across
departments in DOR.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The PIP study proposed an optimum balance between maintaining the core road network and new road
development efforts. It also recommended priorities for both the expansion of the strategic network and the
rural road network. The proposed Road Maintenance and Development (RMD) Project, will be a natural
follow-up of the ongoing RMRP and would build upon the PIP focusing on the strategic network, providing
a tool to implement the Government' road sector development strategy, and continuing efforts on
institutional strengthening and training. The proposed project would provide assistance to HMG in
implementing this strategy by addressing the following main issues:
Road Management and Finance: As part of a world-wide trend of commercializing road management the
project contains a policy component which aims at establishing ajoint government/private sector roads
board overseeing the collection and expenditures of road user funds for the maintenance of both the
strategic and the local government road networks. The Nepal Roads Board Act to be passed by parliament
will assist to establish an adequate and stable source of funding of aintenance, and will strengthen the
sector oversight and the effectiveness and efficiency of road maintenance expenditures. The proposed
Nepal Roads Board will assist in improving fiscal discipline in the sector, developing and monitoring
3-year rolling plans, and implementing performance indicators tying inputs to outputs for both maintenance
and development expenditures.
Maintenance: Effective planned maintenance needs to be carried out in roads that are in a maintainable
state to begin with. The proposed project will rehabilitate the remaining portions of the strategic network
which are still in a poor condition at the end of the RMRP. It will also continue to provide assistance to
strengthen DOR' maintenance capabilities through the different initiatives started during the RMRP and
snown to be effective such as the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit (MRCU) and the
Strengthened Maintenance Division (SMD) program. The MRCU has been effectively assisting in the
policy, programming and prioritization of maintenance and the SMD is increasing the accountability of the
divisions for the maintenance of the strategic network under their control. Inevitably this will lead to a
more effective use of maintenance funding.
Decentralization Due to the limited capacity for rural road construction and maintenance in the Ministry of
Local Development (MLD), as well as in district and village development committees, most responsibilities
for local roads used to fall on DOR. Recently, HMG has established a Department in MLD pepartment of
Local Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads- DOLIDAR) responsible for village and district
roads. DOR is in the process of handing over the local road network which will allow it to concentrate on
the strategic roads (highways and feeder roads) with greater efficiency. The project will continue to
support institutional strengthening and training of DOR in the regions and district levels.
Participation: The past experience in Nepal has shown that a key element in the sustainability of roads
built with community participation is a sense of local ownership. The project will ensure that the road
selection process for the road development component has been coordinated by DOR and has involved
District and Village Development Committees (i.e, DDCs and VDCs) according to criteria put forward by
the PIP, establishing a sense of local ownership, leading to increased community participation and a sense
of the value of future maintenance.
-4 -



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-     % of
Component                  Sector       Costs      % of    financing   Bank-.
(USSM)   Total    (US$M)  financing
1. Policy Reform including support to                0.40        0.6      0.40       0.7
setup a Roads Board, amend
regulatory framework and develop the
Road Fund
2. Dry-weather feeder road                          45.80       69.5     36.60      67.2
canstruction (197 km) and upgadingto
gavel standard (253 km) including
resettlement assistance, environmental
menitoring, technical assistance for
design, project coordination &
construction supervision, and land
acquisition
3. Rehabilitation of 160 km of                        6.80      10.3      5.70      10.5
strategic highway and feeder road
network
4. Periodic maintenance of strategic                  6.60      10.0      5.50      10.1
roads (470 km)
5. Institutional strengthening and                   4.80        7.3      4.80       8.8
training of DORIMOWT, third party
audit of works by CTES, pre-
investment studies, socio-economic
studies, office improvements
modernization and equipment
6. Project Preparation Facility                       1.50       2.3      1.50       2.8
Total Project Costs                  65.90     100.0     54.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                  65.90      100.0     54.50     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Implementation of the PIP, strengthening of institutional capabilities and maintenance effectiveness in
DOR, and operationalization of the road fund.
Approval of the Nepal Roads Board Act which would lead to the establishment of a Roads Board and a
Road Fund. The purpose of the act would be to increase funding for road maintenance of both the strategic
and the local government networks through enhanced road user contribution (mainly through a fuel levy
and a possible heavy vehicle tax) and through enhanced efficiency of expenditures. Under the act a joint
private sector/government oversight board with a small executive management unit would be created, as
well as a Road Fund which would gradually be increased to finally cover all required maintenance
- 5-



expenditures, including routine, periodic, recurrent and emergency maintenance.
Institutional strengthening and training of DOR in support of the institutional development strategy of
DOR. DOR is currently in a transitional stage, from a public oriented, traditional, government organization
to a private oriented, modem one. The project would assist DOR to continue implementing its institutional
development plan and priorities (details in Annex 11). The institutional strengthening and training
components will build upon the institutional achievements of the on-going RMRP, which has been
co-financed by IDA, DFID and SDC closed in June 1999.
3. Benefits and target population:
a) Lower freight and passenger transport costs for road users, with resulting benefits in fares, price of
goods and reduction
of transport bottlenecks affecting economic development;
(b) Better accessibility to district headquarters to improve standards of living of rural population;
(c) More effective management and sustainable maintenance of Nepals road assets;
(d) Generation of employment opportunities in rural areas.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Department of Roads (DOR) will be the implementing agency. The implementation of the project
components will be programmed, coordinated and monitored by the Foreign Cooperation Branch, Deputy
Director General (DDG), Department of Roads, as Program Coordinator fully responsible for all project
components, including, but not limited to, planning, supervising, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management reporting, procurement, and implementation of civil works and institutional strengthening and
training. The Program Coordinator will be assisted by the Project Coordination and Implementation Unit
(PCU), including two Senior Divisional Engineers (one of which will be designated as Procurement
Engineer). DOR has already established the PCU. Staff of the PCU will also include an Environmental
Engineer, an Accounts Offcer, an Accuntant and a Scial Planner. During implementation, the PCU will
be responsible for coordinating the implementation of the various project components, and would ensure
that the institutional and training components are developed in complete coordination with the needs of the
policy and physical aspects of the project. The physical components would be implemented as follows: (i)
one Senior Divisional Engineer at the PCU will be responsible for the implementation of the New Road
Development and Upgrading Componpent (NRDUC), (ii) one Senior Divisional Engineer will be responsible
for procurement and the Rehabilitation Component, (iii) the Regional Directors under the DDG
Maintenance, will be responsible for the implementation of the periodic maintenance component in each
Region through the Divisions, and (iv) the DDG Planning will be responsible for coordinating,
implementing and monitoring along with the Road Sector Skills Development Unit (RSSDU),
Geo-environmental Unit (GEU), MRCU and the Mechanical Training Center (MTC) the institutional
strengthening and training component of the project. Until the Nepal Roads Board is established, DOR will
finance consultant services to assist the Road Management and Finance Refonn Implementation Committee
in carrying out the activities under the policy component of the project. Afterwards, the Nepal Roads Board
will carry out the policy reform component. The DDGs for Planning, Design and Maintenance will prepare
and submit timely reporting to the PCU for consolidation of periodic reports to IDA. The Project
Managers of the NRDUC and Rehabilitation Components shall coordinate with the respective Regional
Directors for the implementation of the program. The institutional strengthening activities will be
coordinated with DfID and SDC as a follow-up of the efforts already undertaken in the completed RMRP
(including MRCU, TESU and SMD).
The PCU will have responsibility for the project's management including engineering and procurement,
-6 -



maintenance, land acquisition, implementation of resettlement and environmental action plans, institutional
development plan, financial management, planning and accounting, etc..The PCU will carry out all
procurement related decisions in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement, and will oversee the
timely and adequate implementation of procurement activities with the assistance of the supervision
consultants and the institutional development consultants. The Procurement Engineer in the PCU will be
the focal point to assist with developing procurement capacities of the various implementation units,
supporting the training and capacity building of the project managers on procurement matters and setting
up a Procurement Unit in DOR during the project life (Annex 6).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The PIP prepared a 10-year investment plan for the road sector, including both the strategic road network
(national highways and feeder roads) and rural transport components (district roads, main trails, suspension
bridges and domestic aviation). The PIP assessed and recommended the optimal balance of expenditures
between new construction, improvement, and maintenance activities, and deterrnined a balance between
national and local level inputs. The main road options considered were analyzed in the PIP in terms of their
cost-effectiveness, environmental adaptability and resource constraints. The roads in the project support
the PIP. Moreover, during preparation, DOR and its Consultants have assessed various road standards in
the economic, environmental, social and technical evaluation of each road. The design of each project
component has taken into consideration recent experiences in Nepal for low-cost roads (new construction
and upgrading), and maintenance (resealing and rehabilitation).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects onl
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bridge replacement road maintenance First Highway (Credit 223)   N/A           N/A
Upgrading of 18 km road, feeder road  Second Highway (Cr. 730)   N/A           N/A
construction, training of mechanics
Road and feeder road construction  Third Highway (Cr. 1515)        S            S
Emergency rehabilitation and     Road Flood Rehabilitation (Cr.    S            S
rebuilding of roads and bridges   1922)
Maintenance and rehabilitation of the  Road Maintenance and        S            S
core network (DflD/SDC/UNDP)     Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.2578)
Improvement of Nepal extemal trade  Multimodal transit and trade   S            S
infrastructure                   facilitation (Cr.3008)
Infrastructure - PER             Public Expenditure Review
- 7 -



Other development agencies
ADB - Maint. Rehab. of core network  Third Road Maintenance
ADB - Rural Infrastructure        Rural Infrastructure
Development Project
SDC- Highway rehabilitation      Arniko Highway Project, SMD,
District Road Support Program
DfID (ODA)                       Eastern Region Road
Maintenance (ERROM)
GTZ                              Gorkha, Dhading-District Dev.
Programs
Japan - Construction of gravel road    Dhulikhel - Sindhuli Road
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Given the long standing assistance of the World Bank for the road sector in Nepal, there are important
lessons learned in particular in the areas of public and private sector management capabilities,
environmental and social assessment, and the construction industry.
Sector Management Capabilities. Project implementation and preparation in the past was often delayed as
a result of slow govemment decision making under an environment of political instability. Substantial
efforts are underway, in partnership with the SDC and Df[D, as part of the ongoing RMRP to assist the
DOR to improve its road maintenance management capacity, planning and monitoring capability, and
environmental and traffic safety practices. These efforts have been made through a series of specialized
training and studies, services of in-house technical and policy advisors, and technical reviews and audits as
part of project monitoring and evaluation. As a result, DOR has been able to develop and improve its basic
capabilities to better manage the road capital and resources allocated to the sector. Among others, the
RMRP has supported (i) a Road Sector Skills Development Unit (RSSDU) to address human resource
constraints, (ii) a labor-based pilot project with community-participation which was introduced for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads, and has shown good results in the development of
institutional and planning capability at the district level, and (iii) a Strengthened Maintenance Division
project to improve the capacity to plan, program and execute maintenance at the division level. Through the
preparation and adoption of the PIP, IDA also has supported the introduction and dissemination of
planning tools for government agencies responsible for road transport. These initiatives should be further
supported.
Environmental Assessment. During the past 5 years substantial progress has been made in bolstering local
capacities for environmental assessment, geo-technical and bio-engineering with the establishment of the
GEU in the DOR. This unit has generated interest among the engineers of DOR and is now an example in
the region. The unit has been successful starting to train and deliver the message to DOR staff of the
relevance and importance of addressing environmental aspects of road sector activities early on and
throughout the project cycle. More recently DOR has prepared Environmental Assessment Guidelines
which includes an excellent presentation of simple and practical information on environmental processes,
mitigation measures and sensitive areas. The interest of the Department in involving all of its engineers in
bio-engineering is now expanding to environmental assessment which will certainly give the DOR a
leadership role on this matters. The checklists are now models being used in other countries.
Private Sector Involvement in Road Construction and Consulting. There are positive achievements in the
- 8 -



road construction and maintenance industry and consultant services sector over the past five years: (i) local
private sector is taking a much stronger role, (ii) DOR has improved its construction management of
privately implemented works, (iii) commercialization of government construction equipment has
encouraged contractors to buy their own equipment and improve equipment maintenance, (iv) divisions are
taking stronger decentralized role in managing minor works and contracting out even routine maintenance,
(v) roadside environmental practices have improved, and (vi) districts have begun to develop capacity for
road planning and labor-based contracting of works. At the same time, there are some problem areas in the
road construction industry, including: (i) contractors need to manage their work better, (ii) contractors need
to treat workers fairly and equitably, (iii) consultants need to bring more efficiency to their design and
supervision of works, (iv) HMG procurement decision-making is slow, (v) Government delays in payments
and release of funds for works lead to inefficiencies, (vi) contractors with a unsatisfactory track record
should not be eligible for IDA financed works, and (vii) privatization of government equipment and
mechanical training programs should be accelerated. Finally, IDA has also introduced changes to help
encourage efficiency in the implementation of works which will be supported under the project including:
(i) an increasing proportion of oversight for project supervision, including procurement support and quality
inspections, is being carried out from the Field Office, (ii) IDA is generally not accepting extensions of bid
validity beyond 60 days, and is declaring misprocurement when bids are not awarded in this period, (iii)
IDA has encouraged Borrowers to make careful scrutiny of the track record of firms during
pre-qualification and post-qualification. In cases where the Borrower has documented evidence of firms
having non-performance or poor performance on past contracts, IDA has accepted the position taken by
Borrowers to disqualify firms based on that past performance. HMG would undertake to have an annual
summary of non-performing contractors.
Moreover, and based on the experience gained from implementing road projects in Nepal, the preparation
and implementation of the proposed operation will incorporate the following lessons: (a) environmental,
social and institutional aspects of the project will require to be comprehensively prepared with substantial
participatory approaches; (b) strengthening of basic institutional capacities for effective project
management need to be prepared and implemented early in the life of the project; (c) procurement
capabilities need to be bolstered from project design, with initial contracts based on completed designs,
strict qualification criteria and awards planned before project effectiveness; and (d) encourage efforts to
have timely availability of project sites. Furthermore, the project will continue adopting international
standards for preparation of feasibility, design, procurement planning, environmental planning and social
impact studies.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has supported the preparation of the PIP and adopted the PIP as the main road sector
plan. HMG/N has allocated resources from the ongoing RMRP and a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to
finance feasibility and final engineering of the road maintenance and development works. DOR has
established an effective team for project preparation which has adhered to the original preparation plan.
-9-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The implementation of the RMRP, which includes an important institutional development component and a
pilot labor-based component, provides the basis on which IDA can design a natural follow-up operation in
Nepal. Based on this and other relevant project experience, the Bank will be able to assist HMG/N in
finding a balanced approach regarding investment, management and financing which is reflected in the
project design and implementation. IDA would also provide support to Govemrnent and private sector for
the road finance reform initiative based on experience in Nepal and elsewhere. Furthermore, IDA can
provide HMG/N with valuable experience from the preparation of similar projects in the sub-continent.
Also, the Bank will emphasize best practice' in road construction and management by supporting the
employment of consultants to carry out (i) appropriate supervision of construction and maintenance works;
(ii) procurement, and (iii) dispute resolution.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost beneft    NPV-US$41 million; ERR = 28.2 %
O Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
The economic analyses were undertaken separately for the three different civil works components of the
project. For the new road construction and upgrading component, the analysis was based on the "Nepal:
Road Maintenance and Development Project: Final Report - Economic Aspect" of June 1999, which
included the screening and feasibility study for construction of about 320 km and upgrading of 250 km of
dry-weather roads. For the road rehabilitation component, a feasibility update was carried out on about 165
km of strategic roads during April-July 1999 following the earlier feasibility studies compIeted in
1996/1997. For the periodic maintenance component, a network-based prioritization exercise was
conducted by DOR which gave rise to a prioritized resealing program for DOR's paved strategic road
network, covering a total of about 3,000 km of strategic highways. The feasibility study of the periodic
maintenance component was based on the "Strategic Road Network Resealing Program for RMDP" dated
November 24, 1998.
a. New Road Development and Upgrading Component. The economic appraisal was undertaken using a
Vehicle Operating Costs in Nepal (VOCN) modekalibrated to Nepal's operating environmen,twhich was
developed using an earlier version of the VOC module of the Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM-III)
model as a foundation. The VOCN was initially used in the PIP study, and was updated and modified by
the consultant for the project analysis to include a module to compute benefits to normal and generated
traffic on newly constructed roads. Traffic projection in the "with project" scenario consisted of the growth
of normal, diverted and generated traffic. Growth projections were made taking into account population and
income growth rates, population-based traffic generation factors, price and income elasticity of demand,
and regional development effects as a result of the road development progranProject benefits also took
account of personal time values for both work-related and no-work-related tripsas well as motorized and
non-motorized trips Construction costs included civil works, design and supervision, land acquisition and
social resettlement, environmental mitigation measures, and physical contingencies. Agricultural producers'
surplus was estimated for all project roads, as they all pass predominantly agricultural areas. As a result of
reduced transport costs and improved rainy season access to markets, it is envisaged that production of
certain crops will be increased. The net economic surplus values of these increased production quantity
would constitute part of the project benefits. The economic rates of retuam for the eight links to be included
in the project ranged from 12% to 96%. The ERR and NPV of the component are 23.3% and NRs 1,867
million, respectively. In addition to quantifiable benefits, the project is also expected to generate some
- 10-



positive social and economic benefits to the regions that are difficult to quantify.
b. Road Rehabilitation Component. The economic analysis of the rehabilitation component has consisted
of updating existing feasibility analyses carried out earlier for the three roads: Tansen-Syangja,
Harthok-Tamghas, and Lumbini-Taulihawa. To supplement the existing traffic and engineering data,
additional traffic surveys and engineering surveys were undertaken, and cost estimates updated to 1999
price level. Subsequently, the economic feasibility updating was undertaken. Project benefits include
savings in VOC and maintenance costs. The three roads studied were selected for rehabilitation under the
project, based on the optimal economic indicators of the rehabilitation options. The ERR and NPV of the
component are 17.3% and NRs 122 million, respectively.
c. Periodic Maintenance Component The prioritization exercise was carried out using HDM-Ill to
develop a resealing program for all paved roads under DOR's responsibility. Data was drawn from the
Highway Management Information System (HMIS) for each link in the strategic network, and they include
AADT, IRI and surface distress index, road length, and other historical data, mostly from DOR's surveys
conducted in 1996/1997. The surveys are continuing annual exercises and results are used to update the
resealing program. The road selection and economics analysis for this component was based on th-
Strategic Road Network Resealing Program for RMDP"dated November 24, 1998 prepared by
DOR/MRCU. The Program covered a seven-year period (1998/99-2004/05) to assess resealing
requirements of the paved portion of the strategic road network totaling some 3,063 km. The Program was
developed on the basis of the DOR's maintenance strategy which emphasizes planning for cyclical resealing
requirements. Roads in the hill region assume a cyclical resealing requirement of every 5 years, while roads
in the terai (plains) region every 6 years. Traffic volume on the road links included in this component
varied between 500 to 1,950 AADT. The "without project" scenario refers to undertaking of routine
maintenance plus 1% patching. The "with project" case refers to routine maintenance, patching, plus
resealing in the year 2000. The results of the evaluation served as the basis for deriving the prioritized
resealing program for each road link, adjusted for cyclical requirements, and practicalities of contract
packaging. Based on DOR's Resealing Program, a total ofabout 470 km priority roads have been identified
for inclusion in the projectduring a five-year implementation period (FY 1999/2000 to FY 2003/2004.)
The ERRs of resealing these links ranged from 24% to 184%. The ERR and NPV of the component were
estimated to be 61% and Rs. 827 million, respectively.
Combining the three components, the project's EIRR and NPV were estimated to be 28.2% and US$ 41
million, respectively.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
During the past five years the allocations and expenditures for periodic and recurrent maintenance of the
strategic road sector have been gradually increased (see table below), as a result of combined efforts by
Government and donors supporting the on-going RMRP. The allocations for these types of essential
maintenance (i.e., periodic and recurrent) have also increased as a percentage of road sector revenues
(vehicle duties and taxes, fuel tax, road and bridge maintenance tax). Routine maintenance allocations,
however, have been maintained at a very low level for many years (i.e., between NRs 30-40 million per
year) which is clearly insufficient to attend the requirements. The trend to increase overall allocations for
road maintenance (commensurate with the needs of the strategic roads), and the regularity of fiscal
transfers, needs to be supported and continued throughout the project life to improve sustainability of road
sector expenditures.
Nepal - Road Sector Revenues, Maintenance Allocations and Expenditures (NRs million)
- 11 -



19992/93   1993/94    1994/95   1995/96     1996/97
Road Sector Revenue         1,351      1,428      1,744      2,059      2,321
Periodic,     Allocations    180       220        320        486        525
Emergency and
Recurrent     Expenditures   130       149        314        375        393
MaintenanceIIIII
Expenditures as % of Revenues   9.6%   10.4%      18.0%      18.2%      16.9%
At the same time that road maintenance allocations have been increased, the planning and programming of
maintenance for the strategic road network has been improving. The focus point in DOR for these efforts
has been the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit funded by SDC and DfID (funded until
Dec. 1999 and future funding to be discussed in a future Workshop), and Phase 2 of the Strengthened
Maintenance Divisions (funded by SDC). The latter program has developed a well structured
programming capability for routine maintenance which is essential for the upkeeping of road assets in
Nepal.
During appraisal, agreements were reached with HMGN on annual allocations for periodic and recurrent
maintenance for each year of the project period. The allocations would be financed through a combination
of the general revenue allocation and the proposed road fund.
Fiscal Impact:
As seen in the table below, the project counterpart funding requirements and maintenance funding
requirements are manageable within the envelope of total road sector allocations specified in the 9th Five
Year Plan. Even though the sector allocations included in the Plan appear to be on the high side, the
project requirements (i.e., counterpart and maintenance funding) would not appropriate more than 15% of
total road sector allocations assuming the allocations remain at the 1999/2000 level.
Nepal - Planned Road Sector Allocations, Project and Maintenance Expenditures
lNRs miltion)
1999/2000   2000/2001  2001/2002  2002/2003   2003/2004
l. Total Road Sector         5,840       8,760      10,512     14,720     19,130
Allocations (gh Plan)
2. RMDP related Expenditures  750         1,200      1,350     1,000        120
in Development Budget                _
3. Counterpart funding for     138        224        288        133         30
RMDP
4. Routine, Periodic, Recurrent  700      850        950        1,050      1,150
and Emergency Maintenance
Funding Requirement for
Strategic Road Network
(Covenant)
3. Technical:
The main civil works component of the project involves constructing and upgrading priority feeder road
sections of national road network, to increase rural access and reduce vehicle operating costs. Many of the
existing feeder roads to be upgraded have substantial deficiencies in pavement strength, road width,
geometric standards and drainage. The proposed works have been designed to avoid or minimize negative
- 12-



social and environmental impacts, and where possible to enhance the roadside environment.
The project will emphasize incorporation of environmental safeguards in road construction and upgrading
and will built on the substantial experience in Nepal in adapting environmentally friendly methods to
construct and maintain roads in the Himalayas. Engineering studies have been undertaken by a team of
international and domestic consulting engineers, using modem survey and design technology. Work
specifications, bid packages and pre-qualification criteria are designed to attract a combination of (i)
well-qualified contractors with appropriate construction equipment and experience and (ii) community
based contractors. Construction supervision will be the responsibility of internationally-experienced and
local consultants.
Maintenance of existing roads in Nepal has improved during recent years but there is still room for
improvement in maintenance funding and effectiveness of road maintenance operations. The maintenance
component of the project has been prepared analyzing overall maintenance needs of strategic road network
(based on the HMIS pavement management model developed by DOR and taking into account the up to
date information on road condition). The maintenance component will focus primarily on patching, profile
correction, surfacing, shoulders and road signs and markings, with limited quantities provided as necessary
for high-priority repairs to roadside drainage and structures. The roads to b included in the maintenance
component have been selected according to economic priorities and the program size has been defined
within a budget constraint.
The project will assist DOR in the implementation of a maintenance program, with particular emphasis on
more systematic utilization of maintenance planning processes, and managing the quality of maintenance
operations. This will be coordinated through the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit
(MRCU) of DOR.
The effectiveness of maintenance programs will be monitored throughout the life of the project to assess
construction quality, effective life of various treatments, and overall changes in road asset conditions. The
monitoring program will include an annual survey of road and visual condition rating on at least 50% of
National Highways and Feeder Roads, and dissemination of the results available in a public Road
Condition Report.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Department of Roads (DOR) will be the implementing agency.
b. Project management:The implementation of the project components will be programmed, coordinated
and monitored by the Foreign Cooperation Branch, Deputy Director General, Department of Roads with
the assistance of the Project Coordination and Implementation Unit (see implementation arrangements).
The financial management and auditing arrangements are detailed below in Section (d) and further in
Annex 5.
c. Institutional Strengthening & Training: MOWT and DOR have prepared an internal assessment to
determine the priority requirements for institutional strengthening and training over the next five years, and
identified key areas to be supported by IDA. Considering the institutional strengthening and training
requirements of both DOR and MOWT in support of the institutional development strategy, and taking into
consideration the assistance expected to be provided by other donors, during appraisal it was agreed that
the IDA financed institutional strengthening and training activities in the project will include: (i)
strengthening the human resource development initiatives in DOR, (ii) expanding the GEU in DOR to
develop environmental and social assessment and monitoring and evaluation capabilities for road sector
- 13 -



activities, (iii) provide local expertise support to the Mechanical Training Center (MTC), and (iv) establish
the Chief Technical Examiner Section (CTES) in MOWT to carry-out third party operational audits of
road sector operations. These efforts are complementary to the activities of the Maintenance Rehabilitation
and Coordination Unit (SDC and DfID) and the Strengthened Maintenance Divisions Program (SDC).
The above objectives would be achieved through institutional strengthening and training efforts (see more
details of each component in Annex 1 1), including: (l) support to the Road Sector Skills Development Unit
(RSSDU) training activities for DOR and MOWT; (2) establishment of a social section within GEU and
strengthening of its existing environmental section; (3) assisting the MTC to continue its training activities
with an emphasis on commercialization and training of private sector operators and mechanics; and (4)
assisting in establishing a technical audit capacity at the CTES of MOWT, which would also oversee the
implementation of third party operational audits of DORS RMDP operations. Additional undertakings to
be financed by the project would include (i) training of local contractors, Community Based Organizations
and DOR staff in labor based road construction, (ii) preparation of pre-investment studies, (iii)
socio-economic studies, and (iv) training in procurement and project management reporting for staff from
MOF, OAG, FCGO and MLJ. During negotiations it was agreed that the institutional strengthening
component will also finance services to support the streamlining and integration of plannning and
programming of maintenance as part of an agreed exit strategy of MRCU.
Project inputs to assist with implementation of this strategy would include: (a) provision of technical
assistance to DOR (RSSDU, GEU, MTC, Planning, Design and Maintenance Branches) and technical
assistance to the CTES (including periodic Third Party Operational Audits), (b) in-country and overseas
training linking efforts with local institutions, (c) procurement of training aids, equipment for office
modernization and vehicles for field visits; and (d) improvements to DOR' training facilities at Kurintar
and to MOWTIDOR main office facilities.
The main outcomes of the institutional strengthening and training initiatives would include:
e a human resources development policy and strategy, staff development program and training plans in
place and being implemented.
- Systems and procedures for preparation of environmental and social assessments and action plans in
place.
. Environmental and Resettlement Actions Plans (EMAPs and RAPs) being prepared and implemented.
* Marketing program for commercialization of MTC operations in place and being implemented.
* Technical audit policies, systems and procedures in place and audits being implemented.
* Procedures for third party operational audits in place and audits completed for RMDP.
d. Accounting and Financial Reporting Arrangements A financial management system review of
DOR was carried out (See Annex 5). The financial control environment in Nepal has been weakened by
the transfer of responsibility of the control and management of accounts staff from the Financial
Comptroller General's Office (FCGO) to the Ministry of General Administration (MOGA) as explained
below, and organizational risks are present in the short-term in the context of still insufficient monitoring
and reporting capacity of DOR for PMR-based disbursements (which assumes project and financial
management responsibility through the PCU) during the initial phase of project implementation. However,
since DOR has a rich experience of implementing several donor financed projects including IDA,
organizational risks are minimum and there is adequate scope built in the project for strengthening its
financial management capacity. In order to mitigate institutional development risks, capacity for financial
management is being built up in accordance with a time-bound action plan which includes the timely
recruitment and placement of key staff in the PCU and the field Project Implementation Units (PIUs)It
- 14 -



was agreed that
(i) Financial management staff satisfactory to IDA will be appointed and maintained during project
implementation;
(ii) HMG/N will not replace key staff in the PCU (Project Coordinator and accounts staff) except
as required by applicable law, and
(iii) Evidence of appointment of an Accounts Officer and an Accountant meeting the criteria as
described in the Financial Assessment Report, satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness. In
addition, at the start of implementation DOR will appoint a skilled computer technician to support a fully
computerized system in the PCU and to operate the computerized Financial Management Information
System which will be developed under technical assistance component.
The financial management system review concluded that the DOR still does not have all the necessary
financial management capacity in place to be eligible for PMR-based disbursements. The action plan
outlining activities that must be undertaken during project implementation in order to strengthen the
financial management reporting capacity of the PCU was agreed upon between HMG/N and IDA. Until
the PCU has the capacity to deliver the Project Management Reports (PMRs) as per LACI requirements,
existing disbursement procedures will be followed. IDA will review the progress made in establishing a
strong financial management system after about a year, and will ascertain whether the Project is then
eligible for PMR-based disbursements. However, the PCU will report to HMG/N and IDA in the mutually
agreed format of PMRs. During the interim period, the PCU will produce the following PMR statements:
Financial Statement (Report 1-A) and Procurement Management Reports (Section 3), to be confirmed at
negotiations.
The recent transfer of responsibility for the control and managemenbf the accounting cadre of staff from
the FCGO to the MOGA has created a potential country risk to the project. However, FCGO retains
overall responsibility and accountability for public financial management including maintaining central
accounts (including donor accounts) and preparing the national accounts for timely external audit by the
Auditor General. Unless the responsibility of control and management of accounts staff is reverted back to
FCGO, this risk remains. A further risk is the timely submission of accounts by the PCU, and completion
of audit and submission of audit report within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Trimester project
management reports which will be prepared by the PCU, will be valuable for progress monitoring and will
be subject to close review and supervision by IDA. This will allow prompt follow-up to bring to
Govemment's attention to any ongoing problems in the project's accounting, internal controls and financial
reporting. An implementation completion report will be prepared by the DOR six months before the
closing of the project.
Disbursements. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will allocate annual budgets to the project as envisaged
in the annual work plan and budget agreed between HMG/N and IDA. HMG/N will include this project
under the list of core projects, and will commit for timely release of funds. The DOR will allocate adequate
resources to the PCU which will include qualified staff, equipment and budget, to administer overall project
coordination. The PCU will be responsible for overall project administration and management, which
include programming, budgeting, contract administration, and monitoring of project progress and
submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs) to HMG/N and IDA. The PCU will be sufficiently
equipped and will have the required number of staff (technical, administrative and financial). The actual
implementation of the individual projects will be carried out through a number of field based DOR staff
(PIUs). Disbursements will be made on the basis of a percentage of eligible expenditures according to
- 15 -



Schedule I of DCA. The statement of expenditures (SOE) procedure will be used.
Special Account. A Special Account in US dollars will be established at the Nepal Rastra Bank (Central
Bank) on terns and conditions satisfactory to IDA. For the interim period, until IDA disbursements are
based on the PMR, the account will have an authorized limit of US$2,000,000 and will follow the existing
disbursement procedure. The PCU will submit replenishment applications for the Special Account on a
monthly basis, or when 25% of the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first. The
replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary documentation which include a bank
statement and a reconciliation statement.
Auditing Arrangements. Audit reports of the recently completed Cr. 2578-NEP have been reviewed and
are acceptable. Project financial statements, prepared in the formats agreed with IDA, will be audited
annually by the Auditor General of Nepal who is considered an independent auditor for IDA's purposes.
Audit reports will be due within six months of the end of each fiscal year. All records including contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other relevant documents evidencing all expenditures will be kept
properly and the Bank' representative will have the access to them for the purpose of examination.
5. Social:
Key Social Issues: The project involves resettlement mainly along 197 km of new feeder road construction
(within a new public Right of Way), and to a lesser extent along 253 km of existing feeder roads which will
be upgraded (re-established Right of Way) and along 100 km of highway rehabilitation works (established
Right of Way). There are no land acquisition/resettlement issues in the periodic maintenance component.
A detailed social assessment has been undertaken for the new/upgrading (and to a lesser extent for the
rehabilitation component) during project preparation to study potential impacts, identify and recommend
mitigation mechanisms, improve project design, and develop a full Resettlement Action Plan in compliance
with Bank and Government guidelines. The projectrs Social Assessment Category is A (i.e. a project with
potential social risk). The project is expected to provide high social benefits through better access to social
and economic services, reduced transport costs, and some employment to local economies (confirmed by
local stakeholder discussions). Such positive impacts outweigh the direct negate impacts, though
mitigation measures have been carefully considered as described below. Kegocial impacts/issues which
are being considered in the project include: (i) land acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R), (ii)
indigenous peoples issues, (iii) stakeholder participation and consultation, (iv) labor issues, (v) road safety
issue, and (vi) other socio-economic impacts. During preparation, substantial attention has been paid to
social considerations through a social assessment process, which closely interacted with other dimensions
including engineering, economics and environment.
Social Assessment: The project's Social Assessment, conducted for new roads and upgrading component
(also conducted if required for the rehabilitation component), included assessment of social impacts of the
project and development of appropriate mitigation plans in accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directives 4.30 and 4.20. The social impact assessment and resettlement planning component consisted of:
(i) early screening and social impact assessment as part of project feasibility studies (by using districts'
socioeconomic status and potential social impact as one of screening criteria), (ii) public consultation, (iii)
preparation of a project specific resettlement and rehabilitation entitlement framework consistent with
Government and Bank policies, (iv) census and baseline socio-economic survey of the potentially affected
population; and (v) preparation of a time-bound Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
The main (6) socio-economic issues are addressed below:
- 16 -



a. Key Resettlement & Rehabilitation Issues Through comprehensive screening and local consultation
in parallel with engineering design and environmental consideration, the project preparation has minimized
cases where land acquisition may be required, or where there may be other losses of assets or resources.
To minimize negative impacts the project has taken the corridor of impact (COI) approach, i.e. land
acquisition and resettlement to be limited, in principle, to the COI of 15 m for new roads and existing road
formation plus a safety zone for upgrading roads, as opposed to legal right of way (ROW) of 30 to 50 m.
An Entitlement Policy Framework for the project which details compensation and rehabilitation
arrangements has been cleared by IDA and the Government.
-Scope of Impact (i) New Road and Upgrading Component: The baseline survey (April 1999)
identified the scope of R&R as follows(Note: These figures were revised with the updated census of all
potential Project Affected Peoples [PAPs] completed in July 1999 and the final RAP. The figures below
have been updated to include the the impacts along all road segmentwhich have been surveyed).
Private Land to  Buildings to be  Displaced individuals  Potential PAPs (i.e.,
be acquired     acquired (incl.  (No. of households)    displaced plus those
residences)                          losing land and/or
commercial buildings)
New Roads            123.83 ha       404 (182)         1,901 (247)              30,931
Upgrading Roads        3.74 ha        105 (28)          281 ( 34)                4,651
Total                127.57 ha       509 (210)         2,182 (281)              35,582
Source: Final RAP, June 1999 and RAP (Addendum) July 1999.
The number of squatters and encroachers within the strip of 15 m for upgrading roads are recorded as 18.
The total estimated budget required for R&R is about US$ 2.2 million (i.e. 1.45 million for direct costs,
0.65 million for support and training, 0.1 million for contingencies). (ii) Rehabilitation Component: A
recent survey (April, 1999) identified that there are no significant direct adverse impact except that nineteen
buildings (including 11 residences) with 135 persons in Ridi Bazar and a local commercial center will be
affected by a new alignment. There will be about five households displaced. The total budget is estimated
at approximately US$ 0.17 million.
- Land Acquisition: Extensive stakeholder consultations identified that (i) land donations made to
date have not been properly documented in the land transfer record, hence, some are still paying taxes for
the donated land, and (ii) few households are willing to donate land when a 15 meter corridor of impact is
being considered. Therefore, the project ensures that: (i) sufficient information and an option to refuse
donation will be provided to PAPs so that they can make an informed decision, (ii) for PAPs under the
upgrading component, registration of the land donated in the past will be initiated (documentation of which
was already completed during project preparation), and (iii) institutional capacity of DOR, District Land
Revenue Office, and other concerned bodies will be strengthenedIn some cases, private lands are held
without legal titles when ownership is traditional or communal. Where untitled private lands or common
property with traditional usufruct rights are required by the project, DOR must also acquire them through
purchase, applying the same principles, provisions, and protections provided to title-holders under the Land
Acquisition Act.
- Upgrading Roads: About 250 km of upgrading roads are expected to be funded by the project.
Some of the upgrading road stretches are undergoing some construction/upgrading at present. As requested
by IDA, DOR has provided auequate documentation and registration of past land transfers for the potential
PAPs in the upgrading road sections.
- 17 -



- RAPP: A RAP was prepared based on a baseline survey of properties affected, stakeholder
consultations, and sample socio-economic survey. It includes the entitlement framework, institutional
arrangements, and cost estimates based on the sample socio-economic survey. The Bank endorsed the RAP
and RAP update. A workshop to present the draft RAP and EIA was organized with MOPE and MOWT
by the Consultants in April, 1999. The RAP was approved by the MOWT.
- Census Covering All Potential PAPs: The baseline census has been completed and reported in
the RAP and RAP update of July 1999. The three main objectives and types of information collected
through census are: (i) property and residence registrations with on-site verification in order to determine
eligibility for entitlements; (ii) property registration with on-site verification of possession or use of assets
in order to determine categories of entitlement; and (iii) on-site assessment of number and quality of assets
to provide basis for valuation and compensation.
- Institutional Arrangement for R&R: (i) Project level: A Social Unit will be created under the
PCU, consisting of one full-time social focal point from the GEU (TOR prepared) and a computer operator
managing PAP database. The unit will be supervised by the project manager and will coordinate R&R
preparation, implementation, and monitoring for all roads involving 11 DDCs/58 VDCs. It will be
supported intermittently by three Social Planners of the Supervision Consultant team (i.e., one international
and two local experts). To carry out Monitoring & Evaluation the unit will be assisted by an external
monitoring agent. For long term sustainability, the already established GEU will be strengthened to
address and manage social dimensions of road projects. The GEU would be reinforced with two Social
Planners (one international and one local) as part of a technical assistance (see also section C-2 on key
policy/institutional reforms);(ii) District Level: Compensation Determnination Committee, an
inter-departmental coordination body (involving Chief District Officer, Department of Land Revenue and
Surveys); (iii) VDC and Community level: a Local Consultative Forum (LCF) in each VDC (comprising
of DDC and VDC representatives, PAP representatives, representatives from women's groups, local user
groups, local NGOs, and government line agencies) will be a main community-based venue for
consultation, information dissemination, and grievance resolution.
b. Indigenous Peoples: Available data and documents suggest that the project area is largely inhabited by
the caste groups, and a number of various small ethnic groups. These ethnic groups fall within the
definition of "indigenous peoples" under O.D. 4.20, and they constitute the bulk of the expected
beneficiaries of the project. Also, the social assessment has concluded that there will be no
disproportionally adverse impact on certain ethnic groups over others. Therefore, the requirements of O.D.
4.20 are addressed by the design of the project itself, and no separate "indigenous peoples" plan is
necessary for any particular group. Moreover, the project has developed an M&E mechanism under the
RAP which will closely monitor any adverse impact on potentially vulnerable sub-groups (e.g. minority
ethnic groups, female headed household, small landholders, etc.). Measures to mitigate adverse impacts are
included in the RAP.
c. Participation and Consultationr (see section below E-7 on participatory approach)
d. Contracting and Employment Issues Temporary employment creation in rural areas (mainly for new
roads component) is one of the major development objectives of the project. In order to ensumquity of
such benefits being accrued to different segments of society (especially the poor and vulnerable groups) and
its sustainability, the following measures would be taken:
- Issue of local employment benefit: maximizing community involvement in road construction is
one of the major benefits envisaged under the proposed project using labor-based approaches for the new
- 18 -



road construction. The impact assessment identified that the major obstacles for contractors to hire local
labor are (i) their unavailability due to agricultural and other obligations and out-migration, and (ii) higher
wages expectations by local labors (40-80% difference). The project is designed to ensure tha(i) the
contracts for the new road component will include a Community Based Organization as nominated
sub-contractor for certain items in the bill of quantities to ensure a minimum percentage of local labor
(including adjacent districts) to be hired, (ii) local labor participation will be monitored closely by
Supervision Consultants, and (iii) formulation of road user groups as local labor groups to mobilize the
communities will be considered to the extent possible. Where possible Community Based Organizations
will be awarded directly small contracts.
- Wage related issues: Interviews with local contractors identified there is no gender
discrimination in wages when the same task is undertaken. On the other hand, household interviews and
group discussions among local communities suggested that there are some level of indifference to
employment on road projects and among local communities, mainly due to their concerns with fair wages
paid by contractors. Therefore, gender-based, foreign-local and other types of wage differentials will be
closely monitored during the project implementation through socio-economic surveys. For overall
accountability and transparency of contractor-labor relationship and quality of works, the application of an
operational audit will be implemented by the Chief Technical Examiner.
- Child labor will be closely monitored during supervision paying attention to the specific
contractual clauses incorporated in the sample bidding documents.
- Pooling of resourcesfor community purposes: The Green Road experience supported by some
bilateral donors (e.g., GTZ and Helvetas) has demonstrated limited success in which a small portion of
road wages are set aside for small savings schemes, which are then used to finance small-scale community
and family investments. During training for labor-based road construction an effort will be made to transfer
experiences from these projects.
e. Road Safety: Given the expected increased volume of traffic, road safety issues have been incorporated
into the engineering designs. Special road safety considerations are being made (e.g., safety zones are
being provided for people carrying heavy loads). Moreover, the DOR has established a unit for road safety
and traffic engineering. Nepal has established recently a National Road Safety Council and adopted a
Road Safety Policy. During appraisal a discussion was initiated on accessing financing from the Global
Road Safety Initiative which is being developed by the Bank.
f. Other Socio-economic Impac1s:
-Porters: Assessment from existing roads pointed out that the potential reduction in the use of
porter and other non-vehicular transport services due to new road construction may not be significant, since
increased imports of goods may expand their opportunities to convey goods to off-road settlements.
However, periodic monitoring both at community and project level will be necessary.
- Smugglers: Local communities also expressed concerns over increased smuggling of medicinal
plants and forest resources by outsiders. Local Consultative Forums (described above in R&R) will be used
to address such concerns and establish prevention and monitoring mechanisms.
- Gender Discrimination which is prevalent against women under the system ofjari or polyandry,
though punishable under the law, is expected to be reduced somewhat due to opportunities which will be
created along the road corridor through the diversification of the cropping pattern, export of cash crops to
urban centres, and the growth of market centers
- 19 -



6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category I A II C
O B O FI
a. Justification of EA Category: The project involves the construction of five new roads and three roads
for upgrading. Road construction in the Middle Mountains and High Mountains of Nepal is a high impact
activity, particularly during construction and the following initial few years. The cumulative impact of
steep topography, often unstable geology, high rainfall intensities and intensive land use leads to road
construction resulting in the destabilization of terrain, of production land and other related significant
impacts. Given these major natural limitations to road construction, all construction impacts cannot be
avoided. Therefore the construction of new roads is dealt as EA category "A" and the upgrading is dealt as
'4B"
b. Construction of new roads involves a total of approximately 200 km i.e., Chameliya - Darchula,
Sanfebagar - Martadi, Sanfebagar - Mangalsen, Kalikot - Jumla, Chedagad - Jajarkot.
c. Impacts: The priority bio-physical impacts include land stability (slope stability hazards, erosion,
drainage); land loss (agriculture, forest and other resources); ecological degradation (direct impact of
alignment clearing on forests, indirect impacts of road operation on forests, wildlife, protected areas and
other significant features). Secondary impacts include archaeological, cultural and religious sites, air /
water quality, noise / vibration, drinking water catchments, and refuse pollution. (Detailed impacts in EIA,
IEE and EMAPs and summarized in Annex 12)
d. Mitigation and management measures: cover - (i) road design /formation with a focus on minimizing
excavation by equalizing cut and fill where possible, minimizing slope disturbance, installing retaining
walls on the low side of the road where embankment crosses cultivation, exploring construction of dry
stone walls to save cost etc.; drainage, with a focus on cross road drainage to reduce the concentration of
water on the road surface, provisions of outfall and infall cross drainage, drive-over crossbanks and
excavated causeways, lined side drains etc. (ii) road construction with a focus on construction programs;
methodologies using local labor based road construction and maintenance; fill disposal; re-vegetation and
construction management (iii) improvement proposals for degraded land and environmental enhancements
including hill-slope reforestation, enrichment planting / protection e.g., in Sajanigajal Forest, community
forest programs e.g., in Salanidhar and Sakar ; market center planning and cash crop development
programs, stabilization / improvement of walking trails and bridges, landslide stabilization etc.
Impacts will be avoided or mitigated through the selection of the most stable alignment, sympathetic road
design incorporating environmental mitigation measures and the strict construction of the road in
accordance with the prescribed road design and environmental mitigation measures. In this regard, a
detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been carried out following Bank guidelines for EA
Category A and HMG/Ns EIA guidelines. A screening and scoping exercise was undertaken to inform
stakeholders about the proposed project, receive their comments and identify priority environmental issues
for assessment. (Scoping is required by HMGNs Environment Protection Regulations 2054 and constitutes
good practice in EIAs to help focus on priority environmental issues). The output of the EIA includes an
Environment Management Action Plan (EMAP).
e. Upgrading of roads: involves a total of approximately 250 km of roads i.e.,Surkhet - Kalikot,
Dharapani - Chhedagadi, Gorusinge - Sandhikharka.
f. Impacts: The potential impacts are related to the proposed road upgrading works which include
standard works i.e., road surface reformation, gravelling, side drain construction, as well as site specific
-20 -



works to stabilize embankments, adequately drain the road and bring the existing formnation up to the
required design standards. Other significant upgrading works are likely to include road widening at places,
slope stabilization i.e., excavation and filling, retaining wall and breast wall construction and re-vegetation,
the installation of additional cross drainage structures, and improvements to road geometry. These works
will have site-specific environmental impacts and will be mitigated on the same principles as the EIA. An
EMAP has been prepared as part of the IEE detailing the implementation of mitigation measures.
g. Initial Environment Examination / Environmental Analysis: An IEE has been prepared by HMGN
for upgrading and rehabilitation of selected national highways and feeder roads. The 3 roads proposed
(Surkhet - Kalikot, Dharapani - Chhedagad, Gorusinge - Sandhikharka, a total of approximately 250 km)
for upgrading, already exist at a very low earth standard. The proposal is to upgrade, these to fair weather
gravel standards, which would prevent further environment degradation and help reduce the need for
frequent emergency maintenance and better accessibility (roads located in the poorest regions of the
country). The IEE and EMAP prepared address these impacts in terms of mitigating adverse and
enhancing positive impacts. This is essentially a limited EA and follows HMGNs guidelines which require
an IEE for "upgrading rehabilitation and reconstruction of national highways and feeder roads". As per the
Bank, these are categorized as EA Category B and require a limited Environmental Analysis. The IEE
prepared satisfies both requirements. Similar to EIA, IEE Scoping was also undertaken and a workshop
was held in Kathmandu to provide a forum for interested groups to identify environmental issues. The
EMAP as part of the IEE will follow the same format as that in the EIA. The IEE assesses the potential
impacts that are likely to result from the construction activities of the selected upgrading roads. The
proposed road upgrading works include standard works i.e., road surface reformation, gravelling, side
drain construction, as well as site specific works to stabilize embankments, adequately drain the road and
bring the existing formation up to the required design standards.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
- Primary beneficiaries: general road users and road-side communities (e.g. farmers, local
businesses) (see C-3).
-Key stakeholders include:
(i) Project/national level: DOR/MOWT officials, other govemment agencies concerned (e.g.
MLD, Department of Land Revenue and Surveys, etc.), consultants (preparation, supervision,
external monitoring), donors (e.g. IDA, ADB, SDC, DflD, UJNDP, etc.), commercial private
sector (i.e. participants in Implementation Committee for Roads Board), contractors.
(ii) District level: DDC elected officials, DDC administrative officials (including Chief
District Officer).
(iii) Village/community level: VDC officials, PAPs, general users, NGOs, user groups (e.g.
road, irrigation, forest), women's groups (if any).
- Affected Groups: Primary groups adversely affected by the project are: PAPs (i.e. losing assets
and livelihood), community-based groups who may lose/be disrupted communal resources (e.g. forestry,
irrigation, etc.). A table indicating key stakeholders, stage of involvement, roles/types of influence, and
type of participation has been included in the RAP.
- Stakeholder Participation in Institutional/Policy Reform: The policy reform component of the
project has been prepared and will be carried on with extensive participation of stakeholders including
private sector, government representativesand major donors. A series of national-level workshops (e.g.,
- 21 -



Road Finance and Management Reform workshopMay 1998, Workshop to Review Draft Roads Board
and Fund Act, April 1999) have been carried out with participation of key private sector, Government
officials and other donors (including FNCCI, Federation of Transport Entrepreneurs, NEA, NATA,
Consumer's Association and Farmers Association, representatives from MOF, MOWT, DOR, NPC, and
MLD, and other donors including SDC and DfMD). Regional workshops were conducted. A media
campaign is to be undertaken to raise public awareness of the benefits of the Nepal Roads Board Act
establishment.
b. Other key stakeholders:
- Community Participation in New Roads, Upgrading, and Rehabilitation: The overall focus on
maintenance under the PIP and this project requires stronger sense of ownership than before. User and
community participation to the extent possible would be pursued under this project not only for information
dissemination purposes but also as one of the ways to generate ownership .of strategic network, although it
is more difficult to do so in strategic networks than in district and village roads. As part of the new road
construction and upgrading component the following activities have been and will be supported:
(i) Planning: As part of baseline socio-economic survey and the EIA processes, extensive
stakeholder consultations have been carried out with a sample of groups of potentially affected
people (including separate discussions with women' groups), representatives of local
communities, district officials, business owners, and Kathmandu-based private contractors, in
order to assess their needs and expectations for the project, their roles in the project and
potential impacts. Environmental impact assessment has been also carried out with broad
stakeholder participation.
(ii) Participation in implementation: local employment, tree plantation, savings scheme, and
others, and
(iii) Participation in M&E: communities need to monitor wage payment, and savings scheme.
The rehabilitation component has also been prepared following a social assessment and an IEE which
involves similar type of participatory approaches taken in the new roads/upgrading components.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The most important factor to ensure the project' sustainability will be the continued commitment from
HMG/N to substantially increase in real terms maintenance funding to close the gap with the networks
requirements. Furthermore, the road fund must be strengthened and made very prominent as a tool to
improve sector expenditures. Emphasis will also be made on continuing to improve maintenance
management.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating       Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Delay or inaction on policy reforms      S        Close monitoring of institutional
development program, training and
related components and maintenance
covenants.
-22-



Inadequate maintenance, new roads        M        Increased budget, making road fund
with appropriate standards are not                effective, improved road management,
adequately maintained, closures affect            and perfornance indicators. DOR and
access                                            funding agencies (SDC, IDA and DfID)
to agree and support a program to
streamline and integrate the activities o
MRCU in the various branches of
DOR.
From Components to Outputs
Delays in procurement and contract       S        Continued attention at improving
implementation.                                   procurement capabilities in DOR,
appointment of Procurement Engineer i
PCU, assistance from supervision
consultants, suitably packaged contracts
and PCU closely monitoring. Level of
authority increased. IDA may declare
misprocurement on contracts that are
not awarded within 60 days of expiry o
the original bid validity period.
Delays in site readiness and             M        Immediate actions are needed to appoin
implementation of RAP                             key counterpart staff in DOR to
implement RAP (see Social Data Sheet
for details).
Poor performance of contractors and/or   M        Training of project managers,
consultants                                       contractors and consultants, improved
monitoring and evaluation of projects,
operational audits, non-performing
contractors excluded in pre-qualificatio
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
During project preparation, locations alongside the existing roads selected for construction or upgrading
were identified where the proposed road works could have environmental effects. The areas of natural
habitat which might be affected have been extensively assessed and mitigation measures have been
incorporated in the design and management plan of the project, as well as documented extensively in the
environmental clearance application submitted to the MOPE. None other identified at present.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Standard conditions.
(b) Bids received for First Year Civil Works and proposals received for Institutional Stregthening and
Training Assistance consultants.
(c) Appointment of key staff in PCU.
(d) Draft Legislation for Nepal Roads Board Act submitted to Parliament Secretariat for the purpose of
- 23 -



obtaining approval by Parliament.
(e) Completion of actions set forth in FMS action plan with due dates that precede effectiveness date.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) The Borrower shall maintain the PCU with adequate numbers of professional staff with skills and
experience and on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including without limitation (i) the
Deputy Director General, Foreign Cooperation Branch, as Program Coordinator, (ii) two Senior Divisional
Engineers (including one designated as Procurement Engineer), (iii) an Accounts Officer, (iv) two
Accountants, (v) an Environmental Engineer, (vi) a Social Planner, and (vii) two Assistant Engineers.
(b) By December 31, 2000: Expand the Geo-Environmental Unit capabilities to carry out the social and
environmental assessment monitoring and evaluation for the project.
(c) By the end of June and December each year: Arrange a sample survey of overall quality of construction
and maintenance works by an independent monitoring engineer and report the monitoring results to IDA.
This survey will be undertaken as part of Third Party Independent Audits which would be part of the
Institutional Strengthening and Training Component.
(d) Throughout the life of the project, MOWT/DOR will ensure that funding for maintenance of roads
(comprising the strategic road network of highways and feeder roads under DOR) is systematically
increased from the current level, which is about 75% of needs, to annual allocations and expenditures for
maintenance (i.e., routine, periodic, recurrent and emergency maintenance expenditures excluding donor
financed activities and HMGN counterpart funding of development and upgrading components) as follows:
in 1999/00 not less than NRs 700 million, in 2000/01 not less than NRs 850 million, in 2001/02 not less
than NRs 950 million, in 2002/03 not less than NRs 1,050 million, and in 2004/5 not less than NRs 1,150
million.
(e) By May 31 each year, undertake an annual survey of road roughness and visual condition rating on at
least 50% of strategic highways and feeder roads (strategic network first and alternatively to cover the
entire network), and disseminate the results available in a public Road Condition Report.
(f) The Borrower shall not use any part of the proceeds of the Credit to undertake civil works on any roads
not included in the Project Implementation Plan, unless and until the Borrower has submitted to IDA
documentation satisfactory to IDA for undertaking civil works for such roads, including without limitation
a feasibility study report, an environmental management plan and a resettlement action plan.
(g) MOWT/DOR will produce trimesterly reports on implementation and performance indicators, and state
future action plans for each component of the Project, which will be reviewed by the Association.
(h) By November 30, 2001, DOR will conduct with IDA a mid-term review of project implementation.
The Borrower will prepare a comprehensive assessment of the project implementation and make ita-vailable
30 days in advance of the mid-term review.
(i) By December 31, 2001, the Borrower will make the Roads Board and the Road Fund operational under
the Nepal Roads Board Act as part of the policy reform components of the project.
(i) By October 31, 2001 and May 31, 2003 the Borrower shall conduct a socio-economic assessment of
impacts on project beneficiaries of the road construction and improvements made under the project and to
- 24 -



prepare a report of such assessment.
(k) The Borrower shall: (i) by March 1, 2000, submit to the Association an action plan, satisfactory to the
Association, for strengthening DOR' capabilities for road maintenance planning, programming and
implementation; and (ii) thereafter implement such action plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
including without limitation the implementation of the exit strategy for the Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Coordination Unit of DOR and the streamlining of the maintenance planning and programming activities in
the Planning Branch of DOR, by the earlier of (a) September 1, 2000 or (b) the award of the contracts for
maintenance works for the second year of Project implementation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
EO 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the firstyear's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation
1 3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
H 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Li 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Juan Gaviria            _/f..    Frannie A. Leautier              Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Team Leader            /s1ef<3 Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 25 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives.,       Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To develop basic          Access of rural population to Bank Economic Report on    District and community
infrastructure where      basic infrastructure services  Nepal                 accessibility improvement
economically justified and   and social facilities improves.                   programs are successful and
improve resource utilization i                                                 sustainable.
the road sector.
Transport costs decrease and Economic Survey        Complementary investments
assist to accelerate economic                        to support infrastructure
growth                                               development take place.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To achieve sustainable   Share of population provided Reports of DOR           Goverrnent adheres to the
maintenance and           with basic motorized access                          policies outlined in the
rehabilitation of the strategic increases in the project                       Priority Investment Plan and
road network, and         districts.                                           donor coordination and
construction of economically                         Project Progress Reports    support in the road sector
justifiable rural roads, subject  Numbers of person-days of                     continues
to a sound government     employment created in the
strategy for road maintenance project districts.
and the adoption of                                 Reports of the Road Board
environmentally sustainable   Overall maintenance
construction and maintenance allocation as per agreed
practices.                project covenants and road
user share increase as per
agreed plan between Roads
Board and MOWT/DOR
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Improved efficiency and   1.1 Maintenance allocations  1.1 Reports of DOR and the   Nepal Roads Board Act is
effectiveness in public sector for both Strategic and District Nepal Roads Board (periodic passed by Parliament. Roads
management of road        networks are made available  progress reports, plans and   Board established, becomes an
investments.             in time and in sufficient   implementation documents)  effective tool to enhance the
amounts, as outlined in the                          efficiency and effectiveness of
Credit agreement                                     road maintenance allocations
1.2 Allocations are actually  1.2 Third party technical and
and efficiently used for the   financial audits of road sector
planned purpose           revenues and expenditures
1.3 Nepal Roads Board and
Fund established, regulations
approved, annual programs
implemented and audited
- 26 -



2. Improved access to district 2.1 Average travel time  2.1 Implementation    Environmentally sustainable
headquarters in areas not    reductions and transport cost Completion Report  road construction and
currently served by      reductions achieved as per                          maintenance practices utilized
dry-weather roads utilizing   appraisal estimates.                           for all road sector activities.
appropriate design, technologa 2.2 Detailed technical,  2.2 Project Appraisal
and economic justification   social, environmental and
economic feasibility studies to
be carried out as part of
project preparation and
followed
3. Reduce bacldog of     3.1 Share of strategic network 3.1 Annual Road Condition   Established Road Fund
rehabilitation and implement in poor condition reduced to  Report of DOR      becomes operational and
sustainable maintenance on  20%                                              sustainable
strategic network
4. Enhanced management   4.1 Reduced unit costs for    4.1 Reports of DOR and Nepal Internal renewal and
capacity of DOR through  works by type of road and    Roads Board             enhancement of DOR's
improved contracting and    activities                                        effectiveness continues
accountability procedures, as  4.2 Improved average road   4.2 Third Party Audit (CTES)
well as standardization of    condition and quality of road reports and Annual Road
environmentally sound,    works                     Condition reports
low-cost construction and    4.3 Reduced throughput time 4.3 Reports of DOR
maintenance methods.      for procurement decisions
4.4 Environmentally sound,  4.4 Progress reports, PBME
low-cost construction and    reports and Implementation
methods become standardized Completion Report
approach within DOR
- 27 -



5. Institutional development  5.1 DOR Human resources   5.1 Special reports and  Adequate staff continuity
and training              development policy and     progress reports           within DOR.
strategy, staff development
program and training plans in                        DOR staff assume growing
place and being implemented                          responsibility for project
5.2 Annual in-country     5.2 Progress reports. For  implementation.
short-term courses (120   study tours, de-briefing on
trainees), overseas short-term  return and report preparation  MOWT supports development
courses/study tours 12    by trainees, and evaluation by of CTES capacity.
participants), and in-service  DOR.
courses (100 trainees).
5.3 Annual in-country     5.3 For overseas courses
training (20 trainees),   de-briefing on return and
overseas short courses (2    report preparation by trainees,
trainees) on Project      and evaluation by MOF,
Management Reporting      OAG, FCGO and MLJ.
(LACI) and procurement for
staff in MOF, OAG, FCGO
and MLJ.                  5.4 Special reports
5.4 Systems and procedures
for preparation of
environmental and social
assessments and action plans
in place.                 5.5 Progress reports
5.5 EMAPs and RAP being
prepared and implemented.  5.6 Special reports and
5.6 Marketing program for   progress reports
commercialization of DOR'
mechanical training
operations prepared and being
implemented.              5.7 Progress reports
5.7 Annual training of
equipment operators (30),
mechanics/electricians (70)
and supervisors (20).
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Support to sector policy    US$ 0.4 million (IDA 0.4    Project progress and  Nepal Roads Board Act passed
reform including amendment million)                  disbursement reports.     by Parliament
of the legal framework, to set
up a Roads Board and to
develop the Road Fund
- 28 -



2. Construction of       US$ 45.8 million (IDA 36.6                          Sufficient and timely
dry-weather feeder roads (197 million)                                       counterpart funding is
km) and upgrading to gravel                                                  available
standard (253 krm) including
resettlement assistance,
environmental monitoring,
and technical assistance for
design, project coordination &
construction supervision
3. Rehabilitation (147 km) of US$ 6.8 million (IDA US$ 5.7                   Procurement actions are
strategic highways       million)                                            streamlined and timely
4. Periodic maintenance (470 US$ 6.6 million (IDA US$                        Procurement actions are
kim) of strategic highways    5.5 million)                                   streamlined and timely
5. Institutional strengthening US$ 4.8 million (IDA US$                      Adequate staff continuity
and training of Department of 4.8 million)                                   within DOR
Roads and MOWT
- 29 -



Annex 2: Project Description
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.40 million
1. Policy Reform including support to setup the Nepal Roads Board, amend regulatory framework and
develop the Road Fund.
An Implementation Committee (IC) consisting of six private sector members (FNCCI, Federation of
Transport Entrepreneurs, NEA, NATA, Consumer's Association and Farmers Association) and five
Government representatives (MOF, MOWT, DOR, NPC, and MLD) was established with the approval of
Cabinet to implement the proposed reform. An action plan with agreed actions by the IC is under
implementation until the creation of the Nepal Roads Board. In a first phase, up to March 1999, the IC
and the Executive Secretary (ES) estimated existing and potential road user revenues and road maintenance
funding needs, assessed international experience with road funds carrying out study tours, and prepared a
first draft of the Nepal Roads Board Act.
A joint stakeholders workshop was held in April 1999 with the IC, donors and road fund experts to review
the draft act. The revised draft was submitted to MOWT for presentation to Cabinet in July 1999. The
Cabinet approved the act in principle in September 1999 and presentation to Parliament is planned to take
place before Dec. 31, 1999 in time to register it for consideration during the next winter session of
Parliament. The IC has also started a broad informative and consultative process with all major
stakeholders in order to achieve the necessary consensus for the implementation of the reform.
Furthermore, the IC is preparing detailed technical, financial and organizational rules and bylaws for the
implementation of the Act. Presentation of the Nepal Road Board Act to the Parliament Secretariat is a
condition of project effectiveness. During project implementation the Nepal Roads Board and Fund would
become operational.
This project component would financeconsulting services and technical assistance required by the
Implementation Committee and the Nepal Roads Board (NRB) once established ($0.15 m), study tours to
functional Road Funds elsewhere for key decision makers ($0.03 m), support to private sector capacity
building activities (contractor training) lead by NRB ($0.12 m), ancbffice equipment support for the NRB
($0.1 m).
Project Component 2 - US$45.80 million
2. Dry-weather feeder road construction (197 km) and upgrading to gravel standard (253 km) including
resettlement assistance, environmental monitoring, and technical assistance for design, project coordination
& construction supervision. This component includes als(rivil works for improvements to training and
office facilities ($2,280,000),
The civil works underthis project component will include about 197 km of new dry-weather feeder roads
and upgrading 253 km of existing dry-weather roads to gravel road standard. The new roads include:
Chameliya - Darchula, Sanfebagar - Martadi, Sanfebagar - Mangalsen, Kalikot - Jumla, Chedagad -
Jajarkot. The roads for upgrading include Surkhet - Kalikot, Dharapani-Chedagad-Dhaira, Gorusinge -
Sandhikharka.
This project component has required substantial attention to consultation during the selection of alignments
and the preparation of the environmental (see Annex 12) and social assessment of the project. This
- 30 -



component will be implemented in parallel with the implementation of the EMAP and RAP. DOR agreed
to appoint on a permanent basis two Assistant Engineers assigned to monitor and evaluate the social and
environmental activities and the teams of the Consultants.
The implementation of the new road construction wilbe carried out by local contractors trained in
labor-based road works. The project will finance a labor-based training and related technical assistance
inputs necessary for the project to carry out training of DOR staff, contractors and consultants. Existing
DOR facilities at Butwal and Nepalgunj are being considered as the basis to prepare the training program.
The training materials and methodologies developed for the Pilot Labor Based Rehabilitation Program will
be adapted for this project. The training of DOR staff and selected contractors would start on or October
1999.
The supervision of the new road construction and upgrading will be carried out by international
consultants. It is envisaged that one international services contract will be procured for supervision of this
component
Project Component 3 - US$ 6.80 million
3. Rehabilitation of 160 km of strategic highway and feeder road network.
Two priority roads of the strategic road network are being included in this component based on an update
of the feasibility, and subject to the environmental and social studies being satisfactory to IDA. The roads
are: Tansen-Syangja, Harthok-Tamgas andLumbini-Taulihawa. Given the proximity of the civil work
sites it has been agreed that one international engineering firm will be selected to supervise this project
component.
Project Component 4 - US$6.60 million
4. Periodic maintenance of strategic roads.
The Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit (MRCU) has prepared a network-based analysis of
a periodic maintenance program for the period 1999-2005 which consists of priority resealing of strategic
roads totaling some 3,063 km. The annual programs derived from this analysis includes stretches of roads
to be considered for financing by various donors, including IDA under RMDP. The analysis was
undertaken by DOR staff using the HMD-II model and data from DOR's in-house Highway Management
Information System (HMIS).
The five-year program proposed for financing under this project consists of a total of 470 km with AADT
of more than 400 vehicles and rates of return well over 40% (see economic analysis). The details of the
program were agreed during appraisal.
The supervision of this component will be carried out by local consulting firrns to be selected every year.
Great attention will be paid to the quality of supervision and planning of works.
Project Component 5 - US$4.80 million
5. Institutional strengthening and training, including: consulting services for institutional
strengthening/training of the DOR and third party operational audits of works ($2,380,000), 5-year training
and human resource development program for DOR and MOWT ($ 830,000), equipment for office
modernization ($490,000), equipment for training ($390,000) an4re-investment and scoio-economic
impact of road construction studies ($550,000).
- 31 -



Based on an assessment of on-going institutional strengthening efforts in DOR which has been conducted
by DOR and IDA, the project could finance institutional strengthening and training activities in support of:
(i) Road Sector Skills Development Unit (RSSDU) for local training, (ii) Geo-Environmental Unit to
expand its capabilities to implement the Environmental Management Action Plan (EMAP) and the
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP),(iii) the Mechanical Training Center of DOR to assist with its
commercialization, continuation of mechanical training, and expansion of training to cover private sector
personnel, (iv) the Chief Technical Examiner Section (CTES) of MOWT, to enable it to establish a
technical audit capacity and undertake technical audits of DOR projects, and (v) the Planning and Design
Branches of DOR for activities related to MRCU and TESU. Agreement has been obtained from
MOWT/DOR on the scope of the assistance, TORs and costs (see Annex I 1). During negotiations it was
agreed that support for the phase out strategy of MRCU (under the institutional strengthening and training
component) and financing a socio-economic impact study of beneficiaries road construction will included in
the project.
The CTES component will finance semi-annual Third Party Operational Audits of DOR' operations.
Agreement has been obtained during appraisal with MOWT/DOR on the TOR for the Third Party
Operational Audits, which would be undertaken by international consultants providing technical assistance
services to CTES, under the supervision of CTES.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component               US $million    US $million   US $million
1. Policy Reform Support for Roads Board                  0.21         0.17          0.38
2. Development & Upgrading of Feeder Roads               18.66         20.81        39.47
3. Rehabilitation of Strategic Roads                      2.76          3.39         6.15
4. Periodic Maintenance of Strategic Roads                2.86          2.77         5.63
5. Institutional Strengthening & Training                 1.96          2.21         4.17
Total Baseline Cost                                      26.45         29.35        55.80
Physical Contingencies                                   2.50          2.77         5.27
Price Contingencies                                      1.60          1.73         3.33
Total Project Costs             30.55        33.85         64.40
Total Financing Required             30.55         33.85        64.40
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                       0.40          0.60         1.00
Works                                                      23.70         29.10        52.80
Services                                                    6.30          3.50         9.80
Training                                                    0.40          0.40         0.80
Total Project Costs    30.80          33.60        64.40
Total Financing Required     30.80         33.60        64.40
- 33 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Present Value of Flows (Rs million)
Economi Analysis                        Financial Analysis
NRDUC  Rehabilita  Periodic    Total   NRDUC  Rehabilita  Periodic    Total
-tion.    Maint.                        -tion    Maint.
Benefits    3516       522       1204      5242     3906       593       1368      5867
Costs       1649       400       377       2426      1832      454       429       2715
Net         1867       122       827       2816     2074       139       939       3125
Benefits
ERR(%)    23.3         17.3      61        28.2
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Project benefits were derived from a net reduction in generalized transport costs on the project roads
compared to a "without the project scenario". The generalized transport costs of the project included
construction and maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs (VOC)s. In the case of the new road
development and upgrading component, in additional to construction and maintenance costs as well as
VOCs, the transport costs also included time costs of motorized and non-motorized trips, social
resettlement and environmental costs, and agricultural surplus. The cost-benefit analyses were undertaken
separately for the three different components of the project.
Main Assumptions:
New Dry-weather Road Development and Upgrading Component (NRDUC)
The methodology and key assumptions applied for the economic analysis of this component are as follows:
1.    The economic appraisal was undertaken using a Vehicle Operating Costs in Nepal (VOCN) model,
which is a simplified version of the VOC module of the Highway Design and Maintenance (HDM-III)
Model calibrated to Nepal's operating environment by the Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination
Unit (MRCU) of the DOR. The Model was initially used in the PIP study, and was updated and modified
by the consultant for the project analysis to include a module to compute benefits to normal and generated
traffic on newly constructed roads.
2.     Traffic projection in the "with project" scenario consisted of the growth of normal, diverted and
generated traffic. Growth projections were made taking into account population and income growth rates,
population-based traffic generation factors, price and income elasticity of demand. In estimating income
and population growth in project areas currently without roads, the analysis distinguished the growth rates
in the "with project" and "without project scenario". Because the pattern of road usage and maintenance in
the project areas are dominated by the monsoon season, which makes fair-weather roads generally
impassable for up to four months, assumptions were made on the number of days the project roads would
be closed under "with" and "without" the project scenario.
3.     Benefit estimation also took into account personal time values for both work-related and
no-work-related trips. As a result of the project road construction, there will be reduction of government
food subsidy to the areas currently not-connected by roads. The reduction in subsidy was not counted as a
project benefit except to the extent that they are implicit in the estimated cost of non-vehicle (including air)
- 34 -



transport.
4.     Construction costs were initially estimated using quantity estimates derived from the preliminary
engineering and surveys, and contractors' bidding rates for similar works during 1998. The unit
construction costs thus derived were cross-checked and modified with cost data of similar projects and the
PIP estimates. Prior to finalizing the appraisal, the estimated capital costs were further refined based on the
detailed surveys and engineering designs of the project roads. The based costs are in 1998 prices. The
engineering cost estimates were factored by 1.05 to account for physical contingencies and 1.1 for
supervision costs. The official district rates were adopted in estimating maintenance costs. Where
applicable, the costs of social resettlement and environmental mitigation measures were included in the base
estimates. A standard conversion factor of 0.9 and a discount rate of 12% were used in the economic
evaluation.
5.     Agricultural producers' surplus was estimated for all project roads, as they all pass predominantly
agricultural areas. As a result of reduced transport costs and improved rainy season access to markets, it is
envisaged that production of certain crops will be increased. The identified existing subsistence and
commercial crops and potential new commercial crops included vegetables, potatoes, apples, citrus fruit
and ginger. The net economic surplus values of these increased production quantity would constitute part of
the project benefits. Since it was observed that producers may not respond to cost reductions as readily as
analyst expect them to, the analysis in this respect was restricted to cases where suitable land would be
available for new cultivation. Also, it was conservatively assumed that the build-up of producer surplus
benefits would take 20 years, reaching 50% of the estimated full potential only in the 11th year. The
resulting agricultural benefits were estimated to account for about I% point of the overall EIRRs of the
project roads.
6.     Road 2, 4B and SB would benefit considerably from the shift of transport modality through the
displacement of existing air transport on these routes. The very high air transport costs currently incurred
by freight and passenger traffic to these project areas were expected to be largely saved by the construction
of new roads serving the same destinations. After the construction of the project roads, it was envisaged
that most of the air traffic (which accounted for 27% to 65% of current freight traffic) would be diverted
from using helicopters to trucking on roads, as there were very high cost differentials in these two modes of
transport. Some traffic, especially tourists, may still prefer air transport. Based on detailed surveys, it was
assumed that air transport would retain 50%, 25%, and 25% of the existing traffic on Road Link 2, 4B,
and SB, respectively.
The summary result of the economic analysis are shown in the following table:
Contru-   Estimated
ction     financial    NPV @    EIRR    EIRR    Economic
Road         Description        Length   capital cost  12% (Rs.   (%)         (%)    evaluation
No.                              (km)    (Rs million)   million)   (Base   (Worst  length (km)
case)    case)
1   Chamelia - Darchula         33.7        143          0        12.0      6.0        75
2   Sanfebagar- Martadi         37.2        220         650       36.1      24.8        56
3   Sanfebagar - Mangalsen     14.72        93           84       16.9      10.6        37
- 35 -



4B  Kalikot- Jumla             88.44       757          457      22.9      14.1       88
SB  Chedegad - Jajarkot        21.0        110         428       95.7     56.0        20
4A   Surkhet - Kalikot         132.0       607          204      19.9      8.8        132
5A  Dharapani - Chhedegad       61.5       305           9       12.7      8.7        62
7   Gorusinghe - Sandhikharka   59.2       248         36       15.8      5.3        59
Total 449.26      2482*        1867     23.3      13.9       529
* Note: 1. Costs for economic analysis include physical contingencies and supervision.
2. Road # 4A, SA & 7 are for upgrading while the rest of the road links are for new construction.
Based on the quantifiable economic benefits, the component would have an EIRR of 23.3%, and a NPV of
Rs. 1,867 million, making the proposed investment for the component economically viable.
In addition to the quantifiable economic benefits, the project will also generate a number of positive social
and economic developmental impacts to the project influence areas. Some of which are summarized below:
(1) Discriminations currently existing against women under the system ofjari or polyandry is
expected to improve substantially due to opportunities that would be created along the road corridor
through the diversification of the cropping pattern, export of cash crops to urban centers, and the growth of
market centers.
(2) Food shortage existing in the catchment area of road corridors is expected to be reduced.
(3) Duration of seasonal migration to terai and India would decrease.
(4) New north-south feeder roads are necessary condition for promoting growth in hill districts still
characterized by: (i) dependence on subsistence agriculture; (ii) trade based on barter exchange system; (iii)
economy supported by high seasonal migration to terai and India; and (iv) the majority of population not
having sufficient food for survival for more than six months in a year. To utilize the comparative economic
advantages of hill regions, investments on new roads are needed where justified. They will promote strong
complementary support existing between the hill and the plains.
(5) There are a number of potential market centers for growth in the project areas, such as Rakam,
Kalikot, Nagma, and Chedagad on Chedagad Jajarkot road. The urban demand for crop increases leading,
which will lead to growth in trade flows passing through these market centers. New economic opportunities
and employment structures in market centers will be created.
Road Rehabilitation Component
The economic analysis of the Rehabilitation Component consisted of updating existing feasibility analyses
carried out earlier for the three roads which were considered, i.e. Tansen-Syangja, Harthok-Tamghas, and
Lumbini-Taulihawa. Due to a budgetary constraint the Lumbini-Taulihawa road is excluded from the
project. Previous studies for Tansen-Syangja Road and Harthok-Tamghas Road were completed in May
1993 and April 1997, respectively. For the Lumbini-Taulihawa Road, a preliminary study was also carried
out as part of the Resealing Programme of Strategic Road Network in 1997/98. To supplement the existing
traffic and engineering data, additional traffic surveys and engineering surveys were undertaken, and cost
estimates updated to 1999 price level. The salient features and resulting NPV/EIRRs of these three roads
are as follows:
- 36 -



Links             Length (km) AADT        IRI (m/km) Surface      Base-case    Base-case
(1999)                             NPV (Rs. m)  EIRR (%)
Tansen-Syangia         85          140         14        Sealed       19.3         13.9
Harthok-Tamghas        63          110         22        Earthen      103.1         19.9
Lumbini-Taulihawa      14          150         14        Gravel        1.0         12.6
The key assumptions are:
I. For each road, 2 or 3 levels of improvement alternatives were considered for the project roads to arrive
at an optimum rehabilitation option. The HDM III model was used to evaluate the alternative pavement
rehabilitation and maintenance policies. Adjustment and calibration of the model for Nepal conditions
was made prior to applying it for the update. The analysis was carried out over a 20-year period.
2. Project benefits included savings in maintenance costs and VOCs.
3. Under the without project scenario, the Harthok Tamghas Road is closed for 15 days a year; while in
the with project case, the road is closed for only 5 days a year.
4. Traffic projection was derived by first estimating the elasticity of demand for different types of
vehicles, then related the traffic growth with the economic growth projection in the region. The
elasticity of demand was estimated using the growth of petrol and diesel consumption between 1990
and 1998, and the corresponding GDP growth rates. The resulting projected traffic growth rate is 6%
per year for all roads in the analysis.
5. Financial costs were converted to economic costs by using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.88.
The base financial costs are increased by 10% to account for design and supervision cost, and physical
contingencies.
6. The 'without-project' case for the Tansen-Syangja road refers to annual patching of potholes and single
surface dressing at 7 year intervals. For the Harthok-Tamghas Road, in the without project case, no
maintenance grading was applied and average roughness reverted to the maximum allowed in the model
of 20m/km; in the with-project scenario, grading was applied twice per year and regravelling when the
residual gravel thickness fell below 50 mm.
7. Among the various altematives studied, it was found that the most economically viable options for
Tansen-Syangja Road is limited rehabilitation to its current condition with DBST surfacing (Option II
in the study); for Harthok-Tamghas Road, the best alternative is improvement to limited feeder road
standard with gravel surface (Option III in the study). The Lumbini-Taulihawa Road has a marginal
rate of return and during supervision special efforts are needed to ensure that the actual costs are below
the engineer's estimates.
8. The total financial costs of the roads in this component, including additional 10% for contingencies,
design and supervision, would be Rs. 458.5 million (excluding price contingency). Excluding the
Lumbini-Taulihawa Road, It was estimated that the component had an EIRR of 14.6% and a NPV of
Rs.123.4 million.
Sensitivity analyses were undertaken by considering the variation of construction costs and base year
vehicle operating cost savings. In the worse-case scenario, i.e., increase of construction costs by 20% and
reduction of VOC savings by 20%, the component's NPV and EIRR would be reduced to Rs. -28 million
and 10.9%, respectively.
Road Periodic Maintenance Component
- 37 -



The methodology and key assumptions applied for the economic analysis of the periodic maintenance are as
follows:
I. The economic analysis for the Periodic Maintenance Component was based on the "Strategic Road
Network Resealing Programme for RMDP" dated November 24, 1998 prepared by DOR/MRCU. The
Program covered the annual resealing (periodic maintenance) requirement for the strategic network as a
whole, and proposed different time slices of the Program for support by different donors and from
DOR's own resources.
2. Data was drawn from the Highway Management Information System (HMIS) for each link in the
strategic network, and they include AADT, IRI and surface distress index, road length, and other
historical data, mostly from 1996/1997 surveys. The surveys will be carried out annually and the
results will be used to update the HMIS.
3. The program covered resealing of existing blacktop surfaced portion of the strategic road network
totaling 3063 km. Non-surfaced strategic network was not included in the analysis. The programn was
developed on the basis of the DOR's maintenance strategy which emphasized on planning for cyclical
resealing requirements rather than following the previous reactive intervention approach. Roads in the
hill region assume a cyclical resealing requirement of every 5 years, while roads in the terai region
every 6 years.
4. The economic evaluation of resealing each road section was undertaken using HDM-III. While the
investment would occur from 2000 to 2005, the NPVs were estimated on the basis of all resealing
being carried out in year 2000 for ranking purposes, whereas the ERRs were calculated with the year
of resealing being undertaken shown in the program.
5. Input data for HDM including road and vehicle characteristics, unit cost were applied to all road links,
with distinction of hill roads and terai roads.
6. Traffic volume on the road links included in component were mostly in the range of 500 to 1900
AADT. Under the model, NPV approaches to zero when traffic volume is about 350 AADT.
7. Financial costs are in 1997/98 prices and excluded supervision costs, but allow for 5% pre-treatment
and up to 10% drainage/structure works. These costs were updated to 1999 prices for the project
analysis. The cost adopted covered Double Bituminous Surface Treatment (DBST) with over 500
AADT and Single Bituminous Surface Treatment (SBST) for less than 500 AADT. All financial costs
were converted to economic costs using standard conversion factor of 0.88. The discount rate applied
was 12%.
8. The "without project" scenario refers to undertaking of routine maintenance plus 1% patching. The
"with project" case refers to routine maintenance plus 1% patching, as well as resealing in year 2000.
9. Unit NPV values were estimated by assuming each road section was 100 km in length, and by inputting
data of different traffic bands, roughness and pavement conditions for both hill and terai roads. The
NPVs for individual road link were adjusted to take into account of actual length of each road section.
10. The results of the evaluation served as the basis for deriving the prioritized resealing program for each
road link, adjusted for cyclical requirements, and practicalities of contract packaging.
The results of the analysis are shown below:
Year     Length of  Costs of    Length    Numbers of    Total        NPV of    ERRs for
total     total    proposed for  road links   financial    proposed    Proposed
program    program   RMDP (km) proposed for  costs for   RMDP links RMDP links
(km)       (Rs.                  RMDP        RMDP    (Rs. million)    (%)
million)                         (Rs. million)
- 38 -



1999/2000      537     _               65            3           59           2 216    1  70 to 78  J
2000/01       363         334         106           6           98           200       24to 164
2001/02       288        259          130           5           115           158     -24to70
2002/03       599         404         109           3     !    100            47.         24
2003/04       598         385          63           3           57         '205  41 2to184
Total                                .7 3         20 L        429           827          61
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
For the new road construction and upgrading component, a detailed sensitivity analvsis was undertaken to
take account of variations in different factors including: (i) 20% increase in construction costs, (ii) 100%
increase in maintenance cost, (iii) 20% reduction in road user costs, (iv) 1/3 reduction in traffic growth
rates, (v) elimination of agricultural benefits. In the worst case scenario, in which capital and maintenance
costs were to increase by 20%, road user benefits reduced by 20%, and both traffic growth rates and
agricultural benefits were reduced by 1/3, the componentfs EIRR would be 1 3.9%, and the NNPV would be
Rs. 314 million.
-39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Nepal
Road Maintenance and Development Project
Project Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies (US$ '000)                              Totals Including Contingencies
99/00       00/01      01/02       02103      03/04       Total
1. Policy Reform Support for Roads Board               82.0        83.6        85.6       87.5       89.3       427.9
2. Development & Upgrading of Feeder Roads           7,747.5    13,641.6    17,880.4    6,309.3         -    45,578.8
3. Rehabilitation of Strategic Roads                  922.7      2,630.3     2,519.9    1,048.6         -      7,121.5
4. Periodic  aintenance of Strategic Roads           1,263.4     1,287.4     1,318.7    1,348.8    1,377.6     6,595.8
5. Institutional Strengthening & Training             900.3       917.4       939.7      961.2      981.7      4,700.4
Total PROJECT COSTS (excl. PPF)                       10,916.0    18,560.3    22,744.3    9,755.3    2,448.5    64,424.4
Nepal
Road Maintenance and Developrnent Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years -Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)                                                                              Totals Including Contingencies
99/00      00/01      01102      02/03     03104
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Development & Upgrading of Feeder Roads                              6,012.2   11,055.0   14,752.2   5,423.5
Land Acquisition for Development & Upgrading of Feeder Roads          546.0      648.7       662.8         -
R&R MonTionng and Iplerrentation                                      390.0      397.2       405.8     137.7
Supervision of Developrent & Upgrading of Feeder Roads                896.8    1,648.3     2,169.5     765.3
Rehabilitation of Strategic Roads                                     750.6    2,294.8    2,192.5      938.6
Supervision of Rehabilitation of Strategic Roads                       74.6      228.0       217.4      92.8
Periodic Maintenance of Strategic Roads                              1,181.1    1,203.5     1,232.9   1,261.2   1,288.3
Supervision of Periodic Maintenance                                    82.3       83.9        85.8      87.6      89.3
Subtotal Civil Works                                                   9,933.6   17,559.3   21,719.0   8,706.7   1,377.6
B. Technical Assistance
Institufional Strengthening of DOR                                    616.1      627.7       642.8     657.1     670.8
Re-investrrent Studies                                                106.7      108.8       111.5     114.2    116.8
Technical Assistance to Roads Board                                    65.6       66.8        68.4      69.9      71.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                           788.4      803.4       822.7     841.2    858.9
C. Euiprent                                                             193.9       197.7      202.6     207.4    212.1
Total Investment Costs                                                  10,916.0   18,560.3   22,744.3   9,755.3   Z448.5
D. Recurrent Costs
Total PROJECT COSTS (excL PPF)                                          10,916.0   18,560.3   22,744.3   9,755.3   Z448.5
Summary of Financial Manazement. Accountin! and Auditine:
Background. The financial control environment in Nepal has been weakened by the recent transfer of
responsibility of the deployment and management of the accounting cadre from the FCGO to the Ministry
of General Administration. Organizational risks for the project are minimum, since DOR has a rich
experience of implementing IDA financed projects, and other donor financed projects. There is a risk that
inadequate coordination among various components, may slow down project implementation. This risk can
be minimized through the arrangement of the Project Coordinating Unit which will be functional through
-40 -



the Foreign Cooperation Branch of the DOR. The PCU needs to play a very strong role in building
coordination with all components and other agencies as necessary. In order to mitigate institutional
development risks, capacity for FM is being built up in accordance with a time-boundetion plan which
includes the recruitment and training of key FM staff.
Accounting Process.   The Project books of account will be kept on a cash basis. The PCU will take the
leadership in coordinating with other components of the Project on a regular basis to formulate the budget,
obtain the flow of accounting information, and reconcile and audit of such information. The component
managers are required to submit monthly statement of expenditures to the PCU within seven days ofthe
following month. As per the govemment requirement, the Special Accounts will be maintained at Nepal
Rastra Bank. The PCU will be responsible for consolidating the accounts, and submitting applications to
IDA for reimbursement. The PCU will be adequately strengthened to maintain a computerized Project
Financial Management Information System (FMIS). Accounting information received from various
components will be regularly updated in the computerized system to timely generate Project Management
Reports (PMRs). The PCU will maintain Main Loan Ledger, Subsidiary Loan Ledger, SOE Ledger,
Withdrawal Monitoring Register, Special Account Ledger and other ledgers required by HMG/N.
Budget and Project Implementation. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will allocate annual budgets to
the project as envisaged in the annual work plan and as agreed between HMG/N and IDA. HMG/N will
include this project under the list of core projects, and will commit to a timely release of funds. The DOR
will allocate adequate resources to the PCU which should include qualified staff, equipment and budget, to
administer overall project coordination. The PCU will be responsible for overall project administration and
management, which include programming, budgeting, contract administration, and monitoring of project
progress and submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs) to HMG/N and IDA. The PCU will be
sufficiently equipped and will have the required number of staff (technical, administrative and financial).
The actual implementation of the individual projects will be carried out through a number of site-based
project implementing units, having a separate budget authority,
Risks.  There is a risk of poor control of project finances due to the recent transfer of the responsibility
for deploying and managing the accounting cadre of staff from the FCGO to the Ministry of General
Administration (MOGA). The FCGO, however, retains overall responsibility and accountability for public
financial management including maintaining central accounts (including donor accounts) and preparing the
national accounts for timely external audit by the Auditor General. A further risk is the timely submission
of accounts by various project implementation units to the PCU and their timely compilation for timely
submission of claims to IDA, and for timely audit and submission of project accounts within six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
Financial Monitoring and Reporting. In order to ensure timely reporting, the PCU will be strengthened
and will maintain a computerized Project Financial Management Information System (FMIS). The FMIS
will facilitate timely and reliable project management information, and will be integrated with PMRs in
order to map the financial data with physical data to monitor the performance of the Project. The PCU will
develop the FMIS as required under IDAs Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
A financial management systems review of DOR was undertaken by IDA, and it was concluded that the
DOR does not have the financial management capacity to be eligible for PMR-based disbursements. An
action plan outlining activities that must be undertaken during project implementation in order to strengthen
the financial management reporting capacity of the PCU was agreed upon between HMG/N and IDA.
Until the PCU has the capacity to deliver the Project Management Reports (PMRs) as per LACI
requirements, existing disbursement procedures will be followed. IDA will review the progress made in
-41 -



establishing a strong financial management system after about a year, and will ascertain whether the
Project is then eligible for PMR-based disbursements. If qualified, appropriate arrangements will be made
to convert to PMR-based disbursements.
The project will produce from the outset the following PMR statements: Financial Statement (Report IA)
and Procurement Management Reports (Section 3)until the Project migrates to full PMR based
disbursement The PCU will gradually start withPhysical Progress Report (Section 2) The formats are
included in the BPIP. In order to match with the government planning and reporting cycle, the PMRs will
be produced on a trimester basis and submitted within 45 days from the end of the preceding trimester.
They will inform Project Management and IDA of the project's physical and financial progress, and will
feature commitment monitoring which will give advance indication of project expenditure status.
Trimesterly project management reports will be valuable for progress monitoring and subject to close
review and supervision. This will allow prompt follow-up to bring to HMG/N's attention any ongoing
problems in the projects accounting, internal controls, financial reporting etc.
Project Staffmg Arrangements.     Against this backdrop, the PCU has to be adequately staffed and
the accounting staff properly trained. The Action Plan (included in the Assessment Report to be included
in the Minutes of Negotiations) is expected to result in a sound financial management system for the
project. Under the plan, the PCU will include a core of three accounting staff to ensure that financial
management capacity will be available by project startup. The financial experts will be expected to
maintain a FMIS which will be developed by DOR by using the assistance of a local consultant. The PCU
will also ensure that a computer technician is available in-house within PCU to provide any technical
support to the FMIS. The PCU will also ensure that there are adequate accounting staff in other project
implementing units (PIUs) which will implement the project activities. The PCU will take the responsibility
to build up the implementing and financial management capacity of other PIUs.
Auditing Arrangements.     Project Financial Statements, prepared in the formats as agreed with IDA,
will be audited annually by the Auditor General (AG) of Nepal who is considered an independent auditor
for IDA's purposes. The terms of reference for the audit will require the AG to provide a separate audit
opinion in his audit report on: (i) the project accounts, to ensure that project funds have been spent in
accordance with the terns and conditions of the project legal agreements; (ii) the PMRs/SOEs submitted
for reimbursement purposes during the year, confirming these are properly supported by fornal contracts
and documentation checked and verified by the project accounting staff; (iii) the project'S Special Account
to ensure that this has been operated in accordance with IDA's procedures. The PCU will make available
to the AG the PAD, project cost tables, legal agreements and such other information and explanations as
the AG shall require from time to time to carry out his duties. The Accounts Officer of the PCU will be the
main liaison person for the AG' office to ensure the audit is carried out in a timely fashion and to formally
answer all questions raised by the AG. The PCU and other PIUs will provide the AG with the project
annual financial statements (project accounts) and all supporting documents required by the AG within 60
days of the end of the fiscal year after verification by the FCGO. The annual project accounts package
together with the audit report thereon including the three audit opinions noted above will be submitted to
IDA within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year. The unaudited accounts will be submitted to IDA within
3 months of the end of the fiscal year.
-42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Procurement
Capacity to Implement Procurement Actions
During preparation, an assessment was conducted of the readiness of the Department of Roads to
implement the proposed procurement plan for the project and the compliance with the recently introduced
Loans Administration Change Initiative (LACI). The main considerations are:
I.    The legal framework to implement procurement monitoring according to LACI is somewhat
deficient. A long-term plan to improve the same will be prepared by the Borrower which would include
initiatives for enactment and fornulation of laws/rules that either revise or supersede those existing and
inadequate rules, which are vague or inconsistent. [For this purpose UNCITRAL Model Law on
Procurement could be used as a basis.]
2.     The Ministry of Works and Transport (and DOR) should have a separate Procurement Unit fully
staffed with skilled and adequately trained manpower, including designating a Procurement Engineer and
having assistance on procurement from the supervision consultants. Procurement activities undertaken by
PIU shall be closely monitored by this unit for adherence to plans and policies.
3.    As required by rules, MOWT should take steps for preparing a Procurement Manual in
consultation with related Legal and Financial institution of HMG. This procurement manual also
applicable for DOR should, inter alia, have provisions for contract administration as well.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The procurement of works, goods and services required for the different components are to be managed as
shown below and detailed out throughout this Annex:
Civil Works:
I.    Construction of new dry-weather roads to district headquarters (197 Km.):
It is not expected that contracts under this component would attract international contractors. The
contractors will be post-qualified according to Bank Guidelines and those selected would be
required to undertake labor-based road works training provided under the projeclDue to the
estimated size of the contract packages for this type work (less than $500,000 equivalent), it is
expected that most contracts will be by NCB, but with allowance for Community Pariticipation,
direct contracting or 3 quotations for selected contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000.
2.     Upgrading of feeder roads to district headquarters from earth to gravel surface (250 Km.):
In general, it is anticipated that thework for this component will be procured through ICEn
packages of more than $500,000 equivalent.
3.    Periodic Maintenance of Strategic Road Network (470 Km.):
- 43 -



In general, it is anticipated that the work for this component will be procured through NCB and
ICB. Packages of more than $500,000 equivalent will be procured through ICB.
4.    Rehabilitation of highways and feeder roads (160 Km.):
It is anticipated thatthe rehabilitation work will be procured through ICB. Because of their
proximity and cost effective consideration, it is envisaged that one package with all roads in this
component would be most appropriate.
5.    Notwithstanding the descriptions above, the thresholds for works contracts are as follows:
*   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for each package valued NRs. 35 million (U$0.5 m
equivalent) or less, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$22.0 million equivalent.
*   Works estimated to cost less than NRs. 3.5 million (US$50,000 equivalent) per contract, upto an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$2 million equivalent (when added to the amount under direct
contracting), may be procured by community participation contracts.
*   Small contracts to cost less than NRs. 2 million (US$30,000 equivalent) per contract, upto an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$2 million equivalenrwhen added to the amount under
community participation contracts) may be procured either under lump sum or fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation.
*   Works estimated to cost less than NRs. 1.5 million (US$20,000 equivalent) per contract, upto an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$2 million equivalen(when added to the amount under
community participation contracts)may also, with the prior agreement of the Bank, be procured by
direct contracting. Certified training in labor-based road construction methods, approved by the
project, will be required from each selected contractor.
6.    In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section I of the Procurement Guidelines in the case of National Competitive Bidding the folowing was
agreed:
(i)   invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
(ii)   bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay
the required fee;
(iii)  evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed with the Association;
(iv)   bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the deadline for submission
of bids;
-44 -



(v)    foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be
given to national bidders;
(vi)   qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated in the
bidding documents, and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the lowest
evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity of registering, without let or hindrance;
(vii)   contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders;
(viii)  post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated bidders or any
other bidders;
(ix)    bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate
without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(x)    contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
(xi)   re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Association;
(xii)   all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the
bidding/contract documents;
(xiii)  a bidderf bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor' performance
security shall apply only to the specific contract under which it was furnished;
(xiv)  split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When two or more
bidders quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of
collusion, following which (A) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified
and the award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder and (B) if no
evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the
concurrence of the Association;
(xv)   extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
Association (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks and (B) for all
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period;
(xvi)  bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated
cost; and
(xvii) there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the bids.
Services: Consulting Services will be procured according to Bank Guidelines. The main consultant
-45 -



services for final design and supervision include:
1.    Final Design and Supervision of Development and Upgrading Components:
These are likely to require services of international consultants. It is envisaged that one
international consultant services package will be procured through QCBS for both of the above
activities. Participation of national consultants as part of a joint venture or as subconsultants will
be encouraged.
2.    Supervision of Periodic Maintenance of Strategic Road Network:
It is envisaged that one national consulting services contract for each year of the maintenance
program will be procured through QCBS every year.
3.    Supervision of Rehabilitation of Strategic Highways:
Since the roads considered for rehabilitation are relatively close within the western region, and
works will be carried out under one ICB contract, the supervision of this component is likely to
require one international consulting services package to be procured under QCBS.
4.    Resettlement and Environmental Monitoring and Implementation:
Consultant services of local organizations and NGOs are required to assist DOR with resettlement
and environmental monitoring and implementation (RAP and EMAP). Selection of consultants for
these services will be done under a fixed budget.
Consultant services for the Technical Assistance for the policy reform component and the institutional
strengthening and training component shall be procured as indicated below:
1.    Assistance with Policy Reform Initiatives (Roads Board):
These are likely to require services of individual consultants who will be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Section V of the Consultants Guidelines
2.    Institutional Strengthening and Training Technical Assistance:
These are likely to require two packages of international consultant services to be procured
under QCBS including: (I) a consultant services package for the technical assistance to DOR
(i.e., its units RSSDU, GEU and MTC), and (2) a consultant services package for the
technical audit TA services to MOWT (i.e., the Chief Technical Examiner, CTES), including
a semi-annual third party operational audit of the Project. Consultancy services estimated to
cost more than US$200,000 per contract must also be advertised in national newspapers and
in Development Business (UNDB). The shortlist may comprise entirely of national
consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000.
All civil works, goods and consulting services will be procured using Bank/Country Specific Standard
Bidding Documents.
Training: Training services will be procured on the basis of consultancy services and statements of
- 46 -



expenditures, after agreement with the Bank on priorities and selection criteriaTraining in
established institutions for regular courses could be claimed under SOE. Training through specific
courses organized at agreed rates by these institutions could be claimed under SOE.
Goods (including equipment and related services): Goods, equipment and related services for office
modernization and road management systems in conjunction with institutional strengthening will be
procured by a combination ofInternational Competitive Bidding (CB), National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) and National Shopping as appropriate based on the following defined thresholds. Some
software procurement is envisaged, most of which will be procured under "Direct Contracting". Each
contract estimated to cost more than US$200,000 shall be procured by ICB. Goods to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent, per contract upto an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000
equivalent, will be procured by NCB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per
contract, upto an aggregate amount not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent, will be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil works contracts each estimated to cost -the equivalent of US$200,000 and more will be subject to
prior review. Civil works procured with community participation with an individual contract value of more
than US$30,000 and the three first contracts procured through quotations obtained from at least three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation, will also be subject to prior review.
Procurement of goods with an individual contract value of more than US$50,000 will be subject to prior
review. Contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping will all be subject to prior review.
Consulting services contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more for the employment of
firms and contract to cost the equivalent US$ 10,000 or more for the employment of the individual
consultants will be subject to prior review. With respect to each contract for the employment of firms
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$100,000 will also
be subject to prior review in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph 1, 2 (other than the
second paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
For the interim period until the disbursements are based on PMR, IDA may require withdrawals from the
Credit Account to be made on the basis of SOE for the following expenditures: (a) for civil works under
contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 each, (b) for goods under contracts costing less than US$ 50,000
equivalent each, (c) for consultants'services contracts costing less than US$50,000 in case of finns, and
less than US$ 10,000 equivalent in case of individuals, and (d) for all training costs.
Special account:
A Special Account in US Dollars may be established, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. For the
interim period until the disbursement is based on PMR, an arrangement would be made to have an
authorized allocation of US$ 2,000,000 and will follow the existing disbursement procedure (the authorized
allocation will be reviewed at the time of negotiations when the Project goes to PMR based disbursements,
the authorized allocation may go up to 20% of the credit amount). The PCU will submit replenishment
applications for the Special Account on a monthly basis, or when 25% of the authorized allocation has been
- 47 -



used, whichever occurs first. The replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary
documentation which include a bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
The IDA Special Account will be managed under the joint signature of the Program Coordinator and the
Accounts Officer of the PCU. As per the government requirement, Special Accounts will be maintained at
Nepal Rastra Bank (Central Bank). The Project will follow the prescribed accounting procedures as per
the Financial Administration Regulations, 1999, and record daily transactions in the ledgers which are
self-balancing. The PCU will ensure that the Bank/Cash books are reconciled with bank statements
regularly every month. The books of accounts do not record commitment. A separate memorandum of
records is maintained to track the procurement under various contract arrangements. Expenditures are
categorized and coded under various budget items and accounts are maintained accordingly. Internal audit
is carried out by the DTCOs on a regular basis to ensure that the accounting records are accurate.
When the project qualifies for PMR based disbursements, the amount of the authorized allocation will vary
to cover two trimesters expenditures financed by,the credit. This authorized allocation of the special
account cannot exceed an amount representing 20% of the credit. The Special Account would be
replenished at least trimesterly, based on the budget presented in the PMR, to assure liquidity of funds, and
all replenishment applications would be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank in which the
account is maintained, showing all transactions-in the Special Account. Supporting documentation will be
maintained by the PCU and PIUs for at least orne fiscal year after the year in which the last disbursement
from the credit took place, and will be available for IDA: staff and independent auditors review.
- 48 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB           O     2h        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           25.90          22.00           3.30           1.90          53.10
(20.80)        (17.60)        (2.60)         (0.00)        (41.00)
2. Goods                            0.50           0.30           0.20           0.00           1.00
(0.45)         (0.27)         (0.18)        (0.00)         (0.90)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           10.40          0.00          10.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (10.40)        (0.00)         (10.40)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           O.00
__________ (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           26.40          22.30           13.90          1.90          64.50
.________ _  (21.25)     (17.87)        (13.18)        (0.00)c       (52.30)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-49 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
Category        V               _         _
A. Firms           9.80      0.00      0.10      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      9.90
(9.80)    (0.00)    (0. 10)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (9.90)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.10     0.00       0.00      0.40      0.00      0.50
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 1 0)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.40)    (0.00)    (0.50)
Total   9.80     0.00      0.20      0.00      0.00      0.40       0.00     10.40
(9.80)    (0.00)    (0.20)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.40)    (0.00)    (10.40)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS - Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 50 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                   Over $500,000               ICB                 All mandatory
$500,000 or less upto an       NCB                $200,000 or more
aggregate amount of $22.0
million
Individual contracts of less
than $50,000 up to an    Community Participation  $30,000 or more
aggregate of $2,000,000,
cumulatively with contracts
under direct contracting
Individual contracts of less
than $30,000 uptoan     Through quotations      First three contracts
aggregate of $2,000,000
Individual contracts of
$20,000 or less up to an  Direct contracting       All mandatory
aggregate of $2,000,000,
cumulatively with contracts
under communicty partic.
2. Goods                   Over $200,000               ICB                 All mandatory
Over $50,000 and less than      NCB                 All mandatory
$200,000
upto an aggregate of
$300,000
Individual contracts of  National shopping        All mandatory
$50,000 or less upto an
______________________   aggregate  of $200,000
- 51 -



3. Services             Contracts with consulting      QCBS                 All mandatory
firms of $100,000 and
above
For contracts of $50,000 or     QCBS              Limited; paragraph 1, 2
more but less than                              (excluding second
$100,000                                 paragraph of 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix of 1 of
Guidelines to apply
Section V of the Guidelines  All mandatory
Individual consultants for
contracts of $10,000 or
more
All mandatory
In-country training, and
____________ _  overseas study tours
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $51 m
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 3 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult 00 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 52 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
A. Civil Works                            27.90           100% of foreign expenditures and 55%
1. Development & Upgrading of                                   of local expenditures
Feeder Roads
2. Resettlement & Rehabilitation          1.00                     Same as above
Assistance, Implementation and
Monitoring (excludes asset acquisition)
3. Rehabilitation of Strategic Roads      4.30                     Same as above
4. Periodic Maintenance of Strategic      4.50                     Same as above
Highways
B. Goods                                   0.10              100% for foreign expenditures,
1. Office Equip. for Roads Board                        100% for local expenditures (ex-factory)
and
90% for any local expenditure for other
items procured locally
2. Office Equip. for Training             0.40                     Same as above
3. Office Modernization and Equip.        0.40                     Same as above
for DOR
C. Consulting Services & Training          3.40                         100%
1. Technical Assistance for
Institutional Strengthening, Training
and Operational Audits
2. Construction Supervision of            5.10                         100%
Development & Upgrading of Feeder
Roads
3. Construction Supervision of            0.50                        100%
Rehabilitation of Strategic Roads
4. Construction Supervision of            0.40                         100%
Periodic Maintenance
5. Pre-investment Studies                 0.50                        100%
D. Refunding of PPF                        1.50
E. Unallocated                             4.50
Total Project Costs                       54.50
Total                                     54.50
- 53 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                       Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    _
First Bank mission (identification)
Appraisal mission departure               03/15/99                    04/12/99
Negotiations                              07/20/99                    09/15/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness             12/31/99
Prepared by:
SASIN
Preparation assistance:
Hernan Levy, OED, Peer Review
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Narayan D. Sharma                  Procurement Specialist
Chris Hoban                        Highway Engineer
Guang Chen                         Transport Economist
Surendra Govinda Joshi             Transport Specialist
Dieter Schelling                   Rural Roads Advisor
Sonia Kapoor                       Environmental Engineer
Malcolm Jansen                     Environmental Specialist
Hiroko Imamura                     Lawyer
Ayse Kudat                         Social Development Advisor
Afshan H. Khawaja                  Social Development Specialist
Robert Saum                        Financial Management Specialist
Bigyan Pradhan                     Financial Management Specialist
Johana S. Thapa                    Team Assistant
Anita Shrestha                     Team Assistant
Beltrania Scarano                  Team Assistant
Juan Gaviria                       TTL
- 54 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower's Project Implementation Plan, May 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoires, various missions (February 1998, December, 1998, May 1999)
C. Other
"Nepal: Road Maintenance and Development Project: Final Report", 17 Volumes, SMEC Intl. Pty. Ltd.,
Cooma, June 1999 (which includes detailed technical, economic, environmental, social screening and
feasibility studies, and preliminary engineering designs and bid documents for construction of about 320
km and upgrading of 250 km of dry-weather roads).
* I- Main Text
* II- Economic Aspects
 III- Environmental Impact Assessment - New Road Construction
* IV- Environmental Management Action Plan - New Road Construction
*   V- Environmental Impact Assessment - Road Upgrading
*  VI- Environmental Management Action Plan Road Upgrading
* VII- Entitlement Framework
e VIII- Resettlement Action Plan
* IX-XVI Engineering Aspects and Drawings by Road
3 XVII- Standard Drawings
"Nepal - Update of Feasibility for Rehabilitation Component", July 1999, ND Lea Intl. and ITECO Nepal
(a feasibility update and updating of engineering designs for about 165 km of strategic roads during
April-July 1999 following earlier feasibility studies completed in 1996/1997).
"Strategic Road Network Resealing Program for RMDP", November 24, 1998, MRCU, DOR C
network-based prioritization exercise was conducted by DOR which gave rise to a prioritized resealing
program for DOR's paved strategic road network, covering a total of about 3,000 km of strategic
highways).
*including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Difference between expecte
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                              IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revi
Number of Closed Projects: 60
NP-PE-40612    1999 GOVMTOFNEPAL               BASIC&PRIM.ED.II                      0.00       12.50       0.00      12.04      0.00     0.00
NP-PE-45053    1999 KINGDOM OF NEPAL           RURAL INFRALIL                        0.00        5.00       0.00       4.95      0.00     0.00
NP-PE-10509    1998 GOVT OF NEPAL              MULTIMODALTRANSIT                     0:00       23.50       0.00      14.84      2.49     0.00
NP-PE-10530    1998 HMGN                       IRRIG SECTOR DEVT                     0.00       79.77       0.00      69.94      9,13     0.00
NP-PE-48026    1998 KINGDOM OF NEPAL           AGRI RES & EXTENSION                   0.00      24.30       0.00      19.92      8.68     0.00
NP-PE-10518    1997 HMG                        RURAL WS& SANITATION                   0.00      18.28       0.00      13.66     4.00      0.00
NP-PE-10454    1994 MIN OF EDU.& CULTURE       HIGHER EDUCATION                      0.00       20.00       0.00      12.55     11.26     0.00
NP-PE-10460    1994 GOV. OF NEPAL              POPULATION & HEALTH                   0.00       26.70       0.00      14.76     14.17     0.00
NP-PE-10395    1992 GOVT OF NEPAL              BASIC & PRIMARY EDUC                  0.00       30.60       0.00       0.54     -0.03     0.00
Total:      0.00     240.65        0.00     163.20    49.68      0.00
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        81.32       1,102.06       1,183.38
of which has been repaid:        0.00         64.81          64.81
Total now held by IBRD and IDA.      252.05        1,015.61       1,267.66
Amount sold:         0.00           0.00           0.00
of which repaid:       0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:      163.20          55.17         218.37
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 56 -



NEPAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1975193            Soaltee Hotel                   0.00     0.00    0.45     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.45    0.00
1994               Himal Power                    28.00     3.80    0.00    0.00    17.50    3.35      0.00    0.00
1996               Bhote Koshi                    21.00     0.00    3.00   36.00    10.25    0.00      1.44   17.58
Total Portfolio:        49.00     3.80    3.45    36.00   27.75     3.35     1.89   17.58
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
- 57 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NEPAL: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
9/9199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South      Low-
Neoal      Asia  Income         Development diamond*
1998
Ponulation. mid-vear (millions)                         22.9     1.305      3.515                 Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita tAtlas method. USS$                      210        430       520
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                         4.8       555      1.844
Averate annual orowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (%1                                           2.4        1.8       1.7                      1
Labor force (%l                                          2.4       2.3        1.9     GNP                        - - --I- Gross
Most recent estimate 11atest vear available. 1992-98)                                 capita                        renilmrnt
Povertv (% of oDoulation below national oovertv line     42          ..        .
Urban oopulation (% of total ooDulation;                 11         27        31
I ife ewnctanev at hirth tv(ersl                         57         f7        83
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                 83         77        89
Child malnutrition f% of children under 51               47         53         ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of oooulalion)                   59         81        74
Illiteracv % of Dooulation aoe 15+.                      62         49        32
Gross orimnarv enrollment 1% of schoo/-aoe Dooulation   109        100       108         -Nepal -        Low-income group
Male                                                  127        109       113
Femalie                                                sn         sn       1n3
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG.TERM TRENDS
1977     19i7       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP lUSS billions)                             1.4       3.0       4.9        4.8
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 16.0     20.2       23.3       21.7                     Trade
Exoorts ofaoods and servicesetDP              11.8      11.8      26.3       23.1
Grossdomesticsavinos/GDP                      13.5      11.5       11.9      10.5
Gross national savinos/GDP                       ..    13.6        13.9      12.9
Current account balancetGDP                    1.5      -6.6       -9.4      -8 8            .omesti
Interest oavmentslGOP                          0.1       0.5        0.5       06      DomesticInvestment
Total debVGDP                                  7.3      33.8      48.7       56.0     Savings 
Total debt servicefexnorts                     2.7       8.9       6.7        7.2
Present value of debtlGDP                        .        ..      25 4
Present value of debtlexoorts                   ..         .      87.5
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       19S8   1999-03
(averaor annual orowth:
GDP                                   386      5 0       5 0       2 3                 '      Nepal   -Low-income group
GNP oer caoita                        0.9      2.4       2.8       0.3          -
Exsorts of Goods and services         3.6     16.1     24.3      -10.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%I
f% of GDP)                                                                            i
Anriculture                                   63 9     50 7       41 4       40 5 8    0
Industrv                                      11 2      15.8      22.9       22.2       .
Manufacturino                                 4.5      6.2        9.5       9.6        s       __-
Services                                      24.9      33.4      35.7       37.3     *9
Private consumotion                           79.2     79.5       79.2       80.2    -10
General oovernment consumotion                 7.3       9 1        8.9       9.3                 _GDI          0  G0P
lInoorts of aoods and services                14.3     20.6       37.7      34.3       .
1977.87  1988-98       1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports 1%)
faveraoe annual otowth;
Aoriculture                                    3.1       2.6       4.1        1.0    50T
lndustrv                                       7 4       7 7        6 4       0 2     40 
Manufacturino                                 8.1     10.5        7.1       1.7
Services                                       2.8       6.4       4.8        5.2    20
Private nnnruimntinn                           3 5       4 f        8 .       3 7     0
General Government consumotion                 6.6       4.8        1.2       6.5            93   94   95   95   97
Gross domestic investment                      6.1       6.9       -3.3      -4.7    20
Imoorts of ooods and services                  7.1      12.1       10.8      -6.9                Exports       '*Imports
Gross national oroduct                         3.5       5.0       5.3        2.7
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouD averaoe. If data are missinG. the diamond will
be incomolete
- 58 -



NeDal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Inflation (%1
Domsestic prices                                                                          25.
(% change)                                                                               .2
Consumer prices                                   2.4      13.3        8.8       40       205
Implicit GDP deflator                            -3.6      12.7        7.3       3.3      10
Government finance                                                                         5
1% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        o.
Current revenue                                             9.4       10.8      11.1              93    94    95    96    97    9s
Current budget balance                                     -0.7        0.9        0.0               -GOP  deflator    '' CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                    -8.7       -7.3       -7.8
TRADE
1977     1987        1997      1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ miMlionsJ
Total exports (fob)                                        138         397       445      2,000
Carpets                                                    29        156       137      1 r00
Food                                                       32         47        52
Manufactures (Garments)                                    35         73       120      1,200
Total imports (cit)                                        504       1,642     1,439        00
Food                                                       62        123        98       *00
Fuel and energy                                            4          s         5
Capital goods                                             128        242       272        00
Exoort orice index (1995=100)                       .       70         108       105
Imoort orice index (1995=1001                       ..      74         105       110               rnExports       UmImports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                                    94        104        95
BALANCE of PAYUENTS
1977     1987        1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millionsl
Exports of goods and services                    163       348       1,295     1,108       0
Imports of goods and services                     198      605       1,855     1,646       2 
Resource balance                                  -35     -257        -560      -537       4
Net income                                                                            3    .
Net current transfers                              50       64          94       103      -e
Current account balance                            21     -194        -460      -421      is
Financing iterns (net)                              2      211         517       538      12
Changes in net reserves                           -22      -17         -se      -177      -1        _
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS mil/ionsl                     251         868     1.060
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USS$                 12.5      21.6       57.0      62.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987        1997      1998
fUSS millionsl                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              101     1,000      2.398     2,680
IBRD                                             0         0           0         0                      F 34 G: 32
IDA                                             22       392       1047      1,131               E 348
Total debt service                                  5       37          96        91
lBRD                                             0         0          0          0                                          113
IDA                                                                  17          9
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 21       131        171        176
Official creditors                              27       133         -43       -45
Private creditors                               -1        38         -11       -11     |     :1,135
Foreign direct investment                        0         1          23
Portfolio equity                                 0         0           0
World Bank program                                                                        A - IsRD                        E - Bilateral
Commitments                                     33        97        146          0      B - IDA    0- OtheT multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                   12        82          54        63      c - IMF                         G - Short-term
Principal repayments                             0          1          9        11     I
Net flows                                       12        81          45        52
Interest payments                                0         4           8         8
Net transfers                                   12        77          37        44
Development Economics                                                                                                           919/99
5 59 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
- 60 -



Annex No. 11
Institutional Strengthening and Training
1.0 INTRODUCTION AND CONTEXT
Global trends that affect the road sector in Nepal include:
*    Growing service demands leading to accelerated deterioration of an aging infrastructure
*    Government budget tightening and cost cutting
*    Calls for staff reductions in the public sector
*    Increasing inability of the public sector to be the sole provider and financier of road services
*    Institutional focus on users as the customers
*    Increasing concern with environmental and safety issues
*    Other trends
Facing the challenges posed by these global trends requires changes in the way road agencies
operate. Transitional stages that road agencies go through to become more efficient and the situation
in Nepal' road sector are summarized in the table.
Table 2.9. Transitional Stages of Road Agencies and the Situation in Nepal
Public         Mixed         Private           Current Situation at
Oriented     (Transitional)   Oriented            MOWT/DOR
(Traditional)                  (Modern)
Regulatory   Regulation of   Performance    Simplified   Many highly bureaucratic
Context     multitude of    impeded by    regulation of   regulations and administrative
processes and   stop-and-go   key outcomes   procedures mixed with new
units          regulations                   provisions for increased
autonomy
Structural    Large size   Smaller size    Work limited    All construction and most
Characterist  with         with increased  to            maintenance and design
ics         operations     outsourcing of  management    activities are outsourced, but
performed by   functions      of contracts    integration and supervision are
public works                                 weak. Monitoring of
forces                                       performance indicators is weak
Processes    Focus on       Expected      Customer-orie   DOR strategy combines
technical and   performance    nted vision   planning and management with
functional     not clearly    and mission    implementation of road network.
areas, not long  defined or   understood     Processes are slow with
term strategy    highly valued   and process    redundant approvals from
or integration.               integrated     MOWT and MOF
- 61 -



Systems     Little         Use of MMS,   Advanced,       Stand alone systems for some
computer use   PMS, and       integrated     activities, but weak financial
Cumbersome    other stand     systems;       and project management and
systems        alone systems   Internet;     reporting
Electronic
reporting and
communicatio
ns
Financing    Government    Resources      Funds from     Financial resources from
Mechanism   assigned funds  from          stable mix of   government have increased but
s                          experimental   government    inadequate and unstable as part
schemes and    and private   of the consolidated budget. New
mix of funds   funds         financing mechanism is being
developed (Road Board Act)
Environren  Limited        Projects are   Environmental  Internationally funded projects
tal and     attention being  subjected to    and social  are subjected to environmental
Social      paid to        environmental  considerations   and social impact assessments
Considerati  environmental  and social    are fully      and preparation of action plans,
ons         an social       impact        integrated in    but monitoring of action plans
impacts of     assessments,   project design   is weak. Locally funded projects
projects       but            and            are implemented with inadequate
implementatio  implementatio  consideration of environmental
n of action   n               and social impacts
plans is weak  I
DOR is currently in a transitional stage, from a public oriented, traditional, government
organization to a private oriented, modem, one. This transition is consistent with the global trends
for a reduction of government involvement in the road sector in tandem with increased participation
of private sector resources, as well as for decentralization of development planning and
implementation. In the last regard, HMG/N has transferred the responsibilities for planning,
construction and maintenance of local roads, which previously belonged to DOR, to local bodies,
under the Ministry of Local Development.
The institutional strengthening component of RMDP is being prepared to assist DOR continue
implementing its institutional development plan and priorities and support the Project's objectives. It
is going to build upon the institutional achievements of the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Project (RMRP), which has been undertaken with assistance from IDA, DFID and SDC. The
RMDP started in 1994 and will be completed in June 1999. (Other components of the Project
support road sector policy reform and the development of new financing mechanisms, the planning,
design and implementation of road construction and maintenance through competitively tendered
contracts with private firms, and improved monitoring of performance indicators.)
2.0 CURRENT STATUS OF INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
During the on-going RMRP, the institutional development strategy for DOR has included
establishing or strengthening several capacities, including setting up DOR units. The support and
- 62 -



inputs provided to the above units under RMRP has included technical assistance consultants,
in-country and overseas training, computers and other office equipment, vehicles, and improvement
of facilities. The institutional focal points have been the following:
Road Sector Skills Development Unit (RSSDU) (funded by DFID/SDC). It has undertaken a
wide range of in-country and overseas training activities.
*    Geo-Environment Unit (GEU) (funded by DFID). It has developed bio-engineering methods
and norms for slope stabilization and other environmental protection measures and has undertaken
training and dissemination; it has prepared guidelines for preparation of environmental impact
studies; and has developed geo-technical standards (in conjunction with bio-engineering.
Bridge Unit (funded by DFID). It has been established to improve the maintenance of bridges.
*    Traffic Engineering and Safety Unit (TESU) (funded by DFID). It has been established to
develop traffic safety policies and has undertaken a number of pilot interventions.
Traffic and Pavement Unit. It has been recording the condition of pavement and traffic levels
on strategic roads.
Planning and Programnming Unit. It prepares budget proposals.
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (funded by SDC). It has been monitoring a number of
perfonnance indicators during project implementation.
Strengthened Maintenance Division (SMD) (funded by SDC). They have been established to
improve road maintenance practices.
Cyclic Maintenance (Resealing) Unit (funded by DFID). This unit has undertaken (through
contractors) demonstration projects on periodic maintenance.
*    Field Implementation Advisors (funded by IDA). They have provided inputs for the
implementation of rehabilitation and periodic maintenance contracts during RMRP.
Equipment Management Unit (funded by DFID). The facilities and management of some
heavy equipment divisions have been strengthened.
Mechanical Training Center (MTC) (funded by IDA). It has undertaken a program of
training DOR equipment operators, mechanics and electricians.
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Coordination Unit (MRCU) (Funded by DFID and SDC
under a separate project. It has been instrumental in prioritization of road maintenance and
rehabilitation activities and preparing relevant programs.
The various DOR units assisted under RMRP have been strengthened, but additional efforts are
required in some sectors.
In February 1998, DOR conducted a workshop on institutional strengthening and training with the
participation of representatives from all its units. Based on the results of that workshop and
additional assessments of its needs, MOWTIDOR prepared a report outlining its requirements for
institutional strengthening and training over the next years. It has also approached a number of
donors to seek assistance for these undertakings.
At this time, it is anticipated that DFID will continue supporting the Bridge Unit for a period of an
additional four years, while SDC will continue funding technical assistance to SMD for three more
years. Regarding other DOR units, SDC and DFID are expected to finance the continuation of
institutional strengthening activities for RMCU, while DFID is also considering the possibility of
providing additional limited assistance to GEU (in the area of bio-engineering) and TESU.
With the growing trend of undertaking road activities through private contractors, who increasingly
use their own construction equipment or equipment hired from private sources, there is no apparent
- 63 -



need to continue providing assistance to DOR's Equipment Management Unit and Cyclic
Maintenance Unit.
3.0 RMDP INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING STRATEGY
Considering the additional requirements for institutional strengthening, as determined by DOR, the
assistance expected to be provided by other donors, and the need to focus RMDP efforts on key
areas, DOR and IDA have agreed during project appraisal that the institutional strengthening
component of RMDP should focus on the following initiatives, over the five-year project duration:
*    Support for the development of a comprehensive human resources development program;
Expansion of the environmental and social capabilities of DOR, to assist with project design
and management, and enhance the quality of outputs (own and externally funded);
*    Support of DOR7s efforts to expand its mechanical training activities to cover private sector
personnel; and
*    Establishment of a third party operational audit capacity.
The above objectives would be achieved through institutional strengthening and training efforts,
including: (1) support of RSSDU training activities; (2) establishment of a social section within
GEU and strengthening of its existing environmental section; (3) assisting MTC to continue its
training activities with an emphasis on commercialization and training of private sector operators
and mechanics; and (4) assisting in establishing a technical audit capacity at the Chief Technical
Examiner Section (CTES) of MOWT, which would also oversee the implementation of Third Party
Operational Audits of DOR's RMDP operations. Additional undertakings would include training
local contractors in labor intensive road construction and preparation of pre-investment studies.
Project inputs to assist with implementation of this strategy include:
*    nprovision of technical assistance by teams of expatriate and local specialists,
*    in-country and overseas training,
*    procurement of training aids, equipment for office modernization and vehicles for field visits,
and
*    improvements to DORs training facilities at Kurintar and to MOWT/DOR main office
facilities.
Support of RSSDU
An immediate need of RSSDU is the preparation of a human resources development policy and
strategy (HRDPS) for DOR, the development of a comprehensive staff development program
(SDP), and the preparation of training plans. In the medium-to-long term this program needs to be
implemented in an effective manner. RMDP would provide technical assistance inputs for
preparation of HRDPS, SDP and training programs and for their implementation, consisting of an
expatriate Training Specialist and a local Training Specialist.
RMDP would help fund in-country short courses and seminars and limited overseas study tours and
seminars during the project period, focusing on road planning, management and maintenance,
project management and monitoring, environmental and social assessment, management and
monitoring and other DOR activities. It would also finance refurbishment of training facilities at
Kurintar, and procurement of training aids, office equipment and a bus.
-64 -



The expected outcomes of this initiative include the following:
Human resources development policy and strategy, staff development program and training
plans in place.
Staff receives in-country and overseas training, in accordance with training plans.
-    Each year approximately 120 persons participate in in-country short-term courses, 12-13 in
overseas short-term courses/study tours, and 100 in in-service courses.
*    Training participants are applying their training at their work.
Support of GEU
RMDP would help establish a social section within GEU that would become responsible for
preparation and monitoring of social impact assessments and resettlement and rehabilitation action
plans (RAP) for DOR projects, and for dissemination of social assessment and monitoring of road
projects with DOR staff, contractors, consultants, community based organizations and other key
stakeholders.
The environmental section would be strengthened so as to enable it to prepare and monitor
environmental assessments and environmental management action plans (EMAP) for road projects,
and to carry out dissemination activities of the environmental dimensions of road projects during
assessment and monitoring with DOR staff, contractors, consultants, community based
organizations and other key stakeholders.
Technical assistance inputs for the social and environmental sections of GEU would consist of a
local Environmental Specialist and an expatriate and a local Social Specialist. The Project would
also finance the procurement of office equipment and a vehicle for field surveys and monitoring. The
expected outcomes of these inputs include the following:
-    Systems and procedures for preparation of environmental and social assessments and action
plans in place.
-    Systems for auditing implementation of EMAPs and RAPs in place.
*    GEU prepares or oversees preparation of environmental and social assessments and action
plans for DOR projects and carries out continuous broad dissemination with DOR staff,
contractors, consultants and CBOs.
-    EMAPs and RAPs are being implemented.
Support of MTC
MTCI objective is to start providing training for other HMG/N departments as well as to private
sector mechanical personnel, and initiate a program to become self-sustaining. RMDP would assist
MTC prepare and implement a marketing study and plan for commercialization of MTC operations,
and to continue mechanical training activities.
This would require the input of an expatriate Mechanical Training Management Specialist and of a
local Mechanical Training Specialist. Additional short-term specialists could also be provided as
needed. The Project would also finance procurement of some training aids and office equipment.
The anticipated outcomes of these inputs include the following:
- 65 -



Marketing program for commercialization of operations prepared.
*    Commercialization of MTC undertaken.
*    Training given to mechanical personnel of DOR, other HMG/N organizations, and private
contractors, in accordance with program.
*    Some 30 operators, 70 mechanics/electricians and 20 supervisors receive training each year.
*    Growing participation of other agency and private sector mechanical personnel in training,
ranging from about 10% in first year to 50% in last year.
Development of Technical Audit Capacity at CTES and
Third Party Operational Audits
RMDP would help establish a technical audit capacity at the Chief Technical Examiner Section of
MOWT. This would require the input of an expatriate Technical Audit/Quality Assurance Specialist
to develop and assist with the implementation of policies, systems and procedures for technical audit
of DOR road project, and of a local Technical Audit Specialist to assist with implementation of
technical audits. In addition to the overall technical audit of DOR projects, RMDP would provide
periodic (twice a year) third party operational audits of RMDP activities. The Project will also fund
improvement to office facilities, and procurement of office equipment and a vehicle. Expected
outcomes of this assistance include the following:
Technical audit policies, systems and procedures in place.
Technical audits have been implemented on a systematic basis for DOR projects.
Procedures for third party operational audits in place and audits completed for RMDP.
Audit recommendations have been implemented.
Other Institutional Strengthening Activities
The Project could also provide limited short-term inputs for institutional strengthening of other units
of MOWT/DOR (including support for the exit strategy of MRCU), improvement of DOR
facilities, procurement of office equipment, a vehicle for MEU for field monitoring and a vehicle for
land acquisition/management surveys. Examples of expected outcomes include the following:
Studies completed (e.g., pre-investment studies, socio-economic impact on beneficiaries)
Programs and action plans in place and being implemented (GEU, MTC, RSSDU, MRCU)
Staff from DOR, MOWT and Nepal Roads Board trained as per action plan (600 trainees in
in-country short term courses, 60 trainees in overseas short-term courses, and 500 trainees in
in-service training)
Staff from FCGO, OAG, MLJ trained on IDA procurement and project financial
management as per action plan (20 in-country short term courses and 2 overseas short-term courses)
-    Social assessment, land acquisition and compensation process has been improved and
streamlined.
4.0 INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING IMPLEMENTATION
An institutional strengthening implementation matrix, including actions required, inputs, expected
key outputs and performance indicators is shown in Appendix 1.
It is anticipated that there would be two contract packages for technical assistance (TA) services:
- 66 -



(I) a contract for the TA services to DOR (RSSDU, GEU and MTC); and (2) a contract for the
technical audit TA services to MOWT (CTES), including the semi-annual third party operational
audits of the Project. Terms of reference for these contracts are provided in the BPIP.
The contract for TA services to DOR will be supervised by DOR. In particular, the TA services to
RSSDU and GEU will be supervised by DORt Planning Branch, while the services to MTC will be
supervised by the Mechanical Branch. The TA services to CTES will be supervised by MOWT.
The progress of the TA services and will be reviewed semi-annually to safeguard that the Project's
institutional strengthening objectives are being achieved.
The cost of institutional strengthening and training under RMDP is estimated to be about
US$3,265,000 (base prices), including US$2,380,000 for technical assistance consultants,
US$830,000 for training, and US$375,000 for equipment procurement and improvement of training
and office facilities.
-67 -



APPENDIX 1
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND TRAINING
IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX
(Sheet 1 of 3)
Institutional   Institutional    Actions      Responsibilit    Technical            Key Outputs and
Component   Strengthenin        Required          y for        Assistance       Performance Indicators
g                         Implementin        and
Activity                          g          Equipment
Inputs
Road Sector    1) Strengthen    1) Prepare     DOR            Training        1) Human resources
Skills         RSSDU           human           Planning       Specialist      development policy and
Development   2) Continue      resources       Branch         (Expat.)        strategy, staff development
Unit           training of     development                    Training        program and training plans in
(RSSDU) -      DOR staff       policy and                     Specialist      place.
DOR                            strategy, staff                (Local)         2) Staff received in-country and
development                    In-Country      overseas training, in accordance
program and                    Short Courses   with training plans.
training plans.                Overseas        3) Each year approximately 120
2) Implement                   Short           persons from DOR/MOWT
training                       Courses/Stud    participate in in-country
programs and                   y Tours        short-term courses, 12-13 in
plans.                         Improvement   overseas short-term
of Kutintar    courses/study tours, and 100 in
Facilities,    in-service courses.
Bus, Office    4) Training participants are
Equipment      applying their training at their
work.
Geo-Environ    1) Strengthen    1) Develop     DOR            Environmenta   I) Systems and procedures for
mental Unit    GEU's           procedures for  Planning       I Spec.         preparation of environmental
(GEU) -        capabilities    environmental  Branch          (Local)         and social assessments and
DOR            for             and social                     Social          action plans in place.
environmental  assessments,                    Specialist     2) Systems for auditing
assessment,    preparation of                  (Expat.)       implementation of EMAPs and
preparation of   EMAP, SAP                     Social         RAPs in place.
EMAP, and      and RAP, and                   Specialist      3) GEU prepared or oversaw
monitoring,    monitoring.                     (Local)        preparation of environmental
2) Develop     2) Undertake                    Office         and social assessments and
GEU'           preparation of                  Equipment      action plans for DOR projects
capabilities   environmental                                  and carries out continuous broad
for social     and social                                     dissemination with DOR staff,
assessment,    assessments,                                   contractors, consultants and
preparation of   EMAP, SAP                                    CBOs.
RAP, and       and RAP.                                       4) EMAPs and RAPs have been
monitoring.    3) Monitor                                     implemented.
EMAP, SAP
and RAP.
- 68 -



(Sheet 2 of 3)
Institutional   Institutional    Actions     Responsibilit    Technical           Key Outputs and
Component   Strengthenin       Required          y for        Assistance       Performance Indicators
g                        Implementin         and
Activity                          g          Equipment
Inputs
Mechanical     1)              1) Prepare     DOR            Mechanical      I) Marketing program for
Training       Consolidate    marketing       Mechanical     Training        commercialization of operations
Center         MTC training   study for       Branch         Management    has been prepared.
(MTC) -        capabilities.    commercializ                 Spec. (Expat.)  2) Commercialization of MTC
DOR            2) Broaden     ation of                                       has been undertaken.
MTCs client   training                        Mechanical      3) Training given to mechanical
base to make    operations.                   Training        personnel of DOR, other
training       2)                             Spec. (Local)    HMG/N organizations, and
operations     Commercializ                   Short-term      private contractors, in
self-financing.  e operations.                specialists     accordance with program.
3) Continue                   Training        4) Some 30 operators, 70
training                      Aids/           mechanics/electricians and 20
Equipment,    supervisors receive training each
Office         year.
Equipment      5) Growing participation of
other agency and private sector
mechanical personnel in training
, ranging from 10% in first year
to 50% in last year.
Chief          1) Strengthen   I) Develop     MOWT-          Technical       1) Technical audit policies,
Technical      existing       technical       Chief          Audit Spec.     systems and procedures in place.
Examiner       CTES to        audit policies,   Technical    (Expat.) -      2) Technical audits have been
Section        establish      systems and     Examiner       Technical       implemented on a systematic
(CTES) -       policy and     procedures.     Section        Audit Spec.     basis for DOR projects.
MOWT           undertake      2) Implement                   (Local)         3) Procedures for third party
technical      technical                      Operational     operational audits in place and
audits of road   audits on a                  Audit           audits completed for RMDP.
projects.      systematic                     Consultants     4) Audit recommendations have
2) Perform     basis.                         Vehicles,       been implemented.
third party    3) Establish                   Office Equip.
operational    procedures for                 Office
audits of      third party                    Improvements
RMDP.          operational
audits and
conduct same.
- 69 -



(Sheet 3 of 3)
Institutional   Institutional   Actions      Responsibili    Technical      Key Outputs and Performance
Component    Strengtheni       Required         ty for      Assistance               Indicators
ng                       Implementin        and
Activity                         g         Equipment
Inputs
Various        Strengthen     Various        MOWT/DOR   Various            Examples of key outputs and
MOWTIDOR                                     specialists,   performance indicators include:
institutional                                office         I) Studies completed;
aspects                                      equipment      2) Programs and action plans in
place and being implemented;
3) Persons trained as per action
plan; etc.
Training on
procurement                                                  1) 20 trainees in in-country short
and project                                                 courses and 2 overseas short
financial                                                   courses
management
to FCGO,
MU and
OAG
-70 -



- 71 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Environmental Assessment
- 72 -



In accordance to the Bank's OOP. 4.01 this Annex includes:
Procedures used to prepare the report
Environmental Baseline Conditions
Alternatives Considered
*     Predicted Impacts
Summary of the EMP
*     Public Consultations
*     Negotiated environment related loan conditionalities and covenants (included in Section G of PAD)
Environmental Supervision arrangements (specified in EMAP)
1.0    EIA PROCESS AND METHODOLOGY
The EIA was prepared in accordance with HMGN's legal requirements knvironment Protection
Regulations 2054) and IDA's Guidelines OP/GP/BP 401 on Environmental Assessment, including a
walkover inspection of each proposed alignment and consultation with local people and officials. The
steps undertaken during the process are EIA scoping, alignment inspection, district interviews, additional
fieldwork (household and business surveys) and assessment of issues as follows:
EIA scoping, was undertaker; following the screening exercise, to inform stakeholders about the
proposed project, receive their comments on relevant environmental issues and identify priority
environmental issues for assessment. A review of relevant guidelines and technical references was
undertaken, followed by publication of a Public Notice, as per thinvironmental Protection Regulations
2054, Rule 4(1) and 4(2), in the national Nepali newspaper Gorkhapatra on 8/6/2055 (24/9/98). The
Notice sought "opinions and suggestions from all concerned parties to identify potential primary
environmental impacts relating to the proposed road works as part of the scoping exercise to be undertaken
for EIA and IEE studies". The scoping included a literature review, public notice, inspections of the
proposed alignments and discussions with local people, and with Government officials at destination
district headquarters, a Scoping workshop in Kathmandu (in October 1998) and formal preparation of a
Scoping Report. As a result of this the TOR was developed for the EIA.
Alignment Inspection and selection, involved walkover inspections by the Environment and
Social teams, a Road engineer, Geologist, Surveyor and associated professionals. The general alignment
suggested by DOR was then refined by general discussions within the team in accordance with alignment
selection criteria. Collection of Alignment Information was done by the physical and social site
assessments of the proposed alignment and ROW during the walk over inspectionsA lignment data sheets
were used to collect data on land use forest type, landform, geology and other significant features along the
full length of each alignment. Forest Use and Protected Species Interview Sheetswere used to interview
local people about forest and other natural resource use, and the conservation significance of local ecology.
Social assessment ROW fieldwork consisted of recording of property and assets located in two
bands: 15m and 30m (i.e., 7.5 m and 15 m from the centerline of the traverse line); a questionnaire survey
of a sample of 197 potentially affected households; a questionnaire survey of a sample of 90 potentially
affected business owners and 19 group discussions with residents of settlements located in the right of way
(ROW).
District interviews were conducted with key Government departments at all destination district
headquarters, including the administration office, development office, agricultural and forestry office and
with VDC and community representatives. Inspection of existing roads in the locality of the proposed
roads were inspected to get an indication of the likely impacts that will result along the proposed alignments
considering the similarities of geology, land form, land use etc.
- 73 -



*      Assessment of potential impacts was carried out following field work and data collection. The
level of assessment of each issue was based on the relative importance assigned to that issue in the scoping
of the EIA.
2.0    ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
2.1    Environmental Screeningof the candidate roads was undertaken to: (i) determine the magnitude
of potential impacts and ensure that environmental considerations were given adequate weight in the
selection of roads to be constructed; (ii) identify candidate roads that should not be constructed due to
major potential environmental impacts; (iii) recommend, in order of priority, roads to be constructed based
on overall environmental impact, both adverse and beneficial; (iv) classify the level of environmental
assessment required for each proposed road. The macro-level primary environmental issues used to screen
the candidate roads in terms of potential major impacts that may result from the proposed roads include (i)
land use change (the percentage of each road alignment length crossing cultivation was calculated off Land
Resource Mapping Project (LRMP) 1:50,000 Land Utilisation maps); (ii)ecological degradation (three
types of forests/areas with conservation significance along the proposed alignments were identified to
indicate the comparative value of forests that are likely to be degraded: forests with a crown density of
greater than 70%; "protected forests"; "Protected Areas"); (iiijandform stability (a combination of
landslide hazard (from the Landslide Hazard Map of Nepal, HMG), slope failure risk, and river bank
erosion and flood risk (from LRMP Land Utilisation maps) were assessed by length of road to provide an
overall land stability assessment); (iv)damage of other significantfeatures (only significant geographic
features were seen as an important issue in relation to the candidate roads as archaeological or cultural sites
could be avoided by the alignments and no major town drinking water catchments were crossed. Subjective
negative scores were assigned to the Beni-Jomsom road due to its location alongside the Kali Gandaki
River, in the landscape of Annapurna I and Dhaulagiri, and proximity to other significant features, and to
the Chedagad-Jajarkot road due to its location alongside the Bheri River.
2.2    An analysis of alternatives was carried out with a criteria that builds on the screening exercise,
and looks at the trade-off between the social / environmental conditions and engineering constraints;
justification of the proposed alignment based on past DOR studies (PIP project etc.) and existing trail
access. Road alignment refinement was undertaken with a joint walkover survey by a Road Design
Engineer, Geologist, Surveyor, Environmental Specialist and Sociologist and a DOR representative. The
agreed alignment was based on a bio-physical and social selection criteria:
(i) Geology (avoidance of landslide hazard areas to achieve long term road stability);
(ii) Topography (not flood prone, lower slope land to minimize cut and fill and construction costs,
avoidance or minimal disturbance of stable embankments);
(iii) Land use (shortest possible alignment length to minimize land take; avoidance of religious sites, large
settlements and high value production land, in the following order of sensitivity i.e., archaeological,
cultural and religious sites set at least 60 m back wherever possible; villages and individual houses set
back at least l 5m from the center line wherever possible; irrigated cultivation; high conservation value
forest - also Community Forests; rainfed cultivation; degraded forest; grassland; degraded bare land and
existing tracks / trails).
3.0    BASELINE ENVIRONMENT CONDITIONS
3.1    Bio-physical:
3.1.1  Topography: All proposed roads are located in the Middle Mountains (33%) and High Mountains
(67%) of Nepal. The mid or lower hill slopes, Darchula, Martadi, Jumla and Jajarkot roads follow major
- 74 -



river valleys for the majority of their length. These river valleys are the Mahakali, Budhi Ganga, Kamali
and Tila, and Bheri Rivers respectively. These alignments predominantly run parallel to the major rivers,
crossing either the mid or lower hill slopes, except where major features such as landslides and deep
tributary valleys have to be negotiated. At these locations the alignments either descend to the valley floor
or ascend around the feature. However, the Mangalsen alignment does not follow a river valley. It runs
cross country, descending steeply to the Kailash Khola then ascending to Mangalsen township. All
alignments are almost exclusively located on hill slopes, above the flood level of major rivers and streams
(except where crossings are required), and above landslides on the lower slopes near rivers. The
alignments generally cross 10- 40 slopes, although steeper sections are traversed along all alignments. The
steepest section of alignment is located on the Jumla road, crossing slopes of up to 70. The proposed
alignments are all located between elevations of 600 m (the Kailash Khola on the Mangalsen road) and 2,
344m (Jumla).
3.1.2 Rainfall patterns across all proposed roads are generally similar. Average annual rainfalls range
from 1200 - 2000 mm with nearly 80% of the total annual rainfall during the four months of the monsoon,
from June to September. All areas experience very high rainfall intensities, ranging from estimates of 125
- 350 mm for a 24 hour period (ICIMOD, 1997).
3.1.3 Geology: The proposed alignments lie in the lesser Himalayan Tectonic Zone, which is comprised
of allocthonous (foreign transported rock mass) Katmandu Group and autocthonous (in situ) to
para-allocthonous (partially transported) Midland Group rock successions (DMG, 1987).
3.1A   Land use: The alignments cross two main cultivation types, rainfed (21.0%), irrigated (12.2%)
cultivation. Approximately 20.9% of the alignments pass through Government, Community or private
forests. The majority of these forests are immature, with crown coverage of less than 50%. The dominant
forest species in the lower valley areas below 1200 m elevation, are Sal, Saj, tropical mixed hardwood and
Chir pine species, whilst the dominant species above 1200 m are Chir pine and mixed broad leafed species.
The alignments also cross degraded shrub lands (10.3%), grasslands located on steep to very steep slopes
(26.8%), and rock outcrops, river beds, screes, accumulated debris and cliff faces (5.0%/o). Under the
Forest Act, 1993, Sal and Cutch Tree are listed as "Ban on export and felling transportation" and Silver Fir
as "Ban on export". Of the 13 plant species protected by HMG, only Sal (Shorea robusta) has been
confirmed as occurring in the ROW. Despite the fact that Sal is a protected species and will have to be
cleared at some sites, it should be noted that Sal is widely distributed throughout Nepal below 1200 m and
that it is a highly utilized species despite its status. Apart from Sal, no protected plant species were
identified as occurring in the ROWs. Getting forest clearance permit would require further investigation by
the DOR.
3.1.5  Protected areas: No proposed alignments go through or immediately adjacent to any protected
areas. The Martadi alignment commences approximately 10 km east and 1600 m below t.'ie eastern side of
the Khaptad National Park, whilst the Jumla alignment will provide the nearest road access to two
protected areas, Rara National Park (21km) and She-Phoksundo National Park (34 km).
3.1.6 Archaeological / Cultural I Religious A total of 88 archaeological, religious and cultural sites of
local, regional or national significance exist within the districts crossed by the roads. These sites, identified
from the Main Cultural and Archaeological Map of Nepal (Dept. of Archaeology) and Heritage Sites of
Nepal (IUCN, 1997), include temples, shrines, palaces, caves, hill tops, hot water springs, pools, lakes and
taps. Most older identified shrines, temples and palaces are in a state of despair and in need of immediate
structural renovation.
-75 -



3.2    Socio-Economic Environment
Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world, with up to 45% of its population defined as"
poor"'(HMG/N, 1996b; UNDP 1998: 126). In 1994, the country had a per capita gross domestic product
(GDP) of only US$ 200. The RMD Project roads are situated in the Far-Western Development Region
(FWDR) and Mid-Western Development Region (MWDR), two of the poorest regions in the country.
Four of the six districts crossed by the roads are amongst the 10 worst performing districts of Nepal.
Achham district is rated as the worst performing district, followed by Kalikot, Jumla, Bajura and Jajarkot.
Darchula District is also fairly poorly rated (26 th). The six road districts comprise 232 Village
Development Committees (VDCs), of which 33 are crossed by the RMDP roads. The 33 VDCs had a
combined population of 114, 944 in 1991, rising to an estimated 124,314 in 1998. These VDCs
accommodated an estimated 24, 173 households in 1998, the majority (33.6%) of whom are resident in
VDCs crossed by the Jumla road. Key socio-economic features of the six districts are:
-an economy dominated by subsistence agriculture, with only a small percentage of the population
formally employed outside the agriculture sector;
-small average land holding sizes (an average of approximately 1.4 ha was recorded in the
socio-economic survey) and food deficits;
-a reportedly high incidence of seasonal labor migration (mostly by men) tot he Terai, other areas
of Nepal and India;
-Inadequate access to social services and facilities, high illiteracy rates and low life expectancy,
despite improvements in the provision of basic social services since the 1970M.
4.0    POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The priority bio-physical issues identified during Scoping and focused in the EIA, include land
stability (slope stability hazards, erosion, drainage); land loss (agriculture, forest and other resources);
ecological degradation (direct impact of alignment clearing on forests, indirect impacts of road operation on
forests, wildlife, protected areas and other significant features). Secondary issues include archaeological,
cultural and religious sites, air quality, water quality, noise, geographically significant features and refuse
pollution. The priority socio-economic issues addressed by the EIA (covered by the social assessment
include population displacement, loss of assets (structures and productive measures) and social
development potential. Theidentiflcation ofpotential direct, indirect impacts (induced impacts) and their
extent on both the right of way and the area of influence) on the project roads has also been carried out and
summarized in Table 2.1.
Table -2.1-: Primary Environmental Issues and Associated Impacts
Primary                   Impact                  Extent       Direct /    Initiation
Environmental                                                    Indirect   (C = const.
Issue                                                         Impact        O =
operat.)
Land Use        -Loss of agricultural land           ROW            D            C
-Loss of forest resource             ROW            D            C
-Loss or degradation of forest cover  ROI           I            0
Land Stability   -Landslides and erosion             ROW            D          C & O
-Sedimentation                       ROW            D          C & O
- 76 -



Ecology          Loss of forest habitat              ROW            D            C
-Loss or degradation of forest habitat  ROI         I            0
*Degradation of wildlife and fisheries  ROI         I          C & 0
Social          *Loss of privately-owned buildings   ROW             D            C
-Loss of comnmunity                  ROW            D            C
services/facilities                   ROI           I            0
-Impacts on cultural traditions       ROI           I            0
'Social and economic development
4.1    Land Use: Most existing land use within the proposed ROWs will be converted to road formation,
resulting in a permanent loss of production resources. The actual ROW width will vary along the
alignments according to the slope and road design. For the purposes of quantifying the approximate areas
of each land use type that will be converted to road formation, the ROW has been assumed to have an
average width of 15 m. This represents a total ROW land area of 294.6 ha along the 196.4 km of proposed
alignments. The ROW land use types and areas that will be converted to road formation are summarized in
Table 2.2. In terms of production value, irrigated and rainfed cultivation and forests are viewed as the
most valuable land use types.
Table -2.2-: Land Use Types Within the Right-of-Way
Land Use Type (ha)
Project    Cultivation    Grass-                 Aban-  Settle-  River.  Rock,  Total
Site    Irrigat Rainfd  land   Forest Shrub   doned  ments  Featur  Cliffs,  (h a)
. __.___   s                    Land              .    Scree
Darchula    4.05    11.24   22.14   3.90    8.92                   0.17    2.61    53.03
Martadi     4.68    24.44   14.45   7.79                           1 .09    2.90   55.35
Mangalsen   2.69    11.58   2.29    5.42                           0.10     -     22.08
Jumla       16.10   12.52   40.08   24.12   20.78    1.30    9.96    1.27    6.53   132.66
Jajarkot    8.40    1.95     -    20.40   0.75           -          -       -    31.50
Total      35.92   61.73   78.96   61.63   30.45    1.30    9.96    2.63    12.04  294.62
4.2    Cultivation Land: A total of 97.65 ha of cultivation land will be converted to road formation,
consisting of 35.92 ha of irrigated cultivation and 61.73 ha of rainfed cultivation. In terms of the areas of
cultivation in the main project districts, this translates to a minor loss of between 0.03-0.14% of each
district's total cultivation land.
4.3    Annual Crop Production and Loss of Cultivation Land To assess the relative annual crop
production loss from ROW land, all irrigated cultivation land was assumed to be under a single wheat and
a single paddy crop each year, whilst all rainfed cultivation land was assumed to be under a single wheat
and a single maize crop. Average yields per hectare calculated from five project districts were applied to
calculate an equivalent loss in annual crop production. This equivalent crop production loss translates to
140.3 T of wheat, 89.8 T of rice and 98.8 T of maize per annum. In comparison to annual national
production, ROW production amounts to less than 0.01% of Nepal's production of any of these grains.
Countering this loss of cultivation land will be the possible re-cultivation of abandoned land, brought back
- 77 -



into production due to an increase in crop prices generated by road access. The loss of cultivation land and
associated production will only be a significant impact at the local level, for people owning land along the
road alignment. The actual severity of this impact will be determined by the success of Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) mitigation measures.
4.4    Forests: Approximately 62 ha of forest will be cleared within the ROWs during road construction.
This forest consists of coniferous (29.4%), hardwood (50.8%) and mixedwood (19.8%) forest types (Table
2.3). Only crown cover densities in the 10-70% range were recorded within the ROWs, with 76% forests
having 10-40% crown density and the remaining 24% of forests having 40-70% crown density.
Table 2.3: Forest Types and Densities Within the Right-of-Way
Forest Types by Crown Cover De sity (ha)            Total
Road         Coniferous           Hardwood              Mixedwood         Forest
10-40%    40-70%     1040%     40-70%     10-40%     40-70%      (ha)
Darchula      -                   2.30        -          -        1.65       3.90
Martadi      0.14                 4.60       2.29      0.47       0.29       7.79
Mangalsen    5.42                             -          -         -         5.42
Jumla        12.56       -        4.04       2.78      3.63       1.11      24.12
Jaiarkot      -                   9.40       5.90      4.28       0.82      20.40
Total       18.12                 20.34     10.97      8.38       3.87      61.63
__________  (29.4%)  ________ (33.0%)   (17.8%)   (13.6%)    (6.2%)
The clearance of the road formation area will result in the permanent loss of approximately 125 m3
of fuelwood and 3,524 m3 of wood. This loss of 62 ha of forest resources is a relatively minor impact
when compared with the total ROI forest area of 1,326 km2.
4.5    Land Stability: Geologically, the Himalayas are the youngest mountains in the world. They are
tectonically active and morphologically dynamic, constantly changing shape due to geological, tectonic and
morphologic dynamism. The steep slopes and "V" shaped valleys are the manifestations of these ongoing
processes. The proposed roads cross features of instabilities. The magnitude of these instabilities vary
considerably from section to section along each alignment, as a function of geology, tectonic activities and
geomorphic processes (rivers, snow falls, rainfall, earthquakes, etc.). Land stability along the proposed
road alignments was assessed using hazard ratings based upon topography, slope, geomorphology,
hydrology, geology and engineering geological properties of slope materials. For rating purposes, slopes
were classified as either rock or soil. Areas with less than 1 m soil depth were classified as rock slopes,
whilst areas with greater than I m soil depth were classified as soil slopes. Hazard ratings have been
modified from theMountain Risk Engineering Handbook (ICIMOD, 1991) to allow for local field
conditions. For each identified rating factor, ratings were assigned based on the degree of vulnerability
4.5.1   Underlying rock structure: The major stability-influencing factor on rock slopes is the underlying
rock structure. Along some road sections, lithological and seismo-tectonic components have significant
influence on rock slope stability. Structurally influenced rock slopes have the potential for deep seated and
large-scale instabilities. On soil slopes, the dominant features that influence land stability are soil type,
slope and land use, in combination with the hydro-geological component. Unlike rock slope hazards, land
instabilities on soil slopes are shallow and medium to small scale. A total hazard rating score for each rock
or soil section of alignment was then calculated by adding the individual ratings. Each alignrment section
was then classified as low, medium or high hazard.
-78 -



Low hazard sections are generally stable and should remain so during the construction and
operation of the roads. Medium hazard sections have the potential of small to medium scale instability.
Land instability under this hazard level could be triggered or accelerated by road excavation. High hazard
sections are highly prone to instability and need greater care during construction and operation. A priority
of alignment selection was to avoid high hazard areas, although some sections of the proposed roads had to
cross these areas due to their size down the hillslope face or the need to construct excessively long and
steep roads to traverse around them.
4.5.2 Hazard sections along proposed alignments: There are only limited sections of high hazard rock
slopes along the proposed alignments. Most rock slope hazards along the alignments are rated as medium
and are not expected to pose serious risk to the safety of the road corridor during construction and
operation. However, excavation of these road sections needs to be strictly controlled. Along some road
alignments, high hazard sections of soil slopes extend for significant lengths. However, a considerable
length of the proposed alignments is rated as medium hazard. Appropriate drainage, spoil management and
bio-engineering techniques on cut and fill batters on medium hazard slopes are required to stabilize these
slopes.
4.6    Ecology: Ecological degradation from the construction of the proposed roads will result from the
direct loss of vegetation from ROW clearing. It also has the potential to occur due to the indirect loss and
degradation of vegetation, habitat and species in the region of influence (ROI). Ecological degradation of
the ROI may occur from vegetation harvesting and wildlife poaching by the construction workforce, and
increased harvesting during road operation due to greater accessibility and additional local demands from
road-induced activities.
4.6.1  Ecological degradation due to improved access: The construction of new roads provides
improved access to the valleys through which the roads pass and to neighboring areas, thereby enabling
easier natural resource access and removal. In addition, new roads promote service industries along their
corridors, resulting in a population increase in these areas and an increased local demand for natural
resources to service the new businesses and for personal use. The main sites where increased natural
resource harvesting is likely to occur are from forests. Almost all forest areas neighboring the proposed
road alignments are currently easily accessible, therefore the road will only increase access to these forests,
not open them up to access.
The extent of a road's ROI in terms of increased harvesting and wildlife poaching cannot be
definitively bounded. The area of increased forest resource use will be largely determined by forest access
and product demand, the ease of harvest and transport of forest resources to the roadside and to the market,
and the creation of additional resource demands along the roadside. Ecological degradation within the road
ROTs is likely to be greatest near the road and is likely to continue to occur over an extended period of time.
For this assessment, a 5 km linear distance perpendicular to the alignments, providing a 10 km wide RO1,
has been adopted as the extent of the ROI. This equates to approximately 0.5-1 day's walk from the
alignments.
- 79 -



4.7    Vegetation: Vegetation within the road ROWs and ROIs will be affected by road construction and
operation. A direct impact on vegetation will occur as a result of ROW clearance, where 0.62 km2 and
0.30 km2 of forest and shrubland respectively will be cleared. This is a relatively minor loss of forest and
shrub habitat, particularly when compared to the total ROI forest area of 1,326 km2. The forest loss
from ROW clearing will fragment contiguous areas of forest and shrub habitat, but given the limited width
of clearing (generally 15 m or less), this impact will be minor. The conservation value of the ROW
vegetation does not appear to be high, as all forest are highly utilized and no unique plant communities
were identified. A loss of vegetation will also occur from increased forest harvesting of fuelwood, fodder
and timber within the ROI during road operation.
Local markets will be established along the roadsides, which will result in an increased local fuel
demand. This fuelwood demand will primarily be met from local forests, resulting in some degradation. In
addition, an increased demand for timber for building materials and forage for livestock raising will also be
mainly met from ROI forests. The volumes of these additional demands are difficult to quantify, as the
roadside population increases and new business demands cannot be accurately estimated. Based on
established roads in the western regions of Nepal, these additional demands are likely to be relatively small
and concentrated at a number of sites.
A moderate to significant ecological impact that may occur in the ROIs could be an increase in the
harvesting of herbs in areas around Jumla and Martadi. Current harvesting in these areas is at excessive,
unsustainable levels according to District Forest Office staff. The opening of the Martadi and Jumla roads
is likely to produce increased competition among herb traders and will allow individuals and local
communities to more easily transport their products to the Terai, which may lead to the increased
harvesting of this valuable resource.
4.8    Wildlife: Wildlife will be impacted upon by a loss or degradation of habitat from ROW clearing,
increased forest use, increased poaching and road kills. ROW clearing will remove 0.62 km2 and 0.30
km2 of forest and shrubland habitat respectively. This is a minor impact, particularly when compared to
the total ROI forest area of 1,326 km2. ROI forest and shrubland habitat degradation or loss over time is
difficult predict. The net likely effect is some general forest degradation around new and expanding
roadside market centers.
The conservation value of habitat that will be lost from the ROWs and degraded in the ROTs is
considered to be low given the current high use and broad local distribution of these forest types. Most
forests and shrublands within the ROTs are currently accessed and heavily utilized, as evidenced by the
crown cover densities almost exclusively in range of 10-70%. The illegal poaching of animals is currently
occurring within the road ROTs, and is likely to increase due to the road-induced increase in population
along the alignments, particularly near the expanding settlements.  In terms of potential road kills of
wildlife, FRR (1998) commented that limited numbers of wildlife are affected by roads in Nepal, possibly
due to low traffic speeds and the warning effect of vehicle noise levels. Road kills are likely to be minor as
the projected daily vehicle movements are very low (between 28-64 in the first year of operation), with the
majority of traffic likely to occur during daylight hours.
4.9    Fisheries: The direct impact on aquatic ecology from a reduction in water quality due to increased
river sediment loads will be very minor given the limited duration of construction and the relative size and
quantities of sediment that may be generated by the roads in comparison to natural river sediment loads.
4.10   Protected Areas: Increased local demands for basic forest products are unlikely to impact upon
- 80 -



Khaptad, Rara and Shey Poksundo National Parks as these products can be harvested from forests closer
to the roads. If an impact does occur, it is likely to result from the increased harvesting of higher value
forest products, such as herbs, due to the improved ease of resource export created by road access, or
illegal harvesting associated with increased tourism.
Closer road access than the proposed Martadi road already exists to Khaptad National Park at two
locations therefore no significant impact on the Park is expected. The estimated minimum walking time
from the proposed Jumla road to the nearest Rara National Park boundary is 1.5 days, therefore if the
Jumla road indirectly promotes Park degradation, it is likely to be to a minor extent. Likewise, Shey
Poksundo National Park is approximately 34 km from the nearest point on the proposed Jumla road (Jumla
township), with an estimated minimum walking time of 2 days, therefore if Park degradation occurs, it is
likely to be to a minor extent.
5.0    OTHER B10-PHYSICAL IMPACTS
5.1    Archaeological, religious and cultural sites a total of 26 archaeological, religious and cultural
sites are located within the VDCs crossed by the proposed roads, but given that no sites are located within
200 m of the proposed alignments, direct impacts from road construction activities are unlikely to occur.
5.2    Noise and vibration: noise will be generated during construction from blasting, hammering and
other excavation activities. The most significant noise generated will come from blasting. Since blasting
will not be regularly produced during construction and will be carried out during the daytime, the
associated noise pollution is considered to be minor.
During road operation, vehicle noise levels within 50 m of the roads are expected to slightly exceed 65 dBA
(in Canter, 1996). Approximately 200 m from the roads, vehicle noise levels will only be marginally above
background levels. Since the total number of vehicle movements per day are projected to be less than 70 on
the proposed roads, noise impacts from traffic will be minor.
5.3    Air quality. the deterioration in air quality from dust generation and vehicle emissions during road
construction and operation will be a relatively minor environmental impact. Air quality will not be
significantly affected because of the limited duration of construction at any one site, and the limited number
of vehicles and the dispersed nature of traffic that will utilize the roads in areas with generally good air
quality.
5.4    Drinking water catchments none of the proposed alignments cross major town water supply
catchments. Damage to small village drinking water supply facilities may result from catchment
destabilization from road excavation and the poor disposal of excess fill, but this will generally be
minimized by mitigation measures. Where the alignments reach destination district headquarters, they
approach these towns from below and terminate on the lower side, therefore they do not cross the main
water supply catchment areas.
6.0    SOCIAL IMPACTS
HMGN's Eighth Plan (1992-1997), as well as the Agricultural Perspective Plan, emphasize the
importance of rural road linkages in the development process. The lack of appropriate levels of
infrastructure (of which rural roads are a key component) is seen as a major impediment to community
development. Apart from the periodic repair and maintenance of highways, thEighth Plan, therefore,
proposed the construction of 1,200 km of rural roads, 125 km of main tracks and 830 km of mule trails
- 81 -



(NPC, 1997). The RMD Project, particularly the new road section, is anticipated to aid the Government's
poverty alleviation efforts.
This emphasis on the role of roads in economic growth and poverty alleviation highlights the fact
that roads create opportunities for development, for instance, by stimulating new or enhanced
income-generating opportunities. These indirect impacts are often much more significant than the direct
impacts caused during road construction (e.g. land acquisition and construction employment opportunities),
since they may induce enduring socio-economic changes. The positive reaction of roadside communities
and district officials to road construction, underscores the importance attached to these indirect impacts.
Their support of the project does not imply a lack of concern over property, but a belief that the
development potential associated with the roads outweighs direct adverse impacts.
4.1    Corridor of Impact: Given the context of local subsistence farning practices, the acquisition of
land within a ROW as specified in DOR design standards (norrnally 30 m) will have far-reaching effects on
roadside households and communities. In order to minimize land acquisition and population displacement,
DOR and IDA agreed to limit the ROW on the new roads to an initial corridor of 15 m (except where a
wider area is required for construction purposes). Even though DOR design standards refer to a 30 m (and
in some cases 50 m) ROW, DOR will have no right to the land located in the "remaining" ROW. Any
future acquisition on the roads will be undertaken according to the principles established in the Entitlement
Policy (refer to the Resettlement Action Plan for details).
6.2    Loss of Land and Buildings: Selection of a 15 m ROW (as opposed to a 30 m impact corridor)
has greatly reduced land take and population displacement, as follows:
Private land: Acquisition of private land has been reduced from approximately 276.47 ha (if a 30
m ROW had been established) to 146.99 ha (for a 15 m ROW). For cultivated land alone, acquisition is
down from an estimated 193.72 ha to 96.71 ha. An estimated 3,801 landowners will be affected by land
acquisition, increasing by about 758 owners if a 30 m ROW had been established.
Buildings: Relocation of private and communal buildings (excluding other structures such as
irrigation canals) has been reduced from 597 (if a 30 m ROW had been established) to 417 (for a 15 m
ROW). The impact on private buildings is down from 567 to 388, while the relocation of residential
structures has been reduced from 306 to 177. The number of affected sheds has also been considerably
reduced (from 119 to 90), while the impact on commercial establishments is marginally reduced (from 137
to 126).
The magnitude of household displacement is small in comparison to the total number of affected
property owners (166 households, or just over 4% of the total). Estimated after the deduction of multiple
house ownership. Refer to the RAP for details. Nevertheless, for those being displaced, the experience is
significant and often traumatic. Based on the average household size (7.9 people) obtained in the sample
survey, the displaced households consist of an estimated 1,311 persons. Apart from compensation for
building losses, rehabilitation measures will be necessary to ensure effective re-establishment of these
persons and owners of displaced commercial establishments. Appropriate rehabilitation measures will also
be required for those households whose production levels are most adversely affected by land acquisition.
6.3    Construction Employment Opportunities Access to construction employment opportunities is
an important (albeit short-term) beneficial impact associated with a development, and should, therefore be
maximized. The biggest constraint to achieving this aim, appears to be the unavailability/irregular supply
of local workers resulting from agricultural obligations and seasonal labor migration, as well as
dissatisfaction with wage rates being offered by contractors.
- 82 -



6.4   Social Change and Development: Other road studies in Nepal have noted the potential social
development effects associated with improved access and mobility. Since the new road sections are situated
in the two most underdeveloped regions of the country, the RMD Project is expected to contribute in a
similar manner to:
-An improvement in food supply and a reduction in the cost of consumer items;
-An improvement in the overall health status of people and a reduction in child mortality rates, through
improved access to health facilities, counseling and information;
Possible increases in literacy rates through improved access to education;
-An improvement in the position of vulnerable social categories and groups, through the creation and
stimulation of income-generating opportunities and a reduction in social and economic disparities.
Apart from improving access to services and facilities, participants in local group discussions cited
the following potential (positive and negative) effects of the roads on their livelihoods:
*     Easier access to agricultural inputs (e.g. fertilizer and seeds);
*     Opportunities for the export of agricultural and livestock products;
Opportunities for the establishment of local businesses;
Changes to the use of porters and other providers of non-vehicular transport;
A reduction in the agricultural production levels of households whose land is acquired;
*     An increase in land prices along the road and at market areas;
Migration of "outsiders" to the area to buy land and start businesses;
Transmission of other cultural practices and fashions to the roadside settlements;
*     Migration of the young generation to urban areas; and
*     Smuggling of medicinal plants from the area.
Some of these changes may occur relatively quickly, others may happen more slowly, while yet
others may require specific development interventions to materialize. For example, a profit-maximizing
response to new and enhanced commercial opportunities in the agricultural sector is not necessarily
automatic. It is more likely where there already is an established commercial agricultural sector, together
with associated credit services, input supplies and marketing arrangements. Additionally, subsistence
farmers may (understandably) be averse to diverting resources away from a known and secure form of
farming practice to a commercial one which carries considerable risks. Thus, while the new roads will
create the potential for economic diversification, and while nearly all of the household respondents believed
that the roads would provide these opportunities, it may take time for them to be fully realized.
7.0    DESIGN. CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE MITIGATION MEASURES
Environmental impact mitigation measures have been incorporated into the preliminary design to
date, and detailed additional mitigation measures have been recommended in the Environmental
Management Action Plan (EMAP) and Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Design, construction and
maintenance mitigation recommendations for the proposed roads have been formulated to avoid or mitigate
potential bio-physical impacts. These recommendations were primarily formulated from observations of
constructed roads leading to or in the vicinity of the proposed aligmnents. They cover the major design
features of excavation, embankment formation, drainage and re-vegetation, as well as pre-construction,
construction and post-construction management by all involved parties.  In addition, specific
socio-economic impact mitigation measures have been proposed for the displacement of people and
acquisition of land for the roads.
The preliminary design of the proposed roads was undertaken based on two main requirements:
- 83 



* "Fair weather earth track" design standards; and
*  Low cost environmentally friendly roads.
As required by DOR, these two design requirements were paramount, setting the basis for road
design.  Within these requirements, where possible, environmental mitigation measures have been
incorporated to date, as described below. A compromise was reached between short-term cost savings on
road construction and long-term enviromnental damage and high road maintenance and repair costs.
8-4   IMPROVEMENT PROPOSALS
The RMDP includes proposals for the rehabilitation of degraded land and for the enhancement and
development of environmental assets identified during road alignment inspections and discussions with
local people and District officials, which have been assessed as part of the EIA.   These include
improvement of existing degraded environmental areas i.e., community forest establishment and support
(creation of Community Forests within the ROIs and provide some extension support to Forest User
Groups), trail improvement, re-vegetation of degraded land, land slide stabilization, market center planning
and cash crop development.  The principals followed in developing these, include cost effectiveness,
sustainability, independent management by local bodies, no replacement of existing programs i.e., no
effective existing Govt. programs will be replaced.
9.0    ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN (EMAP):
The output of the EIA process, i.e., the Environment Management Action Plan (EMAP), follows
HMGN as well as the IDA's guidelines. The format and outline for the EMAP includes a framework for
implementation including institutional responsibility, management roles and public participation;
mitigation measures, covering planning, design, pre-construction, construction, post construction, and
includes costs of mitigation, and contractual clauses. The EMAP also outlines environmental management
monitoring (environment performance indicators) and reporting measures covering all phases, procedures
and remedial actions, including records, compliance reporting and audits, an Environmental Management
Activity table and bio-engineering recommendations.
The EMAP (i) defines the environmental management principles and guidelines for the
pre-construction, construction and post-construction phases of road development; (ii) describes the
practical mitigation measures that shall be implemented on all road construction and ancillary sites to
prevent or mitigate environmental impacts; (iii) establishes the roles and responsibilities of all parties
involved in the implementation of environmental controls; and (iv) establishes a supervision, monitoring,
auditing and reporting framework. It clearly sets out environmental goals and management measures, and
is to be used by DOR, IDA, the Supervision Consultants and Contractors. A number of statutory
requirements and guidelines are to be complied with for the environmental management of road
construction and rehabilitation works in addition to the conditions assessed during the EIA process and
outlined in the EMAP. These include:
* Land Acquisition Act, 2034 (1977) - the permanent acquisition of private land and buildings have to
be acquired in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
* Public Roads Act, 2031 (1974) - temporary land acquisition must be in accordance with Section 14 of
the Act. Section 16 of the Act, DOR are obliged to plant trees on either side of public roads according
to need. Concerned villages and town Panchayats are then required to look after and protect the trees.
Under Section 17, DOR are permitted to obtain earth, stone or sand from any land adjoining the
right-of-way.
- 84 -



The principal DOR guidelines, which have to be complied with, are:
* Environmental Management Guidelines (DOR, 1 997b).
* Bio-Engineering Information - Rate Analysis Norns (Interim), Standard Specifications (Interim),
Lists of Species and Supporting Information (DOR, 1996).
The environmental requirements contained in the EMAP only relate to the detailed design,
construction and post-construction maintenance of the roads infrastructure. The mitigation of long-term
operational impacts of roads and road-induced activities on the environment are covered in the EIA.
An Environment Management Activity Table has been included in the BPIP.
10.0 ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION COSTS
The cost of environmental mitigation measures has been estimated in Table 2.4. No allowance has
been made for mitigation measures that are included in the standard road designs, including drains,
retaining walls and other standard road works. In addition, the cost of the supervision of environmental
mitigation works by the Supervising Consultant has also not been costed in this section as it is covered in
the total cost of project supervision.
Table -2.4 -, Cost Estimates of Environmental Mitigation Measures
Estimated   Estimated                     P toDosed Roaw *                    Total Cost
Measure        Total     Cost/Unit   Darch.    Martadi    Mang.        Jumla    Jajarkot    (NRs.)
Units     (NRs .
Bio-engineering   866,928 ml    70      8,889,000   13,624,000  5,836,000  25,476,000  6,860,000  60,685,000
works            (86.7 ha)              (126,989)   (194,625)   (83,376)   (363,938)  (98,000)*
Construction of     47        11,000     88,000     165,000    77,000     132,000    55,000     517,000
standpipes and                            (8)        (15)       (7)        (12)        (5)
associated drains  ____ _
Construction of     23        9,000      27,000     54,000     27,000     81,000     18,000     207,000
trail steps to/from                       (3)         (6)        (3)       (9)         (2)
the road   _
Reconnection of     30        3,500      7,000      98,000     28,000     77,000     14,000     224,000
major irrigation1                         (1)        (14)       (4)        ( 11)       (2)
drainage channels                                I          I_I_I_I
Total                                   9,011,000   13,941,000  5,968,000  25,766,000  6,947,000  61,633,000
The total estimated cost of environmental mitigation measures in NRs 61,633,000.
10.1   Bio-engineering costs: The area of bio-engineering required along each road has been estimated by
multiplying batter areas for different slope class cross-sections by the associated road lengths, except for
Jajarkot where the total batter area was estimated. The average cost per m2 of road batter to be
bio-engineered was calculated by estimating the based on extent of each of the recommended techniques
along the proposed roads. The unit rates for each technique are provided in Table 2.5. It is estimated that
bio-engineering will cost an average of NRs. 70/m2. This cost includes the maintenance of planting for I
year (I 15% allowance), which covers the replanting of areas or individual plants that have not survived
- 85 -



due to normal conditions. The replanting of slides due to slope instability is not included in this estimate.
Table -2.5 -: Bio-engineering Cost Rates
Bio-engineering Measure                  Unit                       Rate/Unit
QVRs.)
Slope preparation                            I m2                           5.6
Grass planting                               I M2                          37.0
Tree/shrub planting                         I plant                        15.3
Brush layering                                I m                          35.4
Fascines                                      I m                          38.4
Bolster cylinders                             1 m                         229.7
Palisades                                     I m                          116.3
Jute netting                                 1 m2                         69.3
The number of standpipes required has been estimated at one standpipe per 2 km of
settlementlcultivation land use along each road. The distance of settlement or cultivation crossed provides
a good indication of the number of water supply lines that will be cut. Thaiumber of trail steps that need
to be constructed has been estimated for each road based on the number of significant trails that cross the
proposed road and will continue to be used following road construction. Thaumber of major irrigation
and drainage channels requiring reconnection by either pipes or channel reconstruction has been estimated
by doubling the number of these features recorded in the 15 m wide ROW during the field survey.
10.2   Environmental Improvement Costs The costs estimates of environmental improvements
proposed in Section 10 are summarized in Table 2.6. The total estimated cost of environmental
improvements is NRs 10,914,000.
- 86 -



Table -2.6 -: Cost Estimates of Environmental Improvement Measures
Measure                                l mproved Road I                        Total Cost
Darchula   Martadi   Mangalsen    Jumla    Jajarkot    (NRs.)
Community Forest          903,000    1,354,000    451 ,000    2,709,000    903,000    6,320,000
established/support
Trail improvement            -           -         158,000     330,000                  488,000
Revegetation of degraded                           85,000         -                     85,000
land
Landslide stabilisation      -           -                     324,000        -         324,000
Road head and market      664,000    692,000       276,000     1,657,000    394,000    3,683,000
centre nlannina*
Cash crop development        -           -            -           -                     14,000
Total                     1,567,000   2,046,000    970,000    5,020,000   1,297,000   10,914,000
11.0 PUBLIC CONSULTATION
The preparation of this EIA involved consultation with local people, Government officials and
other stakeholders during the scoping of the EIA, data collection and alignment selection, and formulation
of mitigation and improvement measures. The people consulted and subjects covered during the course of
the EIA are summarized in Table 2.7.
Table -2.7 -: Summary of Public Consultation
EIA Phase                People/Organizations Consulted                 Subject
Scoping                     All interested stakeholders.            Notification of the proposed
development and canvassing of
opinions on environmental impacts.
People living along the proposed alignments,  Project introduction and identification
and community representatives.          of environmental and social issues
related to road development and
potential mitigation measures.
District Government Officials, Chief District
Officers, Local Development Officers,
Chairmen of District Development
Committees.
Kathmandu-based Government and
non-government organizations
Data Collection and Alignment  Local people and VDC representatives.  Identification of potentially affected
Selection                                                           household and community assets;
presence of protected flora and fauna
species; forest use.
- 87 -



District Government officials.           Local development issues, agriculture,
forestry, wildlife, health issues in the
project districts.
Sample surveyed households and businesses,   Household statistics; opinions on
and other affected households during asset  potential asset loss and population
recording.                               displacement.
Formulation of Mitigation and   Samples surveyed households and businesses.  Compensation and resettlement
Improvement Measures                                                  preferences, interest in working on
the proposed roads.
GTZ ("green roads").                     Low impact road design and
construction methods.
IUCN.
Road construction contractors.           Employment of local labor in road
construction.
Engineers Association of Nepal, Geological    Comments on the draft EIA.
Society of Nepal.
12.0 CONCLUSIONS
Road construction in the Middle and High Mountains of Nepal is usually a high impact activity,
particularly during construction activities and in the initial few years following construction. The
environmental impacts that result from road construction and the subsequent operation of these roads are
primarily a function of the bio-physical and socio-economic landscape' crossed by the roads and the
standard of road works constructed.
The combination of steep topography, often unstable geology, high rainfall intensities during the
monsoon season, intensive land use and a relatively high rural population density usually means that road
construction results in the destabilization of terrain, the loss of production land, displacement of people and
other significant related impacts. These impacts cannot be avoided but can be minimized through the
application of acceptable risk management road designs and mitigation measures.
In regard to road design, the RMD Project has incorporated environmental mitigation measures
into alignment refinement, road specifications and construction management recommendations (see
Diagram 2). Sensitive bio-physical and socio-economic features have been avoided along the proposed
alignments wherever possible by refining the general alignments proposed by DOR. Road specifications,
operating within "low cost" road design limitations and standard DOR specifications, have been prepared to
achieve effective operational roads, long-tenn road stability, low maintenance costs and to minimize
environmental impacts. In addition, the Environmental Management Action Plan (EMAP) has included a
strict construction supervision and reporting methodology to try to ensure that designed road works are
constructed.
Table 2.7-: Main Constraints, Mitigation Measures and Likely Benefits and Impacts
Major Constraints              Main Mitigation Measures         Main Likely Impacts /Benefits
- 88 -



Bio-physical                    Alignment selection              ROW land loss (295 ha)
- steep topography                   - avoid sensitive features    Increased land instability
- often unstable geology           Road design                     Some ecological degradation
- monsoon rainfall                   - maximize road stability     ROW structure loss
Socio-economic                  Construction supervision              (est. 417 buildings)
- relatively high population  Compensation/rehabilitation      Population displacement
density                                   - for private asset loss            (est. 166 households)
- intensive land use                                               Improved access
Available funds                                                  Stimulation of the local economy
- "low cost" roads
The main bio-physical and socio-economic constraints have been avoided where possible, leaving the main
determinants of the level of environmental impacts being "low cost" road designs and road construction.
A relatively high "low cost" road design has been proposed, incorporating significant slope stabilization and
drainage measures. The construction of these measures will significantly lengthen the annual operational
periods of the roads and minimize the level of environmental impact that will result, particularly in terms of
land stability, loss of productive resources and off-site damage to adjacent features, primarily from excess
fill disposal and sedimentation. These measures will also significantly reduce the subsequent maintenance
costs incurred.
The construction of the designed road works by the construction Contractor is the final main determinant of
environmental impact. If construction is regularly and strictly supervised against the road designs and
EMAP conditions, including non-payment for sub-standard work, environmental impacts can be effectively
minimized.
Tlhe major potential environmental impacts and associated mitigation measures are summarized in Table
2.8.
Table -2.8-: Summary of Major Potential Environmental Impacts and Associated Mitigation
Measures
Potential Environmental Impact                         Main Mitigation Measures
Loss of agricultural land and            Location of alignment on lowest value land.
forest resources along the ROW           Cut and fill balancing where possible.
Controlled disposal of excess fill.
*     Extensive use of retaining walls on 25-60 slopes, including breast
walls to stabilize cut slopes below irrigated cultivation.
Landslides                               Location of road alignment to avoid major unstable sites
wherever possible.
Minimum excavation by attempting to balance cut and fill,
and by the extensive use of retaining walls on 25-60 slopes.
Use of control led blasting.
Erosion and Sedimentation                Construction of a stable road formation.
Location of cross-road drains at natural drainage sites.
Controlled disposal of excess fill.
*     Bio-engineering.
-89 -



Ecological degradation                     Promotion of Community Forestry in the ROW.
Prohibition of forest resource use by construction workers,
and supply of kerosene for cooking to workers.
Loss of private assets                     Asset compensation - cash at replacement cost for full or partial
loss of buildings; cash at market value for land losses; support
with identification of replacement land.
*     Lease of temporarily occupied land.
*      Displacement allowance for relocated households and businesses,
and disruption allowance for severe impact on agricultural production.
Rental stipend for occupants of rented accommodation.
Cash compensation for loss of trees, based on 3-5 years
annual production losses.
Loss of community services and             Repair or full replacement of facilities.
facilities
Impacts on cultural traditions             Support programs and counseling.
Social and economic                        Support programs for alternative income-generating
development                                opportunities.
Support with access to poverty alleviation and credit programs.
- 90 -



IBRRD 30306
82'                                                                                  NEPAL
At.  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ROAD MAINTENANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*  '~~~*~~,t% ~~NEW ROAD DEVELOPMENT AND UPGRADING COMPONENT
'4  **t**%  I                                                                    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~NEW ROAD CONSTRUCTION  NEW ROAD CONSTRUCTION:
4%  /                                                            .'--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -"-- ~~~~~~~~~UPGRAD[NG OF EXS.STNG ROADS  TeriiLength (kin)
.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARY ALL-WEATHER HIGHWAYS Chmei-Docuo3.
30 6-/-4    1'~4                                                                                                                                 G RAVELLED/EARTH-EN ROADS       Safbia  AraI37.0
4                      /                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15.0
DARCH-ULA   j                            N.    HUMLA                ',.4                                           INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS          afbgr-MnlsnR 
toorchulo  As   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~DOMESTIC (PAVED) AIRPORTS                                                      ____
r  k                                                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    .'4        0     OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLECTED TOWNS AN VIAE  heeodJjro2.
ESAJHANG             - -                4%.                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~MUNCTPALIT ES19.
A                 5                                               -.                    *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL C-APITA,
Chosupuc  MUGLJ                        '~~~~~~~~'             DATE CT BOUNDARIESUPGRDINGOF EXISTING ROADS:
")UrBAJURA                                                                              STCTBUDRE
F,                                                                                        F       ~~~~~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Te-ini  Length 1km)
BAITADI                                         -                                 *            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ZONE BOUNDARIES  Su,kIst - Kniio  132.0
N~ ~ ~~ 0)rad                                                                                ;..eT.  DEVELOPMENT REGION ROUNDARIES             -hedegud         6]
~~  .,~~~~~      I.         N"  A                             \.  -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAIRIES  usnge-Sndkhru        9.
Dadlpldhu.              SilgqhAi~                               Jumlo  '-.Toa                                                                                                           252.7
*o O ~       uSonfebogak    KALIKC T             JUMRLA 
,..DADEILDHURA          DOTI             C ugl~ Ma-m                                   ir                   DLA4    
p         -.              ~~~~~~~4, ACHHrAMY''                                  
M ahe   an ao r                   7 -                                                                                                                U T  N
* - KANCHM Ri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MSTN
KAILALl                D~~~LAELEKH    JAJARKOTFC
SLLRKPTLT\          Ja1ar~k Id        RUKUME                                                      MA NG           >     4,
K6aIi                           9ir don-  o
4%  * 0                                     ~~~~~~~~ ~~SAJYAN                                 4S"0B                                                 < 
t10   g d     tdiatrMYAG~w~--
Qhorupanis  051tAp0t  1                                           C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  A   V   0DA   K   1
BSARDIAA                                                 Liaceg         RALUN           -              KASKI        LAMJUNG           GORKH(1-A
I              o~~~~~Kh.Ipur   B~ 'ROLPA                                     B.91sgln                    Pokhaoao    B
TB"  ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~         0N  ~~~~~~~Q(2BNKE ~~Tusiur.PYUTHAN                                                                       2oShr 
(D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
O      20     40      BT      BOS Kd.-W,                             4%
L               ~I      I                                                                                          4CITNH
I I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                       ILA
O     10   20    30    40   TO    60RMil-                                                   AGD                                                 on.
TB S                                                                                                                                                                  B.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B IN 
BE,.  I                                                                                                                                                                                 B~~~~~~~~~  D I A  O'd  aa
-26-    INDIAe   , ,y
r.r'.  OSESI  ASTE, 5Ai SADSHN
SB   INIA              8-'                                                    82'A ,nsne,,,,,e    o 
IBCTOBER EBBS



