HIS MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT OF NEPAL
MINISTRY OF WORKS AND TRANSPORT
DEPARTMENT OF ROADS
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NEW ROAD DEVELOPMENT
AND UPGRADING COMPONENT
:~ I   FINAL REPORT
E-257
VOL. 5
. ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   .
-               ~~~ENVIRONMENTAL
* --:<- -              ;      |FlMANAGEMENT
-                        ~~~~~ACTION
~~~~ ~~PLAN
-For Road Upgrading
SMEC International Pty. Ltd.,
Cooma, NSW, Australia
in alSOCwatWfl w
CEMAT Consu=tants (Pv.) Ltd., Nepal
June 1999



-                                ~~~~~~SM.EC
I INTRODUCTION
1.1 BACKGROUND
This Environmental Mianagement Action Plan (EMLAP) has been prepared for the Depar-nent of Roads
(DOR) to set out the environmental manazement requirements associated with the upgadine of three
roads under the Road laintenance and Development Project (RNID Project).
This EMAP has been developed based on the inspection of proposed upgrading roads.
assessment of proposed site-specific upgrading works and the findings of the Initial
Environmental Examination (IEE).
1.2 PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Three proposed roads which form part of the strategic road nerwork in the Western and Mid-Western
Development Reaions of Nepal will be upgraded under the RMD Project (Table 1.1).
Tabie 1.1: Roads Proposed for Upgrading
Road              Length        DOR Road           Road      Distmcts Crossed
_  (km)      Classification*     Number
Surkhet - Kaiikot            132.0   National Hizhwav         H13     Surkhet Daiiekh.
X____ ____ ____ ____ ____   ________   ______K alikot
Dharapani - Chhedegad     I  61.5   j !Major Feeder Road  i   F47     Surkhet. Salvan.
_________________________  ________ _____________________________Jajarkot
,Gorusin2e - Sandhikharka      5 9.2   '     FlajeorFeder Road  F IF    Kapilbasmu.
,Arzhakhachi
Total                        252.7
Source: Classification and Desizn Srandards. DOR. i99-.
The three roads are earth roads. operational onlv during the day season (October to June) once
landslides have been cleared.
1.3 AIMS OF THE EMAP
This EMLAP has four primarv aims, name!y to:
1.     Define the environmental management principles and guidelines for the pre-upgrading.
upgading and post-upgradin- phases of road development:
-.     Describe practical rnitigation measures that shall be implemented on all road upgrading
and ancillary sites to prevent or mitigate environmental impacts:
J.     Establish the roles and responsibilities of all parties involved in the implementation of
environmental controls:
4.     Establish a supervision. monitoring. auditing and reporting framework.
The EMl.AP clearly sets out environrmental goals and mana-Jement measures, and is to be used
by DOR. the World Bank. the Supervisinr Consultant and Contractors.
Road Maintenance and Development Project                      1
=_+w;e__o+_ ! 5:,__olOE * A_+;o.- Da- ; . c_   ' f-.-



#SMEC
1.4 STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS AND GUIDELINES
A number of samutor- requirements and guidelines shall be complied with for the
ervironmental management of road upgrading work-s in addition to the conditions in this
EMLAP. These include:
e  Land Acquisition Act, 2034 (1977) - the permanent acquisition of private land and
buildings has to be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
*  Public Roads Act. 2 03 1 (197 4) - temporary land acquisition must be in accordance with
Section 14 of the Act. 'Under Section 16 of the Act. DOR are obliged to plant trees on
either side of public roads according to need. Concerned villages and town Development
Corrnittees are then required to look after and protect the trees. Under Section 17, DOR
are permitted to obtain earth stone or sand from anv land adjoining The right-of-way.
The principal DOR guidelines which have to be complied with are:
*  Environmental .anagement Guidelines (DO.R 1997b).
*  Bio-Engineering Information - Rate Analysis NVorms (Inrerim), Standard Specifications
(Interim), Lists of Species and Supporting Informanion (DOR. 1996).
2                         Road Maintenance and Development Project
Zndirrmnmpnts( M.anscemprnf At-*ren Plarn .'nr Pn=rf (bnorwrfinr



3Z                   -..-..-.--.-.--.-.- 3SVHd 1VNOIVl 3dO  i                5
Z          .3SSHd NOiflomidSNO3-iSOd  £ 
.z                     - -.. ....  3SVHd NOI tmld.ELSNOD                   Z-9
Z ..SVHd NOIIlOn'aISNOO-3Ed  V-G
CZ         .ONIlOd3E  CQNV   N[IOIINOW  INOISIA1dlnS  iLiS
.Z N3WA1Ad SO S)SO M Cgl27dLWOC wO NOilVCdlIEC   £ >
.ZL------uC!;ei!iq24aS ii's Jeml!uv 91. >
GZ   ...UO!.od .SI.N pU2 ...    .4                           £1Z b
6. -..................ua..U.a...                     aoJo4.oM o   Lz t
9. -.  sdLueC a.o-oppoM 1 ..-
L.                       ..6uip6dlooS  6 Z 
9..........................................Slid MOJuOS pue saufenO  28Z t
91s;Me  -- -- -  --ssA;o 1UaWazlsUIad  LZ br
s;. .............................................. le sodsiClll!.4  g -Z b7
.........................        aSn--a  pue 5UlAeS A !osdoj  S
£.                  uoinru;suoo juauiNueqqw   DUE UoCBeAeo=x     5 Z
L .................................................  aouelealo     uOl;e;a5GA  L'Z   b,
.. -SVHd NOi Dfdl SNOC  Z t
*...         .        leAodV pue 5u!55a 'Aa/unS aals>oJ        ,
01;.                                                    . U!U!BJ± £1.L r
)... . .. . . .. ... . . . . .. ..   ...... . . . . . .... . . . . .. . ..  - -i e   i  C -  -- - s!u7   z
n.UCQSlStb:0 pUE1   V 1 t
6.....................        ............ 3SVHd NO] i   ln.LSNO3d         L b1
6 . -..----.. .iN3W3EVNVW NOIloflE.lSNOO CVou M
8 .N1173Av' 33Vdlns cvoi z £
L .      -..-..--                 .           NEIS3Q CHIV.L3C lVNId  Z £
9 .-.....                                      NSIS30 3EflIOnfIS  VS
g9.--N1stsG sNlQV9dfl Gvou 
,   -.............                            NOCLVdlDVICVd Oll9ld  Z Z
C  S311fIIeSNOdS3E CN', S310' lN3  3E)VNVIN 7VLN3NOSIAN3                       1.Z
-.............. .dV 3 -H± IO NOIIVIN3W3ldINI
.SZ S3NIL3lfl0n  GNV SlN3Wi33Y                      f  AdOILIVIS
......................................  dV           - -d 3H   1   40    SWINI  £   W
-.. . . . . . NOIIdidiDOS3c L3Z2ldd  Z'
..                                                        - --- - -- --- Njool loaolN1 e
siuetuoJ 40 eo qej



6    RECORDS, AUDITS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION .................. 27
6.1        EMAP  RECORDS ................................................                                      27
6.2        SITE AUDITS ................................................                                        27
6.3        CORRECTIVE  ACTION ................................................                                 28
6.4        FINAL AUDIT  SUMMARY ................................................. 28
7    REFERENCES ........................................                                                                  29
APPENDIX
Appendix 1: R.MDP Environmental Mlanagement Activirv Table
TABLE
Table 1 1: Roads Proposed for Upgading ..................................................................... ..............R.
Tabie 3.1: Emban.Iment Desi= Guidelines ................6
FIG URES
Figure  1: RNMD  Project Implementation  Roles ...........................................................................



GSMEC
2 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EMAP
2.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ROLES AND
RESPONSIBILITIES
Responsibilitv for environmental management associated with road upgrading works involves
a number of parties. each with specific responsibilities for particular activities. The five main
parties responsible for the design and implementation of mitigation measures prior to. during
and following road upzrading are:
DOR;
V  Worid Bank;
4  Supervising Consultant:
3 Construction Contractor:
* Bio-engineerin2 Contractor.
DOR. as the projec. proponents. have the ultimate responsible for the supervision of all project
upgrading and environmental management works. Implementation of the RMD Project will be
the responsibility of the DOR Project MIanager.
rTe Supervising Consultant will prepare final detailed designs based on the preiiminary road
unzradina designs and EMLAP desig-n recomrnendations. and supervise the dav-to-dav activities
of the construction Contractor on behalf of DOR. The Supervisinz Consultant wtvill be
responsibie for the technical supervision of road lavout. overseeing contract implementation
and certifvinz works for payment. Tne duties of the Supervising Consultant will include
overall managernent responsibilirv to ensure the effective imolerentation of EMvLAP bi the
Contractor. with reporting direct to the Project Manager. The Supervising Consultant shall
undertake regular inspections and compliance audits of all aspects of work as specified in
EN>LkP.
The construction Contractor shall be responsible for undertaking all duties and worl-s assigned
to him/her in the road upgrading contract. including all specified conditions in this EMAP.
Tne Contractor will work closelv with the SuVervising Consultant to ensure that works are
constructed to standard.
Throughout this EvLAP the construction Contractor is referred to as the "Contractor" and the
Supervising Consultant is referred to as the "Supervising Consultant". The duties assigned to
both these parties can be undertaken bv their nominated representatives (e.g. Field
Supervisors). as approved bv the DOR Project MNanager.
Road Maintenance and Deveiopment Projet3



_'SMEC
A sumary description of each party's duties and responsibilities is provided below.
DOR Project Manager
* Acquisition of all necessarv right-of-way (ROW) land and buildings.
* Review and approval of detailed upgrading road desizns.
*  Obairunin all necessarn permits from HMrG for upgrading and related activities.
* Review and approval of the surveved road alignment and road works (includinz retaining
wall and excavation sites).
-  Review  and approval of proposed ancillary work sites (including workforce camps.
quarries. borrow pits and storage areas).
*  Road maintenance and environmental monitoring and management following handover by
the Conrractor.
World Bank Representative
* Oversee;ing of DOR's project managemrent in accordance with loan conditions. the detailed
upnrading designs and the EMhLAP, including the conduct of periodic site visits to ensure
compliance.
Supervising Consu'ltant (DOR's representative)
*  Preparation of finaI road upgrading desi-as based on the preliminary upgrading desi=s
and ENMAP recommendations.
* Survev and pe-ging of the detailed road upgrading design works.
3 Supervision of the Contractor to ensure that work is undertaken as per the uvzrading
contract:
*  Inspections and reDorTing of Contractor activities to ensure effective implementation of the
EMLAP.
* Auditin- of Contractor works and activities against the conditions set out in the EMLAP.
* Issuinz corrective action requests and conducting follow-up inspections and evaluation of
corrective actions.
* Reporting all non-conformances to the DOR Project Mvlanager.
* Certifying correctly constructed road works for payTnent.
Construction Contractor
* Construction of the detailed upgading design works and implementation of the ENLMP.
*  Participation in site inspections and audits undertaken by the Supervising Consultant.
a implementation of corrective actions in response to requests made bv the Supervising
Consultant regarding specific environmental safeguards.
Road Maintenance and Development Profect
gnvironmenta/ Management Action Plan for Road UDoradinc



SNIEC
Figure 1: RMD Project Implementation Roles
World Bank-                    DORP
Representative              Project Manager
A
Engineer
SuDervising Consultant
Civil Works               Bio-enzineerinn
Conractor               Bio-ene. Conmac.or
2.2 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Local participation in environmental manaeement during road upgrading will initiallv occur
ThrougFh consultation berween the Superv-ising Consultant. Contractor and affected landowhners
and local communities prior to the iimplementation of works. Discussions will be held
re-arding the curting. temporary reconnection and reinstatement of services. the location of
minor drains, the use of loose rock from  adjacent private land and the general upgrading
prograrnre.
A principle of the RMD Project is the employment of local people. Local people vill be
emploved-'in upgrading, bio-engineering and maintenance works. This will provide a direct
economic benefit to the area through empioyment. but more im=ortantly it w,ill establish local
skills to enable the effective and timely maintenanrce of the roads folloWin2 uDrzradinz.
The maintenance of bio-encineering works by local crews is also proposed as maintenance is
more likelv to be performed in a timelv manner by a local team with an interest in protecting
their land than bv an outside team that onlv periodicallv visits the site.
Road Maintenance and Development Project                  5
Fv vi'r-onff Mranacemenr Action Plar' for Ponad Uccradinc



_SMEC
3 ROAD UPGRADING DESIGN
3.1 STRUCTURE DESIGN
Major upgrading road structures were designed in the preliminar, design. includinc earth
embankments. retaining waLils and major cross-road drains. as described below.  Quantirv
estimates for each road were then prepared based on these designs.
Embankments and Retaining Walls
Embankments and retaininz walls were desioned to achieve a minimum road width and long-
tern road stabiliry, and to minimise excess fill. Tne generai design specifications adopted for
cuttings. fill embanakments and retaini  walls were primaril b'ased on slope angle and surface
matenals. as summarised in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: Embankment Design Guidelines
Terrain   Material             Fill Barter                        Cut Barter
Slone, ia r                                                      Cu  are
0)-25'   , Soil      1:1.5 (V:H) compacted fill       1.5:1 (V:H)
emban}nent.
Soil  -    Retaining wall. tvpically dryv stone   iNo steeper than 1.5:1 (V:H) for natura
or _abion. For verv steep slopes.    cut| barne. va,. reauire breast wall
retaninE wall consmuction mav nor t   depending on sire conditions.
>25:     .Rock     ! be practical. therefore the road will  Sound rock can stand vertically. Final
be consmrcted by benching fulliv  batter slope will de?end on rock
into the hillslope.             comoosition and die anzles.
Note: For estimating purposes durinn  preliminary desi_n. cut barters through all rock slopes
were desis:ned wiTh a 10:1 (V:H) slope.
Compacted  earth  fill embankments were preferred  on  all slopes below  25'.   These
embankments can be effectivelv built on slopes of up to 25  by benchinc the slope then
lavering and compacting fill. using a standard 1: 1.5 ('V:H) batter zrade.
Retaining walls were preferred on the vallev side of the road on slopes between 25-60 in order
to attempt to equalise cut and fill and create a stabie road formation. Dry stone retainin2 walls
were considered where the vertical heizht was less than 3 mn. Gabion walls were considered
Ior heizhts above 3 m.
Drainage
Cross-road drains wer-e desizned for specific sub-catchmreni sizes and the specitic cross-
sectional shape of drainage lines, with the provision of 1 in 10 year discharge capacity. Side
drains were desiened with a I in 5 year dischartze canacitv. Tlhese design return periods were
selected as a compromise between flow capacitv and cost given that intense monsoon storms
occur every vear.
5                             Road Maintenance and Development Project
Snzrcrnnmental Manacement Action Plan for Rcad Unoomdinc,



ISMEC
Existing drainage lines were used as drain locations wherever possible in order to collect
concentrated flows where they meet the road and dispose of them  immediately at stabLe
disposal locations. preventing damage to other downslope fearures.
Lined side drains were designed at the base of cut slopes where the cut was not through sound
rock and road grades exceed 5%.
3.2 FINAL DETAILED DESIGN
The final detailed design of the proposed upgrading roads. based on the preliminarn road
desians. will be prepared bv the Supervising Consultant. The Supervising Consultant shall
follow all the design principles adopted in the preliminary desicn. as well as the additional
principles outlined below.
Cut and Fill Equalisation
The detailed design shall attempt to equalise cuI and fill bv fixing the aiTrnment centreline to
t-v to ac:ieve half cut and half fill on all slooes belov 60-. as in the preliminary' desizn.
Excavated fill w"ill be primarily used in compacted earth embankments and to backfill retainin
wails.
Embankments and Retaining Walils
In addition to following the preliminar, design principles for embankment and retaining wall
design. breast walls shall considered at all sites where aligznments cross irrigared cultivation
and the cut bank- is over I m hiah.  ne breast wall shall consist of a gabion wall two -thirds the
heiaht of the cut batter in order to provide a stable. free draining enmbanknent toe wItilst
niriirmisinz costs. This will enable the unzrotected batter zrade above the wall to be reduced to
:1 (I -:H). The breast wall *xill protect these colluvial slopes which are prone to saturation.
and reduce the loss of high value land.
Drainage
Minor cross-road drains and road cross-fall shall be desicned in the detailed road design. These
designs shall be based on reducing the concentration and veiocitv of runoff. and reducing the
potential for drain failure. and hence reducing drain maintenance. .Accordingly. the foilow-ing
drain design criteria and specifications shall be used in the detailed desin.
* Existing drainage lines shall be used as drain locations wherever possible zo collect
concentrated flows where they rneet the road and dispose of them immediatel1 at stable
disDosal locations. preventing damage to other downslope features.
*  Allowing for the above design criteria. minor cross-road drains shall be provided berween
major drains. These drain spacings also approximatelv coincide with the !ength of
overland flow where significant rill erosion will commence. which is critical on road
Road Maintenance and Deveiopment Projec.t                 7
-  t/_'_~no_t An+1rin ~P! f.'r pn7r,  I Innr:n,nr,



grades of less thar. 5% that will not have lined side drains. As a general rule, side drains
should not carrv water for more thanr 200 mn without disposal.
The provision of outfall cross-fall drainage shall be considered at sites where compacted
fill embankments are less than 2 m high. where remining walls occur or on exposed rock
slopes. providing a traffic hazard will not be created. Outfall cross-fall reduces the
concentration of runoff and the reliance on cross-road drains remaining operational during
intense stormns. It also reduces construction costs by reducinc the number of culverts and
length of side drains.
Infall cross-fall drainaae shall be provided where outfall cross-fall is not provided.
Lined side drains shall be provided at the base of cut siopes where the road grade exceeds
5%'o and infall cross-fall drainage is provided. unless the road curting is through rock.
Minor cross-road drains and side drains shall be approximaTely sized according to the sub-
catchment area.
3.3 ROAD SURFACE GRAVELLING
The existing road surface will be graded to reform an even road surface. The road wvill then be
surfaced wvith a compacTed -ravel laver with a thickness and composition as specified in the
contract documentation. The ravel laver is likelv to be between 1 00-250 nmn thick.
Construction Programme
The construction of the project roads shall be staged over '-3 years. thus liraiting the extent of
upgrading in anv one vear. A singie contract shall be aw-arded for each road. Contracts will
include a one vear defect period effective from the completion of road upgrading.
8                           Road Maintenance and Developmeent PrDject
::nvirtnmonts/ M.AnRnrJmPnt A,9-ien PIAn fnr 4tr    / I



"SM£EC
4 ROAD CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT
Environmental management measures shall be implemented to mitigate negative impacts
during pre-constmction, construction and post-construction phases of road upgrading. These
measures are described below for each phase of development. together with the responsibilities
of each partv. All required actions. ti=ng and responsibilities are also summarised in
Appendix 2 for use as a site checklist.
Good environmental management during road upading commences with the correct siting of
proposed works. The strict supervision of works within the pegged sites and in accordance
with approved practices is then required. followed bV the final rehabilitation of sites according
to prescribed practices.
Contractors need to recognise that the road is part of the broader environment. The road runs
next to private and public land that needs to be maintained. Road upgrading must be limited to
the minimal ROW area required and upgrading ac,ivities must minimise off-site impacts.
4.1 PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Prior to the comrmencement of road upgrading. land and building acquisition. permits and
permission to undertake certain upgrading activities. taining and worksite survey and pegging
and approval have to be undertaken or obtained.
4.1.1    Land Acquisition
Private land and buildings have to be acquired where addilional land is required prior to road
upgrading. Acquisition shall be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the Land
Acauisirion .4cr. 2034 for permanent land acquisition and the Public Roads .4c.. 2031 for
temporarv land acquisition.  These provisions have been supplemented with additional
'uidelines contained in the RM,ID Project Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Together, the
provisions and cuidelines require the successful initiation of land acquisition procedures before
the commencement of construction work.
Responsibilities
DOR. as the project proponent. shall ensure that the necessaryv land acquisition procedures are
initiated prior to the commencement of anv related works! including:
* Notice to inform concemed landow-ners of project activities;
* Identification of all affected land parcels and census of affected owners;
* VerificaTion and quantification of land and building losses:
* Finalisation of the list of entitled persons for publication:
Publication of the acquisition notice specifving the evacuation period and compensation
arrangements;
*  Where households and business establishments are displaced. payment of displacement
allowances and compensation shall occur not less than 3 5 days prior to taking possession of
the properties:
Road Maintenance and Development Projec,              9



_bSMEC
Pavment of compensation for other acquired properties shall occur within the periods
specified in the Resettlement Action Plan.
DOR shall provide copies of the RIMD Project land acquisition procedures to the Supervising
Consultant and Conrractor. The Supervising Consultant and Contractor shall adhere to these
procedures.
DOR shall provide a list ot affected property owners to the Supervising Consultant and
C ontractor.
4.1.2    Permits
Permits are required from HM\G to fell trees. undertake qu.arving and undertake certain other
construction activities.  Permission from nrivate landholders is also required to undertak-e
activities on their land.
Responsibilities
DOR. recoQnised as the proponent of the road development work, shall obtain all necessary
permits prior to the commencement of any related works. including:
* Permit to Fell Trees - a request letter mus; be sent to the District Forest Office for a
permri to fell trees in Government or Cormunuitv Forests.
*  Permit for Quarring - a request letter must be sent to the District Forest Office or the
District Development Committee to establish and operate a quarry.
DOR shall also obtain written permission from each Co=munirv Forest User Group for the
clearing of the aiinment through Communitv Forests.
DOR shall provide a copy of all permits and pe-rmissions to the Contractor. Tne Contractor
shall adhere to the terms and conditions of the permits and complv with all statutes relevant to
environrmental management at the site.
The Contractor shall obtain permission in writing from all private landowners on whose land
up-radina activities are to occur. Permission shall be obtained prior to the commencement of
these activities and copies shall be provided to the Supervising Consultant.
4.1.3    Training
Limited training appears to have been 6iven to Contractors' Field Supervisors and construction
workers in the past. which has been reflected in the use of poor construction practices. Most
construction skills appear to have been gained in the field.
In order to help improve the quality of road upgrading and envirornmental management work to
the standard required on the RNID Project. construction and environmrental management
training and accreditation is required for Consultants' Field Supervisors.
1 C                        Roac Maintenance and Development Project



_SMEC
A traning workshop shall be provided in the implementation of the main approved road
upgrading and environmental manaaement measures, including site survev and delineation,
retaining wall and drainage conszruction. slope excavation, excess fill disposal. initial
reve-etation techniques. and environmental monitoring and reporting. The workshop will also
include approved land acquisition procedures. as detailed in the Resettlement Action Plan.
Responsibilities
DOR  shall organise and convene a 5-7 dav "Road Construction and Environmental
Management Training Workshop" at least 1 month prior to the commencement of the first
RMD Project road upgrading contract.
The Contractor shall ensure that his,her Field Supervisor/s attend the "Road Construction and
Environmental  Management Training  Workshop"  and  receive  accreditation  before
commencing work at the site.
The Supervising Consultant shall ensure that all of his;her field staff attend both T.raining
Workshops prior to comtnencing site duties.
4.1.4    Worksite Survey, Pegging and Approval
Tne proposed unorading works and associated ancillarv sites shall be surveved and pegged
pnor to any upzrading or Telated activities to ensure that they are correctlv sited in accordance
with the detailed road desions and permits. This allows previously unnoticed desi= and
environrnental issues to be reco2nised prior to upgrading, and either avoided or mitigared. It
also allows the final verification of affected persons and assets. to be undertaken prior to the
commencement of upDradinc.
All roadwork survev and pegging shall be undertaken wvith a level to ensure that works are
correctly located.
The pegging of the road works and ancillarv sites -enables works to be confined to the
minimum area required. reducing the area of disturbance and loss of productive resources.
Construction workers can clearly see the proposed extent of work and landowners can recover
or harvest resources prior to construction.
Responsibilities
The Supervising Consultant shall survey at least 2.000 m of the proposed road upgrading work
'With a level and peg the road centreline and extent of all works prior to the commnencement of
road construction. The Supervising Consultant and Contractor shall then jointkl inspect the
surveyed works. The Supervising Consultant shall continue to survey and peg at leas- '.000 m
of works in front of the furthest extent of road upgrading work underwav.
Road Maintenance and Development PrDject                I



'S"SEC
The Contractor shall locate and peg each ancillaryv site prior to the commencement of any
ancillarv site activities (including fill disposal sites. quarries and borrow pits, material crushing
stockpile sites. workforce camps and storage areas). Sites shall be located in accordance with
the following criteria:
N No ancillar, site shall be sited within 100 m of an archaeological. reli-ious or cultural site;
and
*  Ancillar, sites. except fill disposal sites. shall be sited above flood level and at least 10 m
awav from watercourses.
.Ancillarv site areas shall be kept to a minrimum to reduce the area of vegetation clearance and
around disturbance. The Contractor shall seek approval to commence work at each ancillarv
site from the Supervising Consultant prior to commencing any related activities.
4.2 CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Road construcTion methods largely dictate the degree of direct environmenral impact that will
result from the upgrading roads. The kev construction methods and programrnme required to
minimise environmental impacts are described in detail below.
4.2.1    Vegetation Clearance
Veaetation ciearance shall be confined to the minimum area recuired for uozrading activities
whithin the ROW in order to limit the loss of production resources. limit damaae to surrounding
features and limit ground disturbance and the associated erosion hazard.   This shall be
achieved by cleariv marking out the extent of the proposed clearing and ensuring that clearing
is oniy undertaken wvithin these areas. Trees Within the boundaries of ancillarv sites shall be
retained whe-eve- possible.
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall clearly mark out the extent of clearinng with pegs at 25 m intervals or less.
staving strictly within the approved worksite areas. The Contractor shall also identifv and
mark individual trees within the extent of clearing that shall be retained. The Contractor shall
seek approval for vegetation clearance from the Supervising Consultant at least I week prior to
the intended comrnmencement date. The Supervising Consultant shall onlv approve clearin:
once DOR has obtained a permit to clear and wrinen per;rission from affected Communiry
Forest Users Groups.
The Contractor shall instruct all construction workers to restriCT clearing to the mark-ed areas
and not to harvest anv forest products for personal consumption or sale.
The Contractor shall ensure that all clearing is undertalken bv hand within the extent of
approved sites onlv. Vesetation clearance along each section of the alignment shall only be
underLaken within I week prior to the associated road excavation workzs in order to minimise
12                          Road Maintenance and Development Project



s,MEC
the period of erosion hazard created bv ground disr,L-bance and the removal of vegetative
cover.
Where possible, the Contractor shall stockpile cleared shrub foliage within the ROW for later
use as a brush layer for barter revegetation.
The Contractor shall protect all remairunn vegetation wvithin the road ROW and at ancillarv
sites bv ensuring that:
No spoil or topsoil is removed or added to the base of remaining trees;
No harmnful materials are placed adjacent to the remaining vegetation:
No vegetation is harvested bv construction workers for their personal use or sale.
4.2.2    Retaining Wall Construction
Retainincg walls shall be constructed prior to any bulk excavation of the existing barter above
the wall site so that backfillina of the wall can occur at the time of excavation. 7mis will save
the double handling of fill and reduce the likelihood of fill sidecastin_ below the road
formation area
Responsibilities
The Supervising Consultant shall survey and peg all retaining wall sites as per the detailed
desians prior to anv excavation. ensuring that thev are correctly sited horizontallv to provide
sufLicient backflll voids. The Supervisinz Consultant and Contractor shall then jointly inspect
all pegged retaining wall sites.
The Contractor shall progressivelv construct retainung walls prior to comnmencing each
associated cut bank excavation. Cut bank excavation above each wall and the backfillin g
behind the wall shall onlv be commenced once the Sunervising Contractor has certified the
retaining wall. Backfilling shall then occur in lavers no deeper than 1O0 mm. with each laver
compacted wkith a small mechanical compactor or hand held tamper before the next layer is
applied.
4.2.3    Excavation and Embankment Construction
All cut and fill banks shall be strictiv constructed to design specifications to ensure that correct
batter grades. road wxidths and earth compaction are achieved. This shall be achieved by fullv
surveving and pegging roadworks prior to constructior.. and strictly inspecting and certifying
them against the detailed designs following construction.
Responsibilities
The Supervisincg Consultant shall survey and peg the crest of all cut batters and the toe of all
earth embankments prior to anv related excavation.  The Supervisincg Consultant and
Contractor shall then jointly inspect all pegged baniks.
Road Maintenance and Development PrDject                 13
r ~ ~ ~ A   -   -       PI-n wn:_-_t  0-4, D/_S,D_SI1



OSMEC
The Contractor shall bench the natural surface foundation of earth embankments prior to filling
to enable the keying in and compaction of earth. Filling shall then occur in lavers no deeper
than 150 mm. with each laver compacted with a small mechanical compactor or hand held
tamper before the next laver is applied.
Note: the use of a mechanical compactor is recommended as it can achieve quick. consistent
compaction.
4.2.4    Drainage
Adequate and stabie cross-road and road surface drainage is essential to ensure that storm
runoff across the proposed roads causes minimal darnage to the road and downslope fearures.
Cross-road drainage shaLI be provided bv causeways and culverts to pass catchment flows past
the road, either over or beneath it. Road surfac- drainage shal be provided bv infall or ouffall
cross-fall and lined side drains to direct runoff off the road surface.
Responsibilities
Tne Supervising Consultant shall survey and peg designed drainage works prior to the
commencement of construction. Wherever possible. drains shall outlet into stable drainage
lines. Where this is not possible. the Supervising Consultant shall consult with adjoining
dowrnsiope landowners on mutuallv acceptable locations for drain outlets.
Tne Supervising Consultant and Contractor shall then jointly inspect all pegged drainage
Xvorks.
The Contractor shall construct all designed drainage works prior to. durincg or irmrnediately
followine road excavation in order to mirnimise the erosion hazard.
Tne Coniractor shall inspect each commenced or completed upggrading work for drainage and
erosion problems after each major storn event during the period of upgrading, and shall repar
all failed drains and take other appropriate action as directed by the Supervising Consultant
4.2.5    Topsoil Saving and Re-use
Topsoil is a valuable resource for the revegetation of cut and fill banks. Accordinglv. it shall
be saved from all ROW sites that will be disturbed during road upgrading.
Topsoil shall be stripped from each site prior to anv associated filling or sub-surface
excavation. It shall be saved bv stockpiiing it adjacent to the upgrading work site. immediately
upsiope of the extent of works
Topsoil shall onlv be respread on batte-s with a Grade of 1:1 (V:H) or flatter. Topsoil spread
on steeDer barters will not stav in place.
t                          Road Maintenance and Development Project
Environmental Manacement Action Plan for Road Unoradino



1aSmJEc
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall save all available topsoil from consruction suies with  the ROW  ard re-
use this material on completed road formation barters approved by the Supervising Consultant.
Topsoiling of a batter shall not occur until The Supervising Consultant has approved the
completed barter.
The Contractor shall also strip and stockpiie topsoil from all temporarily acquired ancillary site
areas that are to be disTurbed.
Stoc'piled topsoil shall be kept separate from othe- materials.
The Contractor shall sow a cover crop on each topsoiled barter within 2 davs of topsoilin.
4.2.6    Fill Disposal
Road upgrading will produce a large volume of excess fill. Excess fill will be derived from the
excavation of the road on slopes above 60°. at sites where box cuts are required to achieve
desiln specifications and at other sites where cut and fill equalisation can not be achieved.
The disposal of excess fill at low impact sites shall be undertaken to minimise damaze to
-environrnental and social features.  Excess fill shall not be sidecast over the edge of the
excavation or placed in small drainage lines. above houses or at other sites where it is lik;ely to
cause damacQe to narural feazures or stuctures.
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall identify and peg out permissable fill disposal locations. Perntissabie fill
disposal locations include:
I Borrow pits voids.
*  3uildinmc sites:
* Erosion gullies to be rehabilitated:
* Major riverbeds.
Major riverbeds can be used to dispose of excess fill as long the fill is not placed directlv into
drv season river flows (November to Mav). Fill shall be placed in the monsoon flood zone so
that it is removed during periods of high sediment flow without divertincg flows into river
banks or other features.
The Contractor shall seek approval from the Supervising Consultant for the use of these sites
prior to construction (see Section 5.1. 1).
The Supervising Consultant shall inspect and approve all correctly located disposal sites.
Road Maintenance and Development Project                   15
------ r? I Manac'ement A cicn Plan for Poad Uocradino



ASMEC
The Contractor shall instruct the construciion workforce or the approved locations for fill
disposal and shall strictly supervise the correct placement of fill at these locations.
Note: the Contractor must install all upzrading works in accordance with the detailed desins.
The generation of excess fill bv excavating a full cut where an earth embanlkment or retaining
wall is designed is not permitted. Works not strictlv constructed according to approved
desivns will not be certified for pavment (see Section 4.4).
The use of tractors and trailers bv the Contractor shall be encouraged to econornically and
efficiendy transpor. excess fill to disposal sites.
4.2.7    Reinstatement of Services
Ull irrigation canals. water supply lines and stand pipes. drainage ditches and walking trails
shall be maintained during upgrading or. if necessary. temporarv services shall be arranged or
the owner/user's permission for temporary cessation shall be rained.  Services shall be
progressively reinstated as soon as upgrading excavation has been completed.
Responsibilities
The Supervising Consultanm. accompanied bv the Contractor. shall inventorn all services to be
reinstated during Pre-construction Inspection 1 (see Section 5. 1. 1).
Tne Contractor shall liaise and reach agareement with affected landowners and local people
re-ardinz which services must be maintained. which services can be temporarilv cuI. the
timing of cuts and reinstatements. and the location of reinstated services. The Contractor shall
obtain written permission from affected peopie to temporarily cease anv services.
.As aureed. the Contractor shall maintain or provide temrporarv ser; ices during uro-radina. Tne
Contractor shall progressively reinstate all interriuted services immediatelv followving road
upgrading. ensuring that reinstated or repaired services operate to their previous capaciry.
The Supervising Consultant shall inspect and certify the adecuate reinstatement of all
previously inventonred services to be reinsTated.
4.2.8    Quarries and Borrow Pits
The upgrading of roads will require hard rock for surface gravelling, dry stone and gabion
retaining walls. side drains and some cross drains. This rock will primarily be sourced from
road widening excavations and river/stream floodway borrow pits.
16                          PRoad Maintenance and Deveiopment Projec:
Environmental Management Action Plan for Road Upgrading



~SMEC
Responsibilities
DOR shall obtain all necessaryv perrmits to quarry prior to quarrying (see Section 4.1.2).
The Contractor shall locate and peg out the full extent of proposed extraction areas prior to the
use of a quarry or borrow pit, othe. than an approved road formation excavation site. The
Contractor shall locate all quarries and borrow pits in accordance with the following criteria:
4 Restricted to small areas;
*  Preferablv located at existing quarry sites;
Preferablv located on sites without anv tree cover;
4  Located at least 60 m from anv dwelling;
4 Located at least 200 m from anv archaeological, religious or cultural site.
The Contractor shall estimate the quantity of material required and period of extraction. and
seek approval for use of the extraction site from. the Supervising Consultant.
The Supervising Consultant shall inspect and approve all correctly located quarry and borrow
pit sites.
The Contractor shall restrict all extraction activities to the approved site. underaldns miimal
veseration clearance to enable safe rock extraction. The Contractor shall s2rip and separately
stockpile aLl topsoil and sub-soil overivinz the rock to be extracted. Quarry and borrow pit
operations shall be restricted to the hours of 7.00- IS.00.
Where possible. the Contractor shall ensure that each quarry drains into a sedirnent trap before
runoff discharges from the site.
4.2.9    Stockpiling
The stockpiling of rock. topsoil. sub-soil and other materials wrill be required during road
upgrading. These materials shall be stockpiled to prevent darnage to local features which can
be .caused bv diverting runoff and creating sedimentation.
Stockpiled materials shall be stored on non-hazardous sites. awav from both habitation and
drainage lines to mninimise off-site sedimentation and protect off-site features.
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall locate and peg stockpile sites in accordance wxith the following criteria:
- At least 10 m away from drainage lines and out of flood level:
* On land with less than a 10° slope:
* On sites alreadv clear of trees and shrubs:
* Not above houses or other structures:
* Further than 2' m away from vegetation to be retained.
Road Maintenance and Development Project                   1 7



MS,MEC
If stockpiling is pianned on private land. the Contractor shall obtain written permission from
the landowner for use of the site. The Contractor shall seek approval from the Supervising
Consultant for the use of stockpile sites prior to commencing the related extraction operations.
The Supervisine Consultant shall inspect and approve aIl correctly located sites.
Tne stockpiling of fill material shall not be permitted during the monsoon season unless it is
appropriately covered. Where topsoil is to be stockpiled for ionrer than one month. the
stockpile shall be seeded with an appropriate cover crop.
4.2.10    Blasting
Uncontrolled blasTing can cause extensive environmental damaae. Excessive rock fracturing
on previouslv stable slopes has been common as a result of the overuse of explosives on hard
rock cuts. This has caused severe long-term stabilitv probiems (e.g. Chbinchu-Jajark-ot road -
ERR. 1998).
Blasting shall oniv be conducted where hand excavation  ,ill tk-e an excessively long time.
Controlled blastin- sha2l be used to limit t-he volume and extent of rock throw. and to reduce
the disturbance of local people.
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall seek approval for blasting from  the Supervising Consultant.  The
Suvervising Consultant shall inspect proposed blasting sites and approve where appropriate.
T1he Contractor shall restrict all blasting to the hours of 9.00.16.30.
The Supervisinc Consultant shall inspect blastin- operations at least three times during the
course of consruction and report on these activities in the Weekiy Reporrs.
4.2.11    Workforce Camps
Workforce camps are temporarilv required during the period of upgradina consruction. Only
one camp will generally be required along each 6-10 km contract lengTh of road. Camps shail
be located on low impact sites where temporary damage to local resources is minimised.
Responsibilities
Tne Contractor shall locate and peg workforce camp sites In accordance With the following
cnteria:
-  Above flood level and at least 10 m from anv drainage line:
a Away from potential landslide areas:
* P.eferablv on degraded land of low production value:
e  On cleared land requinrng no or minor vegetation clearance:
Not imrediately upslope of local drinking water off-takes:
13S                        Road Maintenance and Development Project
Environmental Management Action Plan for Road UDoradinc



*SMEC
*  A max=imu  of one camp site per 6 km length of upgrading road.
The Contractor shall seek approval for the use of the camp site from the Supervising
Consultant. The Supervising Consultant shall inspect and approve all correctlv located camp
sites.
The Contractor shall ensure that proper drinking water. sewerage and waste disposal facilities
are supplied and maintained. In water deficient areas. the Contractor shall provide drinking
water from outside the area. Solid waste generated at the camp shall be recvcled or disposed of
as directed bv the Supervising Consultant. -Appropriate facilities shall be provided for women.
where thev are employed under contract.
4.2.12    Workforce Management
A principal of the RMvID Project is the employment of local people. Despite this. workers will
generallv live in temporarv workforce camps in close proximity to the roadworks and
numerous local communities.
Workers shall act in a responsible manner durina and after working hours. respecting the
rihts. proper, and practices of local people.
Workers shall not undertake prohibited activities (i.e. -wildlife huntinz and forest harvesting.
including tree fellina and the collection of forest products).
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall liase with affected cornmunities regarding proposed upgrading activities.
The Contractor shall ensure that workers act in a responsible manner toward local people and
do not harvest or take personal resources.
The Contractor shall ensure that workers do not fell or cut trees or other vegetation for
fuelwood or anv other purpose. The Contractor shall ensure that construction workers do not
hunt. trap or trade in wildlife.
The Contractor shall ensure that no wood is burnt bv anv workers on or off site by providinc
kerosene to workers for all cooking needs.
Working hours shall not extend outside the hours of 7.00-18.00 to ensure that local people are
not unduil disturbed.
The incidence of child labour shall be monitored in consultation with local communities and
officials to prevent expioitation.
Road Maintenance and Development PrDject                i 9



ewSMEC
4.2.13    Air and Noise Pollution
Dust generation will cause air contamination during road upgrading. Construction will be
primar.lv labour based. but dust is likely to be generated from mater.al crushing and handling
activities. Construction workers will be exposed to this low level of dust during the period of
construction.
Noise levels generated from  upzrading activities will geenerallv be low  due to hand
cons7ruction.
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall ensure that up.adinrg works do not generate unacceptably high levels of
dust.
T1he Contractor shall control noise pollution by resLrictine work hours to between 7.00-18.00,
and prohibiting the use of air horns on construction vehicles.
4.2.14    Hazards and Hazardous Materials
The mishandling and incorrect storage of combustible and toxic materials such as petrol.
dieselL oil and lubticants can lead to explosions. shills and leak-s which pose a safety hazard to
wvorkers and mnav cause soil and water contamination. Minimal amounts of these materials will
be used during the labour-based construction.
Responsibilities
nhe Contractor shall safelv handle and store hazardous materials in accordance with the
ollowvin requirernents.
* Hazardous materials shall be stored above flood level and at least 20 m from anv
watercourse:
-  Explosives shall be stored in strict accordance with HDG regulations;
*  Hazardous liquid substances (e.. petrol- diesel, oils) shall be stored on top of sealed plastic
sheets in a secure. flat bunded area. Bund walls shall be at least 25 cm high.
The Contractor shall seek directions from the Supervising Consultant regarding the disposal of
hazardous materials. Used lubricants and oils shaLl be coLlected and disposed of or recled
wit,hout causing pollution or a haza rd to worker safetv. Spills of hazardous materials within or
outside bunded storaae areas shall be cleaned up immediately. Contaminated and torn or wom
piastic sheets shall be disposed of appropriately.
The Contractor shall suppress fires on or adjacent to construction or ancillarv sites.
2                           ERoad Maintenance and Oevelopment Project
Environmental Management Action Plan for Rs-- - Upqrading



46SMEC
4.2.15    Revegetation
Bare and semi-bare earth cut and fill batters shall be revegetated with bio-engineering
measures.  Vegetation stabilises batters and other disturbed Ground surfaces by providing
ground cover to protect against raindrop impact and reduce overland runoff velocities. and
binding soil through plant root deveiopment.
Slopes prone to major slides will not be revegetated.   Rock slopes or slopes with
predominantlv rockv materials will not be revegerated.
A specialist Bio-engineering Consultant is responsible for the establishment and maintenance
of long-term bio-engineering measures.
VegeTation maintenance is essential to the success of batter. revegetation. therefore bio-
engineering maintenance will occur for a y vear period.
Responsibilities
The Supervisin- Consultant shall notify the Bio-enaineering Contractor where bio-engineering
works shall be undertaken.
The Bio-enzineerin2  Contractor shall progressivelv implement works as per the Bio-
nrgineering Plan on all cut and fill batters. This shall cornmence in the correct pianting season
as soon as the contract is awarded.
The Supervising Consultant shall regularlv monitor the effectiveness of bio-engineering
measures.
4.2.16    Ancillary Site Rehabilitation
All ancillarv sites have to be rehabilitated following their temporary use in order to stabilise
the sites. ensure that thev are non-pollutinz and return therm. to their previous condition.
Responsibilities
The Contractor shall ensure that ancillary sites (stockpile sites. quarries and borrow pits.
workforce carnps) are fully rehabilitated within I month of the final day of use. This shall
involve the removal of all structures except permanent buildings that the landowner has
requested to remain and the Supervising Consultant has permitted. All refuse. stockpiles and
other temporary features shall be removed.
The Contractor shall spread all previouslv stripped overburden and topsoil across the site. with
all topsoil spread evenlv on the surface.  The Contractor shall provide temporarv surface
drainage on sites that are prone to erosion pnror revegetation.  This drainage shall be in the
LorTm of small catch drains or earth banks located immTrediatelv above and at inter-als no areal r
than 50 m down the slope. The drains shall have 0.5-1% grade and outlet at a stable disposal
sites.
Road Maintenance and Development Project                  21



wSmRc
Where possible. the Contractor shall restict access to these sites bv placing rocks to form a
barrier to vehicle access. The Contractor shall then revegetate the site bv hand broadcasting a
cover crop and planting appropriate long-term vegetation (see Section 4.2.15).
4.3 CERTIFICATION OF COMPLETED WORKS FOR PAYMENT
The correct constrtuction of designed roadworks is most effectivelv achieved by basing contract
pavments on the acual volumes of designed works constructed, and non-payment for sub-
standard constructed works.
The Contractor is able to make considerable cost savings bv construcTinc a full cut instead of
constructing half cut and half fill with retaining -walls. Likew'ise. labour costs can be reduced
by forming batters steeper than the desisi standards or sidecastinc2 excess fill.
Responsibilities
Consuction contracts shall specify payment per unit of designed work constructed. as well as
non-pavment for sub-standard construction below the detailed design specifications.
The Supervising Consultant shall strictly certify constructed roadworks against the derailed
road desizns and the EMAP conditions.
22                         Road Maintenance and Development Project



VA'SMEC
5 SITE SUPERVISION, MONITORING AND
REPORTING
The strict supervision of road upgrading activities is required prior to. during and following
upgrading to ensure that works are constructed in accordance with the approved designs and
that environmental impacts are fullv miticated in accordance with the ENMAP. A standard
svsLem of site inspections, reporting and approvals shall be undertaken durinQ the life of the
project. as described below.
The Supervising Consuitant shall undertake the following site inspections. in conjunction with
the Contractor where specified. to assist in site planning, to oversee construction and to certifv
(where necessary) the completed works and controls for pavment.
5.1 PRE-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Two pre-construction inspections of each section of the alirment and all ancillary sites shall
be undertaken by the Supervising Consultant and Contractor.
Pre-const-ucrion Inspection 1 - the initial inspection shall involve a site review of upzrading
works and ancillarv sites along a 4.000-6.000 rn length of road. It will serve to:
Identifyi site-specific upgrading or environrmental problems:
-  Identifv services that are required to be reinstated:
- Identifv fill disposal sites:
-  Identify sources of rock for retaining wail construction:
a  ldentirv workforce camp sites: and
*  Plan the phasing of construction along the aligrnment.
During the inspection the Supervising Consultant and Contractor shall discuss and amree upon
the factors listed above. including the services that are to be reinstated and acceptable fill
disposal sites.
The Supervising Consultant shall document the type and location of all services that are to be
temporarily reconnected and reinstated by the Contractor. and provide a copy of this to the
Contractor.
Pre-construction Inspection 2 - the second inspection shall occur after the Supervising
Consultant has surveyed and pegged the crest and toe of all banks, retaining wall sites and
drains. and the Contractor has pegged all fill disposal areas and other ancillarv sites.
The Supervising Consultant shall review the sites pegged by -he Contractor and approve them
for construction where appropriate. or request the Contractor to repeg sites.
Road Maintenance and Development Project               23
Environmental Management Acion Plan for Road LJpgrding



Follow-up Inspection - any specific sites that require repegging shall be inspected by the
Supervisingz Consultant and Contractor. The Supervising Consultant shall approve these sites
or request the Contractor to re?ez as necessarv.
5.2 CONSTRUCTION PHASE
The Supervising Consultant shall undertake dail. weekly and monthlv supervision and
inspections of upgrading works during the period of construction, and monthl inspections of
ancillary sites during their period of use. as specified below.
Daily Supervision - the Supervising Consultant shall supervise the following works under
consauction each dav:
*  Vegetation clearance;
* Excavation activities:
*  Fill embankment canstruction:
Fxcess fill disposal.
If anv activities are not beinc undertak-en in accordance %ith the contract or ENLAP conditions.
the Contractor shall be verballv requested by the Supervising Consultant to rectifv the
siruation.
Weeklv Inspections - the Su-pervising Consultant shall undertake weekly inspections. in
conjunction wVith the Contractor of all the works inspected during the daily inspections as well
as the following work-s under construction:
*  Retainrin2 and breast wall construction:
*  Drains construction:
*  ReinsTatement of services:
*  Quarries and borrow pits.
If any activities are not being undertaken in accordance w%ith the Contract or EvLAP conditions.
the Supervising Consultant shall document these activities and specifv corrective measures in
the Weeklv Report. The Supervising Consultant shall provide a copy of the Weeklv Report to
the Contractor within 2 davs of the inspection for action.
All drainaae works and drain outlet areas will be inspected after each major storn event.
.Monthly Inspections - the Sunervisina Consultant shall undertake a monthlv inspection of all
ancillary sites in use over the preceding month. as well as anv ancillarv site activities currently
in proeress. at the end of each month in conjunction vith the Contractor.
2,1                         Road Maintenance and Development Project
Environmental Management Acton Plan for Road Upgrading



@SMEC
If anv activities are not being undertaken in accordance with the contract or EMAP conditions,
the Supervising Consultant shall document these activities and specifv corrective measures in
the AfonrhZy Reporr. The Supervising Consultant shall provide a copy of the A'fonrthv Reporr to
the Contractor within 2 davs of the inspection for action.
Pre-monsoon Inspection - the Supervising Consultant shall undertake a pre-monsoon
inspection of drain upgrading sites in conjunction with the Contractor to review monsoon
drainage controls. This shall be undertaken between 15J-25 Mlav.
The Supervising Consultant shall specifv the locations and tvpes of additional monsoon
drainage controls that are required. The ContracTor shall install these drainage controls bv S
June for review bv the Supervising Consultant in the followincg Weeklv Inspection.
5.3 POST-CONSTRUCTION PHASE
Certification Inspection - the Supervising Consultant shall undertake a post-construction
certification inspection of each completed section of road and each rehabilitated ancillarv site.
Certilfication shall be based upon the contract conditions and EvLAP conditions (see Section
4.x).
5.4 OPERATIONAL PHASE
The environmental monitoring of roads during the road operation phase shall concentrate on
the maj,or identified potential impacts of the roads. including slope stabilirt. drainage and
sedimentation.
The DOR Geo-environineni Unit shall under.tae a 6-monthlv inspection of each road
formation and related features over the initial vear following the comDietion of unCradinz. hre
insDection will include a visual assessment of:
Road surface condition:
* Road batters - cut and fill stability: bio-engineering success:
Retaining walls:
* Drains and draina_e lines - drain stability: drainage line erosion:
*  Local houses and land - damaae from landslides and sedimentation.
The relevant performance indicators are:
*  Road surface          - no ruts greater thar. 100 mm deep.
*  Road batters          - no landslides. except on naturallv highly unstable slopes;
- no significant rill or sheet erosion on batters:
- pianted vegetation survival greater than 90% after one vear.
*  Retainin= walls       - no damage to walls from landslides or traffic,
- no significant wall movemenrtslumpage.
Road Maintenance and Development Project              25



OSMEC
*  Drains                  - drainage along the road surface no greater than 200 m,
- side drains intact:
- no si-c?ificant gullv erosion/underminiing at drain outlets;
- pipe culverts in place.
*  Local houses and land    - no falling rock or landslide damage to houses:
- no major landslide or sediment deposits downslope of road.
A standard report covering the above features shall be completed for each road by the Geo-
environment UInit following each inspection. Tnis report shall be submitted to the relevant
distict DOR Supervisor and the relevant DOR section in Kathmandu withtin two weeks of the
inspection.
Environmental features such as noise, air and wate; qualiry will not be monitored as thev are
onlv likely to be minor impacts.
25                           Road Maintenance and Development Project
Environmental Management Acfion Plan for Road Upgrading



SIMEC
6 RECORDS, AUDITS AND CORRECTIVE ACTION
6.1 EMAP RECORDS
In order to demonstrate compliance with the EMAP, the Contractor shall keep records
regarding environmental manaaement issues at the site. Records must be kent for the site with
a list of each category which has been checked and monitored.
The Contractors' records shall include:
.l1 necessarv permits. including private landowners' permission for activities on their land:
* Proof of Contractor Field Supervisor trainng;
*  All written instructions and.reports provided bv the Supervising Consultant. including
Week.v Reporrs. MXfonth1y Reports and Audit Reports:
*  A rezister of audit non-conformances and corrective actions:
-  Correspondence.
All records shall be kept at site premises and maintained in a legible state for the full period of
construcrion. Records will be made availabie to the DOR Project Mvanager and the SuDervising
Consultant upon demand.
The Contractor must immediately report all environmental hazards or incidences to the
Supervising Consultant. such as damna2e to strucrures or land. construction activities that have
occurred outside approved sites. spills of hazardous materials. forest or grassiand fires or other
incidents which are likely to cause pollution. other detrimental environmental effects or loss or
damage to private resources.
6.2 SITE AUDITS
A, full compliance audit of the Contractor's operations and all upgradine and ancillar,v sites
shall be conducted by the Supervising Consultant (Auditor) once everv 3 months.
Environmental compliance -will be audited azainst the conditions of the contract and the
EMIAP. based on the phase of road upgrading.
The audit shall be conducted by the Supervising Consultant in conjunction with the DOR
Project Manager, and shall be attended bv the Contractor.
The audit will involve a review of all sites currently in use or used since the previous audit. any
upgrading and reiated activities in prom-ess and the site records. An .4udir Report describing
the results of each audit shall be prepared by the Supervising Consultant and submitted to the
Contractor within 2 davs of the completion of the audit. Non-conformances will be descr'ibed
and corrective action/s will be recommended with an identified date for completion.
Road Maintenance and Development Prolect             27



_SMEC
6.3 CORRECTIVE ACTION
The Contractor shall implement the corrective action/s recommended bv the Supervising
Consultant in the time specified. The Contractor shall then notifv the Supervising Consultant
of the completion of the corrective action/s.
The Supervising Consultant shall varifv the satisfactory implementation of corrective actions
durinc the following Weeklv Inspection and sign off on the non-conformance/s if satisfactorilv
rectified, or make a further request is unsatisfactor.
6.4 FINAL AUDIT SUMMARY
The Supervising Consultant shall prepare an Audir Summary Report at the completion of the
Contractor's contract. The report will provide a summary of the type and number of non-
conformances found during the course of the contract, the type of corrective actions
recotnmended and undertaken and the Contractor's diligence and response time to corrective
actions.
The report shall be used to assess the effectiveness of contract conditions -nd the ENLAP. and
identirfy areas where these documents need strengthening in the future. It will also be used to
assess the performance of the Contzactor.
2P;                       <Road Uaintenance and Development Prolect
Environmental Manaqement Action Plan for Road Uoaradinq



* "6SMEC
7 REFERENCES
1. Departnent of Roads (DOR), 1994. Classification and Design Standards for Feeder
Roads (Second Revision). Ministry of Works and Transport. HMGN.
2. Department of Roads (DOR), 1995. Construcrion Guidelines for Lowv Cost Feeder Roads.
Ministrv of Works and Transport. Kathmandu. Nepal.
,. Deparunent of Roads (DOR), 1996. Bio-Engineering Injbrmarion - Rate Analvsis Vorms
(Interimi. Standard Specifications (Inrerim). Lists of Species and Supporring Information.
Geo-environreneal Ulnit. Departmnen of Roads. Ministrv of Works and Transport. HMGN.
Kathmandu. Nepal.
4. Deparmnent of Roads (DOR). 1997a. Design Standards for Feeder Roads (Third Revision)
- Deparrmenral Policv Document. H-IGN.
5. Depamnent of Roads (DOR), 1997b. Environmental Management Guidelines.  Geo-
environment Unit. Departnent of Roads. MYfinistr. of Works and Transport. HIMGN.
Kathmandu. Nepal.
6. FRR Limited. 1998. Studv of EmironmenraZ Assessment in the Neval Road Sector. HMGN
MIinistrv of' Works and Transport. Kathmandu. Nepal.
7. IUCN. 1997.  Inventorv of Heritage Sires of .;Vepai.  Henitage and Bio-diversirt
Conservation Pro=ramme.
S. ODA. 1997. Overseas Road Aore 16 - Principles of Low Cost Road Engineering in
Mountainous Regions. Transport Research Laboratory. Unired Kingdom.
Road Maintenance and Development Project              29
F-vi'mmenral Management Actfon Plan for Road Upgrading



APPENDIX 1:  RMD Project Environimenital Management Activity Table
I'liase          Eii vlronn          I tellith-ciiieni                                Action                    _t.sp_i sibility                             l'edormice 1nic) | or                   A)' M
_ __ _ _..__                       _ ___  ..._._. _c  . . __ _  _  
I're-~~-                I ii 11(noand   1111t lltiiltliiig Acquisition   * aii ii lote all llecessary land  nd nid    ldinig acqn isitioll  D) R                Acq iiisilioiis in accordiance           4.1.1
C oHS lssit e ii                                                p)roce(dil es pnioltlo it)   comm enceuu1 o' aIlny related                                      willi RAI' anid Intnilletik ei
wvoiks.                                                                                         Framework.
Provide cnpies of lan1(d aclnisilion procedlures to (lie               I)oRt                    Procedores received prior to
snlieprvising ('olsilnlaill all nd Con trIct(o                                                  coOtuStiUtoll.
6 Adhere lo tlhe land ac(Iiisitioii ptocedmIes.                          Suipervis. Ciisutill.
* Ilovi(le a list olt fteclted pilpelly ownels ho I l( e t Ie  CluViSiig   D)OR                   List receive(l.
Coitsti_____and_ ConSi) 111      Con it rac t or.
I'ertils                              * ~)Otain all liecessaly  eillilits I) iolt to Conlil ilcIIilig aily -(l)R                        No delays in wvork                       4. 1.2
trlo(dvoi ks.                                                                                   ct)ililielicelOCiltl
Plrov(lde a copy orall permiiils lto te li(troictor.                     D)OR                    Copies icceive(t.
4 AdheIc Io ill permlit lteriis 1d(1 coldl(hitiolns.                   (otn,iclaol              Conditions adlilede( lo.
* 013)haill wv illCIt j)er llissionll fiollf pi ivalt lalitlldelt es i(l  IoilIinclotl            I'elIilissioll obtlaiined,
ctll(IlIll activities noi their landl  rwi-iol (n coluinlenenilig these
actlivities, a110 1m n ovide cples lo the Supel visi g.collS11tItai t.
I baii log                           * (Jrganidise a0 Id coivlye iie Ilie  Road Cuoeisiroiliii mi(d            I)                       Woiksipol) comp)illeedc .               4. 1.3
FLnivit-miellalt Management Iraining Workshop ill    leas;     t I
Ilioitll Iprior I() c(eist(roclio.
*All cootiiactor Hiel(l Snl)ervisor/s shall attendth ilc "Rolatd          Contractor              Flketive imp)t)lemeleliloll  olt
Cuollst itcioll adl Ilivilot in icllta l MaliagemilelIt" wvoikshlo                              (lie l.MAI' Pnd RAiP.
IIId rieceive accl edilal ion teflr  cmleollcilg wvo.k
* All Snlp  vising ( o stthSatIotlt tie (I stti a Itsill mml id tI te    so pm vis. ( Co'saIt .   Stall, acci cdil;.mim.
rainin  wvorkshop be loie comiminieiici n g site (Itilies.
- PS - 1irt lkular Sp)ecificatlionl; SS - Stonard(1il  spxecific;ation; COC( - (nditlUionl ,,r * o,itr ,t



Phase             EnIvlroitniegital Khelm  ireiicolt                                          Act ion                                         liesplonlstllilty          pc rrornlao  cc  ln(iclletor          EM  A I'
Sect Ion
Pre-                      Wnrksite Suirvey, Plegginlg andl o iivya  eis   ,0    no'lcpooe     pidi    ok                                           Supervis, Coisuilt. -All wot ks conisltrclted as                     4II1.4
construclimi  Approval                            ~ ~~~~witl) a level.pged
* Jointlly inspect thec smrveyedi %vo ks.                                      Supcrvis. Coisuilt.
andt CoWntrctor
91I ocale, peg; outi andt seek appr oval fl iu  ithe Stipcivising              Contractor
Consultant for each ancil lay site prior to thec
cMout t clicen t It ofre-lated  ic livi ties.
' Inspect and ilpprove, il'coliect, all peggcd ancillary sites.                Suiper vis. Conisilt.
I Continue to silrVey and1( pet outl at least 2,000)t in offoposed    Super-vis. (Coostilt
Conts (ruittion ii        Vcgetatiott Clearance                     9at ttmi              iilceiii  fceiiigwlinii   proe                             olractor                All c leatitiig restricited to             4.2.1
t Clea I  inat   nitIte esteittof  leaing'viII in  heappo vilpegged areas. No~ markecd
wvorksite areats with I' pgs ot 25 mi i ier ivails or less. I (keiltiCy                                trces clear-ed.
and gnat ik ind(ividuaiil trees I'M  retentlioni withio tlie ttiuiie(i
extenti olekaritig. Seek approval fotr cleatriiig fiol i the
Stipei visitig Consultant at least I week prit tor it)y
pi t1pised c learitig.
*. Inset ~ e   aid approve all correctly located at ti pegged                  Cant rae tot              Clear ing pC r ittit s/plertiii 55i ott
cet earn tg sites. V eget ation tc lemanlcC in (noye tnt tici It or                                    ohbtainied,
Commitunity F~orests shaill onliy he undi(ertaken onice a pettttit
lto cleiiat ldti FOO peritiss onl has beeti obtautlel
* Itisti uc  all constructliont workers to restr ict clear ing it) the         Coitntrlctor,
Miat kedi atreas and tiot to harivest atty lotrest pi oditicts tor
personal cotistittuptioti or. Sale.
* litsmre tIhat all clearitig is midet takent hy htatnd wtithin thc            Cotitraictor              Only hatnd ucldriing
extti itt olapproved sites ituily ntttd witlitn I week prio  to th liiIttket
associated ittgrad it ig wotlk-S.
* Stockpile clearied sil-irlt) tliage wvliere possible withilli the            Cotitractor
RO W Colr later Ilse ats at brtltO layer.
I Protect retuitittiiig vcgetalioti withtin tlie r-oad( IOW  atid( at         Colilcr
anc.                   . .aIy_s___s_



l'lnisse              l4.iiviroinanental zflllc        eiticnteActione                                                                                                I|espollsibility               IPelt-ioriiianic  ht-liccialor            F    .M  AP'
__ _ .___ ___  ._ _   .._                                                                                                                                                                                     _   .............. _,_______________ _____... .................__  Sc~c  Iion}
Si(Ustrlctiot                 I)rainage                                      * SuIrvey and pleg (desigted  (Iraiigae %voiks prior toi                                      Suipervis. Consult.    Pegged  sites.                                              4.2.4
.coust roulion.  vOut let di ainis nilto existinig stable drainl;ge
lilies, Ut whele  lliis is i)cot poss ible, COnSuIt with allioinilg
dlo)vnslope  bIl(lowilers onl llitillially acce)plable locationls ror
(drail otlllels.
* J.ointly  iisp)ec  Itie pegged draiinage works.                                            Slipervis. Coisiult.    I)isctissioln  of pegge(  wvork.
aild( ('(oIll-lcol.
* Cot isrtric  all designed drainage works prior to, dtiurin,g or                            Con li iiictor
.intiiedilatc  y Folilowinlg toad e xciaaition ill orlder to mililitise
tlie elrosiOnI hazaid.
*  I nspect a1ll toond    otoks a ld an 1cillary sites  oro  drainlage an (d                      C t litl;toi              No  major ci osdlor ind
erosioll Iiibleliis ifllct etChll  illijor stol ill eveill (illt              Iie                            .liSdWiiYS itoci drains caug sing
pelrio(ol n' iiidgradiig.  Reptair all llacdl drains and I11            Ax  other                                        t1111Cerllitfing, dhraintage
slppropli alc lactioll OS tlil ected                 Slievrrsiove                                                                     t)i o  damiage (o
Con))il)iliiie                             byth    iidCvSngactjctil bealcires.
.~~~~~~~_._ .__ .___ _  tlsllzl___,__,__,____.___  o s_     .........................    ll;iitl  aIc;lts.___
Topsoil Savintg  and Ite-lise                   * S;ave all available topsoil tlolil M( )W   sites alntl re-ise it oii                        Cotlractorl                    All available topsoil saved and                    4.2.5
col;mp leted road  lont Illion b,attelrs approved  by tlie                                                                stockpilled away frons drainage
.Sipervisi ug CotlliasnIt ant.                                                                                            lilies,
* Stril) alnd stockpile lopsoil fioti all aticillilly sites 1thal ale to                     Conitrctor
be dhistult bed.
* Keel) slockliled  topsoil seprllate  lioll sil1t-soil malerial.                            Coitiricior
* Sov a cover crop ott etachi tpipsoiled balter wililiil 2 days of                           (Coliltracior                  Covel c lol sownv   oil all
___________   -_________      __________.________________       .     i1  I't"ii!~_____________                            __________                       _________-____________          to lopso ilC d   ballers.



I'lIiise             il virol,i,Ic;Ilal Ict iea'cnItem      i                                      Aciloni                                            Rlespollsibili(y              I crofriialicc linilcalor               EPIAIA
Sect ion
Cozistructic(ill            Rctaiiiiing Wall Coiisticlitiii            * Stirvcy anld peg olitl Iclailling wvall sics prl ior lo anxy road                  Supervis. Colsuill.    All ieaining walls MensUAMice(                     4.2.2
cxcava. i nt                                                                                                 as pegged.
* Joititly inspect ilic peggedi lip)g dlding wvol ks.                               Suplcvis. Consiltl I.)iscossi ll of pcgged wol
aiin   . Contractor
p Plogiessivye ly con itriic  reailling wvalIls 1prior to commelllc ucing    (Cont raictor                      No cnl hadid  excava lionl  prl, i(Ir
each associaled cit lbalik. excavation. 0nl) CoiliniOcOce cul                                                lo associaledl relainiog wail
ClelIlh.ikiilli( excCvatlliolt IIice tlic SlIpervisisi;g Coiillialaiu                                       ConI I5cti lio.
IIhas celiflied (lie associated reti iin g wall.
q Ilacklill retal;inii[g walls il layets nlit dleceler- Illal  I O51) n1111,        C'(IIc\olr                  BlacWlill seleicillt less than
comlIpactillt; each lilyci withi a I icehalilical cI ompaclor or I 00  nns afler one yc ear.
_______                 --    ~~~hand heldJalanpr.,
Ix avlliuli i     and  lnhalnkilieln          Suil Vey and( peg Ilic crest of all cntl hallCr-5 and loc C   fall                Siipervis. ConIsIIII.   All hallcis Consinlicled as                      4.2.3
Consiltlicdiou                                CalIlI emball kt-L'IS limI lio any tel cicatl excavatliall.                                                  pe)Cgged.
mlitI ly inspect ilic ltepegg( cdle ilkwzlcntls.                                   Supcrvii. Consult.   I)iscussioln of legged wol 1k.
alid Contractor
tenlclhi tile natural sin l face hIuiiiild iol ofi ealtll Cllihillkuilcllts       Collnlaclor                 Fau tlh han ll inid611at ionI nub
- prior 14) litliiig lo c ah Ic Ilic key iig ill a;iii cotpacilt imi  ot'                                     hellche(   l iobr lo liilillg.
C ill I I.
* Fill ilu laycl-s no deeper iita 15() mll 11and comlpact ciacl                   (Coiitractor                Sc tiilenicit lcss ilati 100 inns
la yet- Milil a meiccihaniical comiplalct tiior of  ailld lhel( Itan lper                                     illtle nile year.
__ _ ___ _  ____   _____ -_________ -    heFiepjlyig  heule...ly..  ______,_ ...................._ _________ . _ ______ __.___                                                                 _._______



l'tiase                Enivir)nimieiui ail                                                                           Actloii                                                      ltesl)il biillty                   Pcrrtorma ce  lutlicator                         ENIAP
. _ _ __ . ~ _ ____                                         __ __ _ ._____.        _   __________  __________. _                             _Se     ti
(CtIIs lt II et io II            Fill Disposal                                       *  Identil'y, peg  antd  seek approval lr-omii iltc Sopervising                                     Conit-actor                      I'ill disposal al approved  siles                      4.2.6
Co iltiltllw   lor permniissibile  fi71   isl)ldsposl,locIattolls.                                                                only.
'  Inspect a1ntl approve all correctly  localtd till dislisal                                       Slipervis. Collskilt.
locatlions.
I hisiiet tlie colistll-ticlioll  voriklo rce oil ile al)proved  fill                               CNionlrfclor
dlisposal locatilolls aid  st lictly  sliperl vis   fithe  le t-IeCI
______                 lacellm il lf) fill at tlihse sites. _,___                                     _         _
Rt`illsiallelelll of SIivices                      *   Invenlltory  ali services it) he  reijislaled.                                                   Snpervis. Conisill.             Agreet entIt on  seivic;es lo be                        1.2.7
itll(l Conlraclor               reinstated.
*  I.oc;tIe andt  teach  agleclileile  wit I alfTedmi huln                      nieuiIs ant(d Colitractm
locll peoplie  legarding  services  to  be illailltalillel,                                                                      No comiiplaiilts receivedl li-o
lemporarily  ctit anid  reitistated, inclidillg  Ilte   iilililig  andf                                                           ailecteti  people.
localioll t)l'CII ells 1111 a   eiiisfalemttellls.  Olitaill writlell
pelillissitill litoll  a IThtcled  laiidowiiers / locill p)etlelI
regaii-tli og the lelln tiporary cessalioll ol'services.
*  Maillttill ol  priovidle  templlolrrlly  services (tlilii g conslutrctioll,    Colllactlor
itlicliltiilg   elilnpolalry  Wilter slIpp lies.                                                                                  Ftil I lolctiollil g ofl  ellmpoicily
Ser ViceS.
*  Progressively  reillslale tl repair u ir liiiIlterl-ti)ledl scrvices lo                          ('CoWtlraclor
lieii  l    Vlt Oll s capacity.
*  Insllpect aiid CCtiil'y ilfe adequiate reinst at ltlemn   of'setvices.                           Supervis. ('ol siil.    P'uill fint)cliol illg olf reinistale(d
waler slipp ly  lines, canals aniid
_.__  ._._ .____________________ _      _________________  ______________    ___________________  trails.                                     __   ______________._



l I'ticisEtiviromim ciital  cticqilrcgiveii(                                                           Ac ._ _                                              ltA o)Itespulsibiilily        p1csronini  CC I lgidicalor               SccIio
Ct)lisJIlitirZ} (Quallies  all1(l Bollowv l'its                                                                         ....( IMalr.ixraclioll moly wsilhin} pgged ......  .
* I.o cate amd peg (tUarrics adi lboirow  pils, estimuatc ille                                                     Sitat2
(I alil)it  y of mcaterial rqc(llil (i rc    o(l lc pci p (liod (tcxiraclioll,
and scck approval from  Ilic Scipcivisiog Cu csi  aitatl.
* Inspcct arld approve all col rccii) lc a"tccl (qtlillIC   ;1a11(1 (dCollactor
l)0IicixV p)its.
(wContiaclor                'Igccs withlil cxilaclioll sitc
* IestIrict all cx(riactiOI  aCetV;i{CS to appliVC(d sites,                                                         ictiled NhIeCIC agiCcd.
IIiiIeI(ickil1g minimial cleiii ing to CIIable sale lOck CXtIacti;OI.
* Sti ip and sepIaratCely stockpil  all tp ;       soil mI ;11l SIIbI-soIl             ConitacIor
ovcrlyiI ig II I( rock toI hI ecxitiacted.                                             Itt
* Rtestliict  ll operatiolls lo tIle lioolis of 7.)0- 1 8.01
*  .iiscia-c that cach cpciuI y or  .l oioc       l diai.ls ito a sediiiueo            (IOICII;iitIcOr              No sC(lijiiciC  dIposited
*   e    iiole   I (IIIis d 0sclia)i''d olV 1ie site.                                                      dowslo          oVi i ;1f extract ion SMies.
_  _.    _-----------.--- -- --- ---.--   1 !}lc   !     III  S(   CIlCI° 1  ----.-                    ...-...............-..-.. -....   _   _._-_ _._    _
SluckpIl;ing                                                                                                    . . tCoitIractor                                  Stockpiling atl peged sites                     4,2.9
oiiscllaii  loig ilhc IsC o'sltockpile siles.
.    * Ohlain wi   ittCli pel' Iiissioll &  u ;ioii l(a ( ileo  s for si ockliIi iig   Cocillitrac(or               Periissicoin o(il a illcel
(Ii ilicir land.
.  luisjcec I ai id a I il i o vc all uii ccl ly bented sic cc k    Ic sit s           Sipctivis. Cuiisti kl.   SlockPiiies local ed a way fim
oinspct iiid a)piov   all  oiicll), ocatcl s(ckpil  silc-                             (hauliage liues.
*Sced topsoil Stockpi les wjilIi a coVer (r 10) p\liIciC IcY t i c  I                  ( COitioacItcr
be     h   ieiciuiid Ia,  mioe  thauI  onle eunouthl. 
ils  I Ig                                                                                                                         Coitiractcor                All siles cxcav,itcd by) hlaiid                1.2.11
*i  Seek apprcoval lor blastincg li oil tic Supci vising Coniscultcii (.                                            w'iherc plcactical.
*  lispect aind allplove hlastiig wvilcie sigcilitcallt hard lnck                      Stilicuvis. Couscul.
occuri s.
ii last e m/(.oit actom
* Resitict all blastiug Ici Ilic lioius 01 9.00)- 16.30.
* lIspecC  blasting opICIatuioIS at least I 1ci  cc limCes (cIII icig IIc              Supei vis. Cousoill.    No maljoi( lock fIacitring of
cc._ci_se of coislutici .ii.                                                                                   Itic Icomilliig hill slope.



§'ll;le   t' I V§I sII IIIII @; @ I{C{II ;ICIIILs                        Act i(iii                                         Rtespolllsibi lily              1)lr,  ,,cIliitiiato)l-                   treM*AI
. _.__ _____                                 __ _ _ .__ .____ ...... .     ... . __ ___  .  _Secilo
Co ts\elstue  litt        VW irkioMce Cumlilis                         * Lca             a        e     p          o   [Ile      I.Su  peviing           Cont racoi rI               No wor40k   rce caLi p acliviities              4.2.1 1
Cons iiumtatit for vork i ;1e cat np sites. -cits ide pegged sites.
* IISpeCtIt Iidljappr I   aVI dli LOll ti.tctly lo tafeul camtop sites.           Silirci-vis. Coiisill.   No compilatiilit iSeeci ved froi
* ProvtidI anIdt IItlai lai I pioper (11drIL i  tg watet", SCeweraLge anld      Contratco)reiLi
waste di5isptosfll lciiliies  t te L;cCampS.
4 Recycle or1 dispos tel sitlidi waste aIS uliicete(l by tlhe
Woii  Corctval l.ot.stiltait                                                    Contrac.o1
\Vto1k Fore  M fyi un tage  ill eL itt           liise wvit il lIltecletl colilli illit is regatrd inig pioposedl road1l                                                                                  4.2.12
Cons(roclioll.                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Colit  et or
6 I "lstIre wol l:ers  ICI in a responisib)le laniilnel to local people I         Contract or                  No hai veslit ig ol tfoiest producits
antI tdo iiol 0  vesl oir lake p)ersonaul I esot i-ces, lorest                                            o1 wil(llil e by tlhe wokllforce.
ptroilucs of- wildlile.
* I lsile thlalt itt) wood is htilrlit by aily c(liistilietiill wvolL.ls           Coklersalo
o0 )0 ool site.
* IltIoviue LeroseIe FIor all worlt,oLc  cookioig  Ctol1ra (') lol;lteto
.-.-.~~ ' Hestrici sv.tttt  htoill;lis 1,, bvlxetwe     7.11)-I l   l(U).                              ('otBitlclt ol... ..___.
Air .1mn   Noise  l'olilittini            *       I    tha tIli  cottstrittiott woilkS  io tiot geicr-atie                  (Coilltactor                 L ow  levels of dust gelterated.                 4.2.13
tllutcceptahly lhiglh levels  it' (Idst.
* Irobibil Ilte uise ol'air linrits on1  contisictliot  vehicles il                (Contractor
I lazards and I lalardollts                * Saltly handle   id stoir leiatal-doIIs Illaterils.                               ContIracltor                Separate Storage of hlatardous                   4.2.14
Malerials                                                                                                                                                 Iniia:te ials.
6 Seek, directmiolls fis lil thle suipervisil hg (Consultant a     lor tile        Cotilrt cm or
dIisl)postl 01 Iaiardous iIet l ieils.
* I'rovi(le dlisposal directlios   to lte ('ontracztoir when                      Stipeivis. Consult.
(leItltestedl.
. ('lean  1ti) spills ot lh;iarulolils t1altclhiils imitiiedialtely.
* Slipless It'res oil   11 0 radijacellt to Constiocltioil or ancillary           (Cotitr aIctor
sites.                                                            ___ ._____._                                                                _________



Elviron ineilal JslccRilicic                                                  Ad io!A                                           llcstloIisilil'                 l etttili-ii icc  oid(icaifr              Seci
Secti
Reevegc alipl               o                 l'  ogiessively sow  all d is)iiihcd colisl ic; ioll alld ancillaly            col.01   aclor              All com clet   batlers So%vil Wi ill a            4.3
sile sm51 laces vill a CoVCI c 10l) 10 ix il0lle dlim ely follo wing                                       coVcr CI °ll.
(lic couyIletio(i aod ccrilifiatijim  (f caci baller or flihal uisc
of cacti aiucilliry silc.
* P'rogicssivcly  imuuplemien  lio-ciigiriccriuig woiks.                           lio-cillilccrilig          Ilio-clginicceiuig  iidleilakeui ill ilic
colilulilicileil  ill iluc collcet plauu(uuug SCaIsoIl as soonl as ilic        (Cnllra.ciun                 planting scasoll followiiug lOdl
inlitial .3.((I0 Ill of lpglalidg wlolkS lhis becenl collilptlld                                           cei litlcalioi.
1uildt ccl  liced.
* Rcguilal y illonilmo  iuc clThclivellcss of bio-cigiuucci ing                   Supervis. (ojisilt-   90%1)   planl sulrvival jaic.
iicasuli es.
--   -    -- -----s                                                    -      -. . -- . -- -~.                                                    ..    -     -- - ---
Aclliy Sitc lRfia  litation                 , Rel* abililae ancilaioy silcs   iliiUui I    i nouil  of ilucir Iiuial           Colillaclor                All aicillai  silcs iChlailiiltCd                 1.3
usc, iuicliuiliuig ltic tucuuoval of'sliuIcimes, Il'iiS(', stockpiles
aniid oilier timpolaly fca iii cs. IRevegelatc ilic sites wiltl a
.._._.   _                                       .~YL~'A~ a_id i~                   '.               .            - _ -.~...-.. ..-_ ctvcl -(1)andp- .                                          .__-.--------- ____ _____ __
()    I-arution             [.vilouuuiuuuulal Momnloring               * I Igideitlakc a 6-iloiulluily inslicctiomi tol  lic roadflo I        fiiiiiori  (6iCO-CIvirounIhtCI          No oils gu-caler thitat  100 mi                    s
agild Ietalcd eCitiluICs liver tIeIC imilial tIVi ycOls toiwilig  Itie        Illi., D) )lW                dlvpl); 111) l;iidstides C.u jt  1)1pil
complio     of ioiitil wmoks. ('Complcie  ill insp)cclion) ielioil                                        llibllually highly mUslablC slopms:
am,  suitnuui  to 1,,    l(Rt ()ishl ici and ; K.1 lnulimmid) wvilhii  lvwo                                lio sigillicantl i ill to  shicel Closiol
.vecks oilltc isispeclioml.                                                                                0ui h;allci ; plallicil vcgclatoli j
suit vivatl girealer 1anIll 90') aller
OIle ycar; i1o damage to IciaiiiiIg
walls fioun lanldslidtes or ialfic,c;
IM sigilificalil wall miovellcnl /
sloumpagc; drainagc alonig Ilic
Iooadl soirfacc  l)0 giceIcr lliall 200
1in; sidc drlaills iillacl; no
signlificalnt glilly crosioll 
onll(lemililliuig al dIraimi ouit els; p)ilC
cnlvci Is in placc; i)o ralling rock
or laildslitle (dam1age to houscs; 10
IIuajor Ilanldsli(ic or scdimuen t
-_deposits downslope orlfoad.



