Report No. PID5867
Project Name                     Nepal-Road Maintenance And Development (@#)
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Other Transportation
Project                          NPPE45052
Borrower(s)                      Kingdom Of Nepal
Implementing Agency              Department Of Roads
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                Updated October 6, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         May 1999
Projected Board Date             November 23, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
General. Road sector priorities for Government and donors during the last
decade have targeted the completion of the east-west highway, rehabilitating
and maintaining the strategic network, building farm-to-market roads in the
Terai, and building the institutional capacity to manage an expanding
network. A sector investment strategy for the road sector has been developed
during the preparation of the PIP which calls for a balanced investment in
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing assets complemented with cost-
effective and environmentally sound construction and maintenance approaches
for feeder roads.
Prioritization of Public Expenditures and Sector Revenues. The PIP for the
road sector completed in February 1997 with IDA's assistance identified
priority projects for sustainable development of the strategic and rural road
network for the period of 1997-2006. The PIP assessed resource constraints
and funding requirements, sustainability of investment projects in Nepal, and
the environmental impact and policy considerations of road investments and
maintenance. Following the completion of the PIP, it has gained acceptance
from Government, the Bank and other donor agencies, and it has now been
adopted as the guide or plan for road development activities during the next
decade. The completion of the PIP supports effective utilization of scarce
public resources. DOR has improved its capacities to prioritize and execute
maintenance, in an effort towards rationalizing public expenditures in the
sector. With respect to sector revenues, road user charges in Nepal go
directly to the Treasury but in general cover sector requirements.
Currently, the main road user revenues are fuel tax and vehicle licenisng,
taxes and duties. A modest complement to the road user revenues has been
established by a toll road fund enacted by Law in 1995. The current toll
revenues only amount to about 2-3w of maintenance requirements and HMG/N is
currently considering expanding toll collection. A more substantial approach
to capture additional revenues for the sector is being developed by the
Implementation Committee to develop a Roads Board and Fund Act, which will be
supported by the project and increase the efficiency of road sector revenues
and expenditures.
Private Sector Involvement. The Government is trying to encourage private



sector investment to develop commercial infrastructure projects. However, it
is still not envisaged that with the low level of traffic private sector
investments become a viable alternative for road construction or maintenance.
Under the RMRP private sector contractors have been encouraged to enhance
their capabilities and carry out the civil works financed by the Bank through
competitive processes. Moreover, project management assistance has been made
available to contractors through the project's internationally experienced
supervision consultants.
Coordination with Other Institutions. Substantial efforts have been required
to coordinate donor inputs into the sector and an effective donor group has
been in operation during the last 8 years. During the on-going RMRP and the
preparation of the PIP, participation and consultation were obtained from the
key financing institutions, including the Asian Development Bank (ADB), SDC,
DfID & the UNDP. The on-going RMRP is the first multi-donor co-financed road
sector project in the country and the coordination with DfID and SDC is
expected to continue. While IDA's focus would be on sectoral policies, the
civil works financed under the proposed project will affect primarily the
road network west of Kathmandu.
Other New Issues. IDA should continue to pursue the agenda of civil service
reform in the road sector as a key element of policy dialogue with HMG/N.
Good governance and combating issues of corruption need to be addressed and
promoted in Nepal. In view of the frequent changes in counterparts, HMG/N
commitments have been sought early during project preparation to ensure a
certain level of institutional strengthening and sustainability, staff
continuity for preparation and project management policies across departments
in DOR.
2. Objectives
(a) Achieve sustainable maintenance, rehabilitation and construction of
economically justifiable roads in the strategic road network within the
Priority Investment Plan framework;
(b) Improve the access to district headquarters not currently served by road,
and reduce vehicle transport costs and delays in project areas;
(c) Promote more sustainable funding and more efficient public sector
management of road maintenance;
(d) Adopt and disseminate environmentally sustainable road construction and
maintenance practices; and
(e) Generate rural-employment through adoption of labor-based technologies
and long-term employment for the additional generated economic activity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The implementation of the RMRP, which includes an important institutional
development component and a pilot labor-based component, provides the basis
on which IDA can design a natural follow-up operation in Nepal. Based on
this and other relevant project experience, the Bank will be able to assist
HMG/N in finding a balanced approach regarding investment, management and
financing which is reflected in the project design and implementation. IDA
would also provide support to Government and private sector for the road
finance reform initiative based on experience in Nepal and elsewhere.
Furthermore, IDA can provide HMG/N with valuable experience from the
preparation of similar projects in the sub-continent. Also, the Bank will
emphasize 'best practice' in road construction and management by supporting
the employment of consultants to carry out (i) appropriate supervision of
construction and maintenance works; (ii) procurement, and (iii) dispute
resolution.
-2-



4. Description
1. Policy Reform including support to setup a Roads Board, amend regulatory
framework and develop the Road Fund
2. Dry-weather feeder road construction (197 km) and upgrading to gravel
standard (253 km) including resettlement assistance, environmental
monitoring, technical assistance for design, project coordination &
construction supervision, and land acquisition
3. Rehabilitation of 160 km of strategic highway and feeder road network
4. Periodic maintenance of strategic roads (470 km)
5. Institutional strengthening and training of DOR/MOWT, third party audit of
works by CTES, pre- investment studies, socio-economic studies, office
improvements modernization and equipment
6. Project Preparation Facility
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               11.4
IBRD
IDA                      54.5
Total Project Cost       65.9
6. Implementation
The Department of Roads (DOR) will be the implementing agency. The
implementation of the project components will be programmed, coordinated and
monitored by the Foreign Cooperation Branch, Deputy Director General (DDG),
Department of Roads, as Program Coordinator fully responsible for all project
components, including, but not limited to, planning, supervising, monitoring
and evaluation, financial management reporting, procurement, and
implementation of civil works and institutional strengthening and training.
The Program Coordinator will be assisted by the Project Coordination and
Implementation Unit (PCU), including two Senior Divisional Engineers (one of
which will be designated as Procurement Engineer). DOR has already
established the PCU. During negotiations DOR agreed to appoint in the PCU an
Environmental Engineer, an Accounts Officer, an Accountant and a Social
Planner. During implementation, the PCU will be responsible for coordinating
the implementation of the various project components, and would ensure that
the institutional and training components are developed in complete
coordination with the needs of the policy and physical aspects of the
project. The physical components would be implemented as follows: (i) one
Senior Divisional Engineer at the PCU will be responsible for the
implementation of the New Road Development and Upgrading Component (NRDUC),
(ii) one Senior Divisional Engineer will be responsible for procurement and
the Rehabilitation Component, (iii) the Regional Directors under the DDG
Maintenance, will be responsible for the implementation of the periodic
maintenance component in each Region through the Divisions, and (iv) the DDG
Planning will be responsible for coordinating, implementing and monitoring
along with the Road Sector Skills Development Unit (RSSDU), Geo-environmental
Unit (GEU), MRCU and the Mechanical Training Center (MTC) the institutional
strengthening and training component of the project. Until the Nepal Roads
Board is established, DOR will finance consultant services to assist the Road
Management and Finance Reform Implementation Committee in carrying out the
activities under the policy component of the project. Afterwards, the Nepal
Roads Board will carry out the policy reform component. The DDGs for
Planning, Design and Maintenance will prepare and submit timely reporting to
- 3 -



the PCU for consolidation of periodic reports to IDA. The Project Managers
of the NRDUC and Rehabilitation Components shall coordinate with the
respective Regional Directors for the implementation of the program. The
institutional strengthening activities will be coordinated with DfID and SDC
as a follow-up of the efforts already undertaken in the completed RMRP
(including MRCU, TESU and SMD).
The PCU will have responsibility for the project's management including
engineering and procurement, maintenance, land acquisition, implementation of
resettlement and environmental action plans, institutional development plan,
financial management, planning and accounting, etc..The PCU will carry out
all procurement related decisions in accordance with the Development Credit
Agreement, and will oversee the timely and adequate implementation of
procurement activities with the assistance of the supervision consultants and
the institutional development consultants. The Procurement Engineer in the
PCU will be the focal point to assist with developing procurement capacities
of the various implementation units, supporting the training and capacity
building of the project managers on procurement matters and setting up a
Procurement Unit in DOR during the project life.
7. Sustainability
The most important factor to ensure the project's sustainability will be the
continued commitment from HMG/N to substantially increase in real terms
maintenance funding to close the gap with the networks requirements.
Furthermore, the road fund must be strengthened and made very prominent as a
tool to improve sector expenditures. Emphasis will also be made on
continuing to improve maintenance management.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Given the long standing assistance of the World Bank for the road sector in
Nepal, there are important lessons learned in particular in the areas of
public and private sector management capabilities, environmental and social
assessment, and the construction industry.
Sector Management Capabilities. Project implementation and preparation in
the past was often delayed as a result of slow government decision making
under an environment of political instability. Substantial efforts are
underway, in partnership with the SDC and DfID, as part of the ongoing RMRP
to assist the DOR to improve its road maintenance management capacity,
planning and monitoring capability, and environmental and traffic safety
practices. These efforts have been made through a series of specialized
training and studies, services of in-house technical and policy advisors, and
technical reviews and audits as part of project monitoring and evaluation.
As a result, DOR has been able to develop and improve its basic capabilities
to better manage the road capital and resources allocated to the sector.
Among others, the RMRP has supported (i) a Road Sector Skills Development
Unit (RSSDU) to address human resource constraints, (ii) a labor-based pilot
project with community-participation which was introduced for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of district roads, and has shown good results
in the development of institutional and planning capability at the district
level, and (iii) a Strengthened Maintenance Division project to improve the
capacity to plan, program and execute maintenance at the division level.
Through the preparation and adoption of the PIP, IDA also has supported the
introduction and dissemination of planning tools for government agencies
responsible for road transport. These initiatives should be further
- 4 -



supported.
Environmental Assessment. During the past 5 years substantial progress has
been made in bolstering local capacities for environmental assessment, geo-
technical and bio-engineering with the establishment of the GEU in the DOR.
This unit has generated interest among the engineers of DOR and is now an
example in the region. The unit has been successful starting to train and
deliver the message to DOR staff of the relevance and importance of
addressing environmental aspects of road sector activities early on and
throughout the project cycle. More recently DOR has prepared Environmental
Assessment Guidelines which includes an excellent presentation of simple and
practical information on environmental processes, mitigation measures and
sensitive areas. The interest of the Department in involving all of its
engineers in bio-engineering is now expanding to environmental assessment
which will certainly give the DOR a leadership role on this matters. The
checklists are now models being used in other countries.
Private Sector Involvement in Road Construction and Consulting. There are
positive achievements in the road construction and maintenance industry and
consultant services sector over the past five years: (i) local private
sector is taking a much stronger role, (ii) DOR has improved its construction
management of privately implemented works, (iii) commercialization of
government construction equipment has encouraged contractors to buy their own
equipment and improve equipment maintenance, (iv) divisions are taking
stronger decentralized role in managing minor works and contracting out even
routine maintenance, (v) roadside environmental practices have improved, and
(vi) districts have begun to develop capacity for road planning and labor-
based contracting of works. At the same time, there are some problem areas
in the road construction industry, including: (i) contractors need to manage
their work better, (ii) contractors need to treat workers fairly and
equitably, (iii) consultants need to bring more efficiency to their design
and supervision of works, (iv) HMG procurement decision-making is slow, (v)
Government delays in payments and release of funds for works lead to
inefficiencies, (vi) contractors with a unsatisfactory track record should
not be eligible for IDA financed works, and (vii) privatization of government
equipment and mechanical training programs should be accelerated.     Finally,
the Bank has also introduced changes to help encourage efficiency in the
implementation of works which will be supported under the project including:
(i) an increasing proportion of oversight for project supervision, including
procurement support and quality inspections, is being carried out from the
Field Office, (ii) the Bank is generally not accepting extensions of bid
validity beyond 60 days, and is declaring misprocurement when bids are not
awarded in this period, (iii) the Bank has encouraged Borrowers to make
careful scrutiny of the track record of firms during pre-qualification and
post-qualification. In cases where the Borrower has documented evidence of
firms having non-performance or poor performance on past contracts, the Bank
has accepted the position taken by Borrowers to disqualify firms based on
that past performance. HMG would undertake to have an annual summary of non-
performing contractors.
Moreover, and based on the experience gained from implementing road projects
in Nepal, the preparation and implementation of the proposed operation will
incorporate the following lessons: (a) environmental, social and
institutional aspects of the project will require to be comprehensively
prepared with substantial participatory approaches; (b) strengthening of
- 5 -



basic institutional capacities for effective project management need to be
prepared and implemented early in the life of the project; (c) procurement
capabilities need to be bolstered from project design, with initial contracts
based on completed designs, strict qualification criteria and awards planned
before project effectiveness; and (d) encourage efforts to have timely
availability of project sites. Furthermore, the project will continue
adopting international standards for preparation of feasibility, design,
procurement planning, environmental planning and social impact studies.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  a. Justification of EA Category: The project involves
the construction of five new roads and three roads for upgrading. Road
construction in the Middle Mountains and High Mountains of Nepal is a high
impact activity, particularly during construction and the following initial
few years. The cumulative impact of steep topography, often unstable
geology, high rainfall intensities and intensive land use leads to road
construction resulting in the destabilization of terrain, of production land
and other related significant impacts. Given these major natural limitations
to road construction, all construction impacts cannot be avoided. Therefore
the construction of new roads is dealt as EA category "A" and the upgrading
is dealt as "B".
b. Construction of new roads: involves a total of approximately 200 km i.e.,
Chameliya - Darchula, Sanfebagar - Martadi, Sanfebagar - Mangalsen, Kalikot -
Jumla, Chedagad - Jajarkot.
c. Impacts: The priority bio-physical impacts include land stability (slope
stability hazards, erosion, drainage); land loss (agriculture, forest and
other resources); ecological degradation (direct impact of alignment clearing
on forests, indirect impacts of road operation on forests, wildlife,
protected areas and other significant features). Secondary impacts include
archaeological, cultural and religious sites, air / water quality, noise /
vibration, drinking water catchments, and refuse pollution. (Detailed impacts
in EIA, IEE and EMAPs)
d. Mitigation and management measures: cover - (i) road design /formation
with a focus on minimizing excavation by equalizing cut and fill where
possible, minimizing slope disturbance, installing retaining walls on the low
side of the road where embankment crosses cultivation, exploring construction
of dry stone walls to save cost etc.; drainage, with a focus on cross road
drainage to reduce the concentration of water on the road surface, provisions
of outfall and infall cross drainage, drive-over crossbanks and excavated
causeways, lined side drains etc. (ii) road construction with a focus on
construction programs; methodologies using local labor based road
construction and maintenance; fill disposal; re-vegetation and construction
management (iii) improvement proposals for degraded land and environmental
enhancements including hill-slope reforestation, enrichment planting /
protection e.g., in Sajanigajal Forest, community forest programs e.g., in
Salanidhar and Sakar; market center planning and cash crop development
programs, stabilization / improvement of walking trails and bridges,
landslide stabilization etc.
Impacts will be avoided or mitigated through the selection of the most stable
- 6 -



alignment, sympathetic road design incorporating environmental mitigation
measures and the strict construction of the road in accordance with the
prescribed road design and environmental mitigation measures. In this
regard, a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been carried out
following Bank guidelines for EA Category A and HMG/Ns EIA guidelines. A
screening and scoping exercise was undertaken to inform stakeholders about
the proposed project, receive their comments and identify priority
environmental issues for assessment. (Scoping is required by HMGNs
Environment Protection Regulations 2054 and constitutes good practice in EIAs
to help focus on priority environmental issues). The output of the EIA
includes an Environment Management Action Plan (EMAP).
e. Upgrading of roads: involves a total of approximately 250 km of roads
i.e., Surkhet - Kalikot, Dharapani - Chhedagadi, Gorusinge - Sandhikharka.
f. Impacts: The potential impacts are related to the proposed road upgrading
works which include standard works i.e., road surface reformation,
gravelling, side drain construction, as well as site specific works to
stabilize embankments, adequately drain the road and bring the existing
formation up to the required design standards. Other significant upgrading
works are likely to include road widening at places, slope stabilization
i.e., excavation and filling, retaining wall and breast wall construction and
re-vegetation, the installation of additional cross drainage structures, and
improvements to road geometry. These works will have site-specific
environmental impacts and will be mitigated on the same principles as the
EIA. An EMAP has been prepared as part of the IEE detailing the
implementation of mitigation measures.
g. Initial Environment Examination / Environmental Analysis: An IEE has been
prepared by HMGN for upgrading and rehabilitation of selected national
highways and feeder roads. The 3 roads proposed (Surkhet - Kalikot, Dharapani
- Chhedagad, Gorusinge - Sandhikharka, a total of approximately 250 km) for
upgrading, already exist at a very low earth standard. The proposal is to
upgrade, these to fair weather gravel standards, which would prevent further
environment degradation and help reduce the need for frequent emergency
maintenance and better accessibility (roads located in the poorest regions of
the country). The IEE and EMAP prepared address these impacts in terms of
mitigating adverse and enhancing positive impacts. This is essentially a
limited EA and follows HMGNs guidelines which require an IEE for "upgrading
rehabilitation and reconstruction of national highways and feeder roads". As
per the Bank, these are categorized as EA Category B and require a limited
Environmental Analysis. The IEE prepared satisfies both requirements.
Similar to EIA, IEE Scoping was also undertaken and a workshop was held in
Kathmandu to provide a forum for interested groups to identify environmental
issues. The EMAP as part of the IEE will follow the same format as that in
the EIA. The IEE assesses the potential impacts that are likely to result
from the construction activities of the selected upgrading roads. The
proposed road upgrading works include standard works i.e., road surface
reformation, gravelling, side drain construction, as well as site specific
works to stabilize embankments, adequately drain the road and bring the
existing formation up to the required design standards.
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
-7-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202)458 5454
Fax:   (202) 522 1500
Task Team Leader
Juan Gaviria
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5796
Fax: 202-522-2418
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 8, 1999.
- 8 -



