Page  1
Headquarters: 1818, H Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20433, U.S.A. 
 
The World Bank
 
Nepal Country Office 
Facsimile: 225112 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Lal Durbar 
Telex: 2228 INDEVA NP 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
Yak & Yeti Hotel Complex 
Telephone: 226792, 439571 
 
Kathmandu, Nepal 
Cable Address: 
INTBAFRAD 
 
KATHMANDU 
 
Postal Address: 
P.O.Box 798 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
April 5,2004
 
Mr. Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
Secretary 
Ministry of Finance 
His Majesty’s Government of Nepal 
Kathmandu 
 
Re:  NEPAL:  Credit No. 3293-NEP 
(Road Maintenance and Development Project) 
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Dear  Mr. Acharya: 
 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement relating to the Road Maintenance and 
Development Project (the “Project”) between the Kingdom of Nepal (the “Borrower”) and the 
International Development Association (the “Association”) dated December 22, 1999 (the 
“Credit Agreement”), including any amendments made from time to time. We also refer to the 
Ministry of Finance letter dated February 25, 2004 and the understanding reached between the 
Borrower and the Association to: (i) extend the Closing Date; (ii) amend the Project objectives; 
and (iii) restructure the Project components, of the Credit Agreement to address the 
implementation obstacles affecting the Project areas.  
 
Accordingly, we are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Association 
hereby agrees to amend the Credit Agreement, as follows: 
 
1. 
The Closing Date in Section 2.03 of Article II of the Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.” 
 
2. 
In Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) to the Credit Agreement: 
 
(a) 
The Project objectives in the first paragraph of Schedule 2 shall be changed to 
read as follows:  
 
“The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the provision of a sustainable 
and efficient road service on the strategic road network.” 
 
(b) Part  A shall have the following additional paragraph: 
 
“provision of technical advisory services to the Road Board for carrying out of 
beneficiaries surveys” 
 
Page  2
Mr. Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
-2- 
Credit No. 3293-NEP 
 
(c) Part B.1 shall read as follows:  
 
“Part B
:
Road Construction and Upgrading
1. Carrying out of: (i) construction work of about 50  km of new dry-
weather feeder roads and 
strategic road network; (ii) 
upgrading work of about  
154 km of existing dry-weather feeder roads to gravel road standard.” 
 
(d) 
Part C.1, shall read as follows:  
 
“Part C
:
Road Rehabilitation
1. Carrying out of: (i) rehabilitation work to about 258 km of the 
strategic highway and feeder road network; (ii) upgrading work to about 125 km 
of feeder roads to bituminous standard; (iii) provide bituminous seal to about 
141 km of rehabilitated gravel roads;” 
 
(e) Part D shall read as follows: 
 
“Part D
:
Road Maintenance
1.  Implementing periodic maintenance of about 676 km of the strategic 
highway and feeder road network and performance based maintenance 
of about 134 km of strategic highway. 
 
2. 
Implementing routine and regular maintenance of strategic highway and 
feeder road network, as well as necessary emergency maintenance.” 
 
(f) 
The following components shall be added as Parts E and F and the previous  
Part E shall be re-lettered to read as Part G: 
 
“Part E
:
Emergency Road Repair
Rehabilitating about 36 km of emergency strategic road network 
damaged due to flooding. 
 
Part F
:
Community Road Works
Constructing 45 km of feeder road using community based organizations.” 
 
3. 
All the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement that have not been amended hereby 
shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. 
 
Page  3
Mr. Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
-3- 
Credit No. 3293-NEP 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the amendment set out above by having an authorized 
representative of the Borrower sign the form of confirmation set forth herein below, and returning 
one fully executed original of this amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience and 
retaining one original for your records 
 
Sincerely, 
 
/s/ Deborah Bateman
Deborah Bateman 
Acting Country Director for Nepal 
South Asia Region 
 
Confirmed and Agreed  
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
 
By /s/ Bhanu Prasad Acharya
Name: Bhanu Prasad Acharya
Title: Secretary
Date: April 15, 2004
Page  4
Mr. Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
-4- 
Credit No. 3293-NEP 
 
