 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14845

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/30/2015

               Country: Ghana
             Project ID: P093610                                                   Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Eghana                       Project Costs (US$M):                     42.00           102.20

  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      40.00               85.73
      Sector Board:        Global                     Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Information/Communi
                           cations Technology
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :
                                                               Closing Date:
          Sector(s):       General public administration sector (54%); Central government administration (18%);
                           General information and communications sector (11%); General industry and trade sector
                           (9%); Vocational training (8%)
         Theme(s):         Technology diffusion (25%); Other accountability/anti-corruption (25%); Other Private Sector
                           Development (24%); Regulation and competition policy (13%); Trade facilitation and market
                           access (13%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                George T. K. Pitman    Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objectives according to the Loan Agreement (Schedule 1, page 6) and the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD, page 8) are:

"To assist the Recipient in generating growth and employment by leveraging Information and Communication
Technologies (ICT) and Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) to: (i) develop the Information Technology Enabled
Services industry : and (ii) contribute to improved efficiency and transparency of selected government functions
through electronic government applications ."



b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/27/2010

c. Components:

There were three original components:

1: Enabling Environment : (estimated cost at appraisal: US$9.65 million, estimated additional financing cost US$1.35
million; actual cost at closure US$19.09 million). Activities in this component planned at creating an enabling
environment for the development of the ICT sector. This component had four sub-components:
(a) Providing operational and capacity building support to the Ministry of Communications (MoC) for implementing the
project (such as, in the areas of project coordination, financial and procurement management, reporting and
communicating results).
(b) Supporting the national telecommunications regulatory agency - the National Communication Authority (NCA) - for
preparing and implementing regulatory instruments and measures aimed at reducing the prices of telecommunication
services and improving the quality of delivery of these services to end users. Activities included: developing a
strategic sector reform plan based on existing and emerging priorities; supporting the regulation of access to
International Submarine Cable Gateway; carrying out a modelling assessment exercise and exploring options for re
balancing tariffs and interconnection of tariffs; developing service guidelines, service level agreement principles and
related enforcement mechanisms; and capacity-building support to the regulatory agency.
(c) Providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Communications (MOC) for developing the ICT sector and
Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES) industry, e-government policies and related legislation. The
Information Technology Enabled Service industry was defined in the project as the industry that provided IT services
(such as through setting up of call centers, data entry operations and medical transcription and claim processing
services), and these services could be provided either domestically or through off-shoring of business processes.
Activities also included: supporting the Postal and Courier Services Regulatory Commission in developing key
e-legislation for electronic transactions (such as e-signature and e-commerce) and systems for electronic payments,
privacy and data protection, intellectual property rights, cyber-crimes and cyber-security, consumer protection and
other related laws; and regulations for encouraging online transactions.
(d) Providing technical assistance for the privatization of incumbent telecom companies to the Ministry of Information
and National Orientation for developing the Broadcasting and Freedom of Information Legislation; and to enhance
access of citizens to e-government services (defined as digital interactions between government and citizens,
government and business/commerce, government and employees and between government and government
services) at the community level (such as through setting Community Information Centers).

2: Support to local business ICT Businesses and ITES . (estimated cost at appraisal US$9.46 million, estimated
additional financing cost US$5.25 million; actual cost at closure US$4.96 million). Activities in this component planned
at encouraging the local IT enterprises to invest in the Information Technology Service (ITES) Industry. This
component had four sub-components:
(a) Supporting the development of ITES industry through capacity-building exercises (such as, through preparing and
implementing an ITES human resources development plan, creating an ITES vocational training expert group with
members from the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs); developing ITES skills (such as through
setting standards, designing training curriculum, training institutions accreditation mechanisms and other short and
long term ITES educational activities); and providing Matching Grants to the public and private institutions that
satisfied the eligibility criteria for developing ITES training programs (including through designing incentives to
encourage equal participation of women).
(b) Supporting the establishment of a linkage program between educational institutions and ICT businesses (including
providing Matching Grants to the eligible educational institutions that incorporated business and operational
experience in the IITES training curriculum).
(c) Developing and implementing an investment promotion strategy aimed at attracting investors to the ITES sector
and to the Business Process Off -Shoring (BPO) industry, (BPO industry as defined in the project was a subset of
off-shoring industry that involved the contracting of operations of a specific business process to a third party service
provider).
(d) Supporting the local ICT private sector through a Matching Grant to the eligible public or private institutions for
developing a shared software testing facility for assisting local ICT small and medium enterprises obtain international
quality certification; providing Matching Grants to eligible networks of business incubators and similar institutions for
supporting the development of new businesses with ITES related activities; and, capacity-building and operational
support to the Outsourcing Association of Ghana to support the small, medium and large ITES companies.

3: E- Government Applications and Government Communications : (estimated cost at appraisal US$20.89 million;
estimated additional financing cost US$9.66 million; actual cost at closure US$26.38 million). Activities in this
component planned to support the development of ICT in government operations and applications. This component
had four sub-components:
(a) Developing IT architecture and Interoperability standards for government applications and networks.
(b) Providing Government Investment support under a Public Private Partnerships (PPP’s) for Ministries,
Departments and Agencies (MDA’s) for setting a high speed government wide communications network connecting
the key MDA's for sharing information and applications and securing government databases.
(c) Providing specialized training for chief information officers, technical staff of key MDA's, legislators and
magistrates.
(d) Carrying out a feasibility study for establishing PPP's for developing electronic applications of the Internal Revenue
Service and other e government applications, supporting the engagement of private sector partners for developing
such applications and providing Government Investment Support under PPP’s for developing electronic government
applications.

A project component was added following the additional financing:

4: Ghana Integrated Financial Management System (GIFMIS);(estimated cost at appraisal US$0.00 million,
estimated additional financing cost US$28.44 million; actual cost at closure US$26.32 million). Activities in this
component aimed at improving the efficiency and transparency of government financial management functions using
ICT based tools. This component had three sub-components:
(a) Establishing and updating modern technical infrastructure for ICT-based Public Financial Management systems
across the government (such as through connecting treasuries, Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDA’s), and
the Metropolitan, Municipal, District Assemblies (MMDA's) at the central, regional and district levels).
(b) Establishing Businesses processes and Control Systems. Activities in this sub-component included: (i) developing
budget planning tools for more effective macro-fiscal management and control of the budget; (ii) Review of the Public
Financial Management rules and regulations for supporting changes in businesses processes as part of the ICT
platform; (iii) Treasury and Cash Management for establishing a Treasury Single Account; and (iv) Strengthening
MDA's internal management.
(iv) Providing capacity-building support for implementing this component.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project cost: At appraisal, the estimated baseline cost was US$40.00 million. Estimated additional financing cost was
US$44.70 million and with this, the cumulative estimated project cost was US$84.70 million. The actual amount
disbursed at closure was US$76.75 million. The actual amount disbursed was lower than the cumulative estimated
project cost due to the modifications to the project components as follows.
1. In component one, funding was reallocated from a previously envisaged activity (financing transaction advisory
services for supporting the privatization of two telecom operations) as the government decided to use its own funds for
supporting this activity. Funds released were reallocated within this component for financing Regional Innovation
Centers in ten regional capitals that were to serve as focal points for delivery of e-Government activities. Reallocated
financing supported activities such as establishing the centers, providing training to the facility operators and
purchasing software and hardware.
2 In component two, financing was provided for capacity-building in selected universities for providing IT
management and software development courses for building IT skilled labor force, establishing a quality assurance
program (through providing matching grants to the eligible public or private institutions for supporting local ICT Small-
and medium sized enterprises (SME's) to obtain international certification; and establishing a Business Processing
Off-shoring (BPO) Center through refurbishing existing government warehouses on a PPP basis.
3. In component three, financing from an intended activity (a pilot Government-Wide Network (GovNet) network for
connecting about 76 key MDA's) was reallocated to supporting additional e-government applications (including
e-procurement and e-justice), since alternative source of funding had become available from the Chinese government
(about US$30 million). This additional funding enabled the GovNet to be extended to all 170 districts, municipalities,
and metropolitan areas in the country.

Project Financing: The original approved IDA Grant was US$40.00 million. Additional financing of US$44.70 million
was approved on May 27, 2010. With this, the cumulative IDA Grant for the project was US$88.70 million. At closure,
US$85.73 million was disbursed and US$105,138 was cancelled. Actual financing disbursed at closure was lower
than the cumulative estimated grant due to exchange rate variations between the Special Drawing Rights (the
currency of the Credits) and the US$ over the life of the project.

In addition to the IDA Grant for component four activities, there was pooled parallel financing for a total of US$32.14
million for component four activities from other development partners such as the United Kingdom's Department for
International Development (DFID - appraisal estimate US$15.05 million: actual financing at closure US$11.52 million);
the European Union (EU - appraisal estimate US$12.27 million, actual financing at closure US$9.96 million); and the
Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA - appraisal estimate US$4.82 million, actual cost at closure
US$3.97 million). In addition, there was financing for complementary ICT activities in this component from The
Rockefeller Foundation (US$3.8 million) and assistance from Goggle.

Borrower's Contribution: At appraisal, the Borrower contribution was expected to be US$2.00 million and at closure,
their contribution was US$0.00 million.

Dates: The project was restructured twice and extended by 33 months. There were no material changes in the
development objectives with the restructurings. The first level-2 restructuring on May 27, 2010, in addition to providing
additional financing for the project, incorporated an additional project component 4, reallocated finance between
project activities, increased the scope of the activities in other components, revised the indicators in line with the
increased scope of project activities and extended the project closing date to be co-terminus with the closing date of
the additional financing for the project. The project closing date was extended by two years and three months from
3/31/2012 to 6/30/2014.

The second level-2 restructuring on June 30, 2014, extended the project closing date by six months to December 30,
2014 for completion of the ongoing activities (such as the university connectivity program, the incubation center at
Regional Innovation Center at Kumasi; construction of the BPO center or setting up the GIFMIS; training 3,000
officers in the new budget software; and completion of the viable interface between the revenue systems and the
GIFMIS).




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High:

The project development objectives were and continues to be highly relevant to the country’s development agenda.
The average growth rate realized in the years just prior to appraisal (2004 and 2005) was 5.8 percent, as compared to
the historical average of 4.8 percent over the last twenty years in Ghana. Sustaining the growth rate and further
accelerating the growth rate through diversifying the sources of growth was important for Ghana to realize its goal of
reaching middle income status by 2015. The Government had targeted the nascent but fast growing ICT sector (and
the agro processing and tourism services sectors) as the sectors with potential to drive growth in the coming years.
The government's specific priorities regarding the ICT sector, as articulated in the Ghana ICT for Accelerated
Development Policy of 2003 (ICT4AD) and the National Telecommunications Policy, identified the need for making
the telecommunications sector more competitive, and thereby providing the foundation for a robust knowledge
economy. While the first Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS I 2004- 2007), formulated in the aftermath of the
country's economic crisis, broadly highlighted the need for sustainable equitable growth and accelerated poverty
reduction, the second GPRS II (2006-2009), specifically articulated the need for diversifying the sources of growth.

At the appraisal the Country Assistance Strategy for the 2004-2007 period identified the need for sustainable growth
and job creation through among things, expanding and diversifying the production base and realizing the potential for
increasing income through developing knowledge intensive sectors. The first pillar of the Ghana Joint Assistance
Strategy for the 2007-2011 highlighted the need for increasing private sector competitiveness, through among things
creating a conducive environment for a competitive ICT sector and lower cost for ICT services.


The project development objectives continue to be relevant to the Bank's country strategy for Ghana. The objectives
of the project were relevant to the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the 2013-2016, in particular to the pillars
associated with improving public institutions and fostering competitiveness and employment.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

The statement of the project development outcome is reasonably clear, and the casual links between the project
activities in each component, their outputs and the outcomes is logical, and the intended outcomes were in principle,
measurable.

While component One activities (such as providing capacity building and technical assistance to the Ministry of
Communications (MOC) for developing the ICT sector and ITES services, and to the National Communications
Authority (NCA) and other government regulatory agencies) would contribute to creating an enabling environment for
the development of the ICT sector and component two activities aimed at supporting the development of Information
Technology Enabled Service (ITES) industry (such as capacity building for the local ICT enterprises) would contribute
to creating an environment conducive for attracting local enterprises investments in the ICT sector and Information
Technology Enabled Service industry. The combination of these two project component activities could be expected
to contribute to the specific objective of generating growth and employment in the ICT sector.

While component Three activities (such as developing Information Technology Architecture and interoperability
standards, government wide communications networks connecting the Ministries, Departments and Agencies and
developing electronic applications for government operations through PPP arrangements), could be expected to
contribute to the development of ICT in government operations, component four activities (such as ICT based
systems for the financial management of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies could be expected to contribute to
the automation of public financial management systems. Together these activities could be expected to support
achievement of the project development objectives of improving the efficiency and transparency of selected
government functions


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):


"To assist the Recipient in generating growth and employment by leveraging Information and Communication
Technologies (ICT) and Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) to: (i) develop the information technology enabled
services industry , and (ii) contribute to improved efficiency and transparency of selected government functions
through electronic government applications is assessed in relation to two of its objectives ."

The achievement of these two objectives is discussed below. Project outcomes benefited significantly for the parallel
financed activities by other donors and the independent contributions from the Chinese government, the Rockefeller
Foundation and Google. The exact attribution of outcomes to the various sector participants, including the Bank, is
impossible to determine.

Objective One: To generate growth and employment by leveraging ICT and PPP's to develop the ITES industry:
Substantial.

Outputs:

(a) creating an enabling environment for the development of the ICT sector

Under the auspices of the project, eight laws and three regulations were passed to facilitate the development of the
ICT sector. This exceeded the original target of four laws. These laws were:
1. The National Communications Act of 2008 which established the National Communications Authority as the central
body for licensing and regulating telecommunication activities and services.
2. The Electronic Communications Act, 2008 for regulating electronic communication broadcasting, electronic
communications, broadcasting service providers and their networks.
3.The National Information Technology Agency Act of 2008 for regulating information communication technology.
4. The Electronic Transactions Act, 2008 for facilitating electronic communications and related transactions in the
public interest.
5. Electronic Communications Regulations, 2011, provided subsidiary legislation for strengthening the provision of the
Electronic Communications Regulation.
6. The Mobile Number Portability Regulations, 2011 aimed at removing the obstacles for customers who wished to
change networks but were reluctant to do so due to the inconvenience associated with changing their phone numbers.
7. Electronic Communications (Amendment) Act, 2009 to address challenges associated with international incoming
call termination.
8. Subscriber Identity Module Regulations, 2011 to address challenges associated with the use of mobile phones to
commit various crimes in the country.
9. Companies (Amendment) Act 2012 to facilitate the electronic registration process of companies at the registrar
general's department.
10. The Electronic Transactions (Amendment) Act, 2012, for facilitating the electronic registration process of
companies at the Registrar General's department.
11. Data Protection Act, 2012, to protect the privacy of the individual and personal data.

The ITES Secretariat and the National Information Technology Agency was established as targeted, and the agency
was functioning at the project closure stage.
Models and frameworks for developing ITES and BPO policies were completed as targeted, and the framework
provided key recommendations in the areas of Talent Development, Quality Infrastructure and Cost competitiveness.
The strategic plan for the National Communication Authority was completed, with recommendations for the short,
medium and long term.
One PPP contract covering five applications (Internal Revenue Service, Revenue Agencies Governing Board, and
Large Tax office, Small and Medium Enterprises (SME's) Tax Office and the Registrar General's Department) were
completed as compared to the original target of three applications. At closure, investments in the ICT/ ITES under
PPP arrangements were around US$60 million as per the revised target and as compared to the original target of
US$67 million.
Ten Regional innovation centers were completed (including the construction of building infrastructure and providing
Local Area Network Connectivity (LAN) to these centers) to encourage the use of ICT's in the regions as targeted.

(b) Creating an environment conducive for supporting investments in ITES by local enterprises.

An ICT industry Association was established for recruiting technical service providers as targeted.
Standards were developed for building ITES Skills and the training curriculum for ITES industry and Business
Process Offshoring (BPO) was developed as targeted. The curriculum which was designed to generate job creation
focused on six areas: Customer Interaction, Data entry and Processing, IT technical support, Data Conversion,
Finance and Accounting and Medical Transcription. The ICR (page 32) notes that this curriculum was subsequently
adopted by the Governing Council of the ITES and the BPO industry.
532 BPO agents were trained as compared to the target of 500. Of this, 427 trainees took the certification exams
and 361 passed.
28% of managerial positions were held by women as compared to 5% at the baseline and as compared to the
revised target of 20%.
41 new companies were incubated each year as compared to the original and revised targets of 25 and 30
respectively.
A BPO center was established at project closure through the refurbishment of warehouses in Accra. The activity
included upgrading of the existing facilities and installation of technical equipment at the center. Investment
promotion events were conducted for attracting investors in Ghana as targeted.

Outcomes:

All the outcomes were either realized or exceeded. By improving and developing the ICT and the Information
Technology Enabled Services industry, growth and employment were increased:
The ICT sector contributed to the growth of GDP and export revenues. According to the statistics provided by the
Ghana Statistical Service (GSS) the ICT sector accounted for 2.44% of the GDP at project closure as compared to the
original target of 1.5%. Export revenue generated by the ICT sector and the /ITES industry (a proxy calculated based
on the number employed in the sector and average wage in the sector) increased to US$72 million by project closure.
This exceeded the original and revised targets of US$90 million and US$70 million respectively. The ICR (page iv)
notes that the targets were revised downwards due to the lower international demand in the wake of the global
economic crisis.
6,500 incremental jobs were created in the ICT and ITES sector as compared to 2,200 jobs at baseline. Thus 8,700
people were employed in these sectors at project closure. This exceeded the original and revised targets of 6,000
people and 7,000 people respectively.
54.3% of the jobs in the ICT and ITES sector were held by women as compared to the original and revised targets
of 50% and 55% respectively. 28% of the managerial positions in the sector were held by women at project closure as
compared to the original target of 20%

Objective Two: To contribute to improved efficiency and transparency of selected government functions through
electronic government applications: Substantial

Outputs:

(a) Support the development of ICT in government applications and communications

Enterprise Architecture designed to use IT information for government operations and Inter-operability framework
for facilitating Intra-government communications was completed as targeted.
A government wide network (GovNet) - a communication infrastructure connecting all government agencies onto a
single shared and secured communication platform - was established and deployed in all regional capitals and 15
districts across the country. The ICR (page 33) reports that the project developed the concept for the Gov Net with a
smaller scope (Metro Network in Accra and Tema), and the government expanded the system nationwide with
additional funding from the Chinese government. With this, the GovNet was deployed in over 300 government
organizations in the country by project closure.
At project closure, 283 MDA's (including 33 ministries and 250 spending units) used program based budget
classifications in the preparation of their 2015 budget.
The Portal infrastructure (consisting of data center, payment gateway, security and authentication systems were
developed and this portal infrastructure was integrated with the Government e-payment platform) for collection of
revenue online for government services (such as for licenses, taxes, fee payments, fixed fees and other service
payments, such as passport fees).
E-government software applications were operational (such as for the Ghana Revenue Authority and the Registrar
General's department. Tax returns could be filed online and the Registrar General Department (RGD) portal provided
online registration for transactions such as business/company registration, marriage registration, estate
administration, e-payments, online booking for marriages and scheduling appointments with officers of the
department.
856 Chief Information officers were trained as compared to the target of 100. This included training to 96 legal and
judicial staff. 2,623 technical staff were trained as compared to the original target of 100.

(b) Support to development of ICT services in public financial management systems

The new Ghana Financial System was finalized as per the revised target and the full Ghana Integrated Financial
Management Information System (GIFMIS) was rolled out after a pilot at the Controller and Accountant General
Department (CAGD) and the Ministry of Finance.
All the ministries (33) and regional treasuries were connected to the central budget as targeted.
Training programs were delivered as targeted. This included Oracle University Training to all end users of the
MDA's at the national and regional level, training to the IT staff for MDA's in Accra and 22 regional MDA's to provide
first line support to end users, and 12 staff members were trained in Oracle Certification Training.
The project secretariat was established as targeted. Consultants were recruited to provide technical assistance in
the fields of procurement, Management, Finance and Accounting and Communication.
Activities such as production of systems based Ghana Government Finance Statistics and public sector accounting
standards were ongoing at the project closure stage.
Although a review of the Financial Management legislation was completed, the legislative updates were not
completed at the project closure stage, as per the revised target.

Outcomes:

All outcomes were either realized or exceeded. Improved efficiency and transparency of selected government
functions through electronic government applications was achieved.
Tax collection increased as a result of structuring the Public Private Partnership (PPP) contract, in a way that linked
contract compensation to performance. Revenue collected through the Total Revenue Integrated Processing System -
a new tax collection system implemented by the project - increased from 0 percent of the total tax collection in 2012 to
61.7 percent by 2015.
The cost of bandwidth for a full circuit E1 line (between Accra and Portugal reduced from US$10,000 (pre project
2005 for non-Ghana Internet Service Providers Association members) to less than US$1,200 for all internet and data
service providers.
The revised Telecom Act opened the sector to further competition and the number of mobile operators increased
from four to six during the project period.
Following the application of the e-government registrations, there was an increase in automated business
registrations (87,900), and there was an increase in new taxpayers (estimated at 400,000) following the provision of
the taxpayer identification number (TIN) registrations that enabled people to file their taxes online.

A survey was conducted at the project closure stage to gauge user perception of services that were provided through
the automation process. 76% of the beneficiaries (which included consumers, government agencies and other
stakeholders such as the private sector representatives) were satisfied with the electronic delivery of services - this
exceeded the original target of 68%.

5. Efficiency:


Substantial.

Economic and Financial Efficiency :

Annex 9 of the PAD analyses the possible impact of the project in terms of social benefits from employment,
governance and women participation, higher economic returns from a strong ITES industry and improved ICT
products and services and greater fiscal returns due to new sources of revenue. It concluded that in view of the
socio-economic impact, benefits would outweigh its cost, although the benefits could not be easily quantified.
Although no economic or financial rate of return was calculated at the appraisal stage, several projections of the
project result (such as employment growth, tax collection through the automation of the revenue collection process)
were made.

The ICR (page 41) notes that, although several approaches had been undertaken internationally to measure the
impact of government interventions (such as system automation by ICT and e-services), a common approach for
quantifying the benefits for such ICT interventions has not yet been developed. Although there was no calculation of
economic or financial rate of return, the ICR used the projections made at the appraisal stage to assess the
quantitative impact of the project. The actual number of jobs created by the ICT was 8,700 as compared to the
appraisal projection of 6,714. Likewise, additional tax data collected by the Ghana Revenue Authority in 2015 using
the Total Revenue Integrated Processing system showed an increasing trend (25.7% in 2014 as compared to 10% in
2013). The project contributed to leveraging US$40 million from the private sector through the PPP contract. While
additional data are needed to measure the revenue effect of the project, there is evidence that the project contributed
to these outcomes.

Operational and Administrative Efficiency :

There were administrative or operational shortcomings and although there was a doubling of the project's resources,
some activities (such as the construction of Business Process Offshoring) were not completed and some targets were
not met (such as the update of the Financial Management legislative framework) and the formal launch of online
payments for licenses took place after project closure. Although there were delays in executing the contracts for
procurement, 91% of the financing had been disbursed at closure.

According to additional information provided by the Task Team, delays in the construction of Business Process
Off-shoring Center were mainly due to the floods in 2013. The center was constructed by October 2015 and
occupancy of the center is to commence once the certificates for safeguards compliance are obtained and
transformers are installed. Regarding the financial management legislative framework, the Task Team clarified that
the project's mandate was to support the government in updating the legislative framework and the revised draft for
the legislative framework has been completed to date. On the issue of procurement delays, the team clarified that
although the Post Procurement Review carried out in April 2014 noted a number of delays associated with contract
execution, the Procurement Review conducted in January 2015 noted improvements and lowered the overall risk
rating for procurement from Substantial to Moderate. The reduction of total funds available for disbursement was
caused by significant depreciation of the local currency with respect to the US dollar, not administrative inefficiencies..



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of objective is rated as High and the relevance of design is rated as Substantial. Efficacy of the two
objectives is rated as Substantial. All outcomes were achieved. Although there was no calculation of economic or
financial rate of return for want of a common approach for quantifying the benefits from ICT interventions, there is
evidence that the project significantly contributed to revenue generation and employment creation. Efficiency is rated
as Substantial.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The Technical Risk is assessed as Low: The project supported e-government applications including the automation of
Government functions. The possibility that government would revert to a paper based systems is low. Likewise, the
training provided to the staff with the automated processes can be expected to contribute to their skills in using the
automated process in the coming years.
The Institutional Risk is rated as Moderate. Although the regional innovation center and the Kumasi Business
Incubator had been completed at the closure stage, their value to the ITES industry still needs to be demonstrated.




   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The project preparation build on the lessons learnt from a prior ICT project in Sri Lanka (Sri Lanka: E-lanka
Development Project, P081771). Given that an Independent Evaluation Group's report on Ghana had identified
the weak country capacity as one of the factors responsible for the relatively low success of public reform projects
in Ghana, the design correctly incorporated an extensive capacity-building dimension. Several risks were
identified (including high risks associated with lack of coordination among the different partners and financial
management) and mitigation measures were applied. The M&E design was for the most part appropriate
(discussed in Section 10) and sufficient provisions were made for fiduciary and safeguards compliance.

However, the design underestimated the risk associated with donor coordination. Lack of provisions for
harmonized reporting ex ante and the multiple reporting requirements of the different partners created burdens for
the project implementing unit and the government

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

There were 15 supervision missions over the eight year implementation period. In terms of expertise, the project
was headed by an ICT policy specialist, and the continuity of leadership of the task team leader was maintained
throughout the life of the project. The relocation of the supervision team to Accra after the Mid-Term Review
helped in addressing the main challenges to the project in the wake of the global crisis and during the contracting
for the PPP.

The supervision team was responsive and adapted to the changing government priorities. While the original
project activities (such as e-applications) focused mainly on government revenue generation, managing
government expenditures proactively was a priority to the new government that came to power during
implementation. The supervision team was responsive to the new government’s changed priorities and a new
component was added and supported through additional financing rather than as a stand-alone project, thus
saving time. The additional project component for which there was pooled financing was prepared in close
collaboration with other development partners. M&E indicators were added for the activities which were added.
With changing project scope, the supervision team correctly invoked OP4.12 Involuntary Resettlement as a
precautionary measure.

The supervision team was responsive to the rapidly changing technology trends in the sector and pro-actively
capitalized on the opportunities that arose for avoiding redundant expenditures by incorporating additional project
activities, For instance, while component two activities planned to provide capacity-building at selected
universities, the Bank and the government team took advantage of the offer from Google to provide this activity in
collaboration with the Bank. Likewise, while emerging cloud technologies made it cheaper to test software without
incurring the expensive investments associated with establishing a quality assurance program, the supervision
team adapted existing financing to focus more on general capacity-building.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
 a. Government Performance:

The Government was committed to the project throughout design and implementation. The government initiated
major changes to the project design, such as adding the GIFMIS component to automate the budget; freed-up
resources from other activities to fund other activities; and facilitated use the additional funds that became
available from other donors such as the Rockefeller foundation and Google for complementary ICT sector
activities. The Government's decision to use Bank procurement rules to base the national procurement law and
working with the stakeholders from the beginning helped in speeding up the procurement process.



   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

There were three implementing agencies: The Ministry of Communication (MoC), the Ministry of Finance and the
Controller and Accountant General Department (CAGD). While the MoC was responsible for implementing the
bulk of the activities in Component one, two and three activities, and the MoF was responsible for Component four
activities and CAGD was responsible for some component three activities (automation of government applications
in CAGD).

The project implementation unit was located at the MoC headquarters and the project implementation unit for
GIFMIS was also located at the MoF headquarters. The three implementing agencies were proactive in making
course corrections and dealing with day-to-day implementation issues. The continuity of the team, with the key
members remaining throughout the project aided in the implementation of the project. The financial management
of the implementing agency was deemed to be adequate.

However, the MoF found it challenging to fulfill the multiple reporting requirements of the different donor agencies
for the GIFMIS activity. Some activities were not completed at project closure and there were delays associated
with procurement.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The M&E team at the MoC was responsible for developing a common evaluation framework and collecting and
reporting results. There were six key project indicators (employment in the ITES and BPO sector; contribution of ICT
sector to GDP; changes in bandwidth prices; an indicator to gauge the perception of the BPO/ITES industry on the
support provided by the public sector in the areas of policy, laws and regulation; the percentage of MDA who
expressed satisfaction with the services provided by MoC; and ratio of electronic to manual transactions at the project
closure stage), and the key outcome indicators were appropriate


b. M&E Implementation:

New indicators that were added for the GIFMIS component were appropriate. An international consultant was
responsible for developing the methodology for user surveys, data collection and administering the survey. The
baseline targets and actual targets were of different units in some cases and this necessitated the need for re
examining the data with the PIU to determine results. The ICR (page 10) notes that the regular project progress
reports allowed both PIUs and the Bank to target efforts in implementation.


c. M&E Utilization:
The information provided by the team clarified that these indicators continue to be monitored and that the National
Development Planning Commission had adopted some of the key project indicators (such as percentage contribution
of ICT to GDP. reduction in bandwidth prices and revenue generated by the ICT and ITES companies) to guide the
planning process of the Commission.




M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as Category ‘C’ under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment at the appraisal and no
other safeguard policies were triggered. The category was later changed to Category 'B' with the addition of the
project component which entailed construction of ten regional innovative centers and refurbishment of government
facilities for the Business Process Off-shoring Center BPOC, and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) was triggered.
The ICR (page 11) reports that an Environment and Social Management Framework and a Resettlement Policy
Framework and Action Plan were prepared to address potential impacts. The ICR (page 11) notes that there was an
environmental safeguard issue relating to a gas facility being placed at the BPOC during the rehabilitation work. This
Center is not yet functional and the ICR reports that this safeguard issue is expected to be resolved when BPOC is
formally launched.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Arrangements : There was compliance with the financial covenants. There were external audits and these
were not qualified. The ICR (page 10) notes that the audits identified some ineligible expenditures but these were
resolved with a reimbursement.

The findings of the Performance and Financial Audit of the new activity conducted jointly with other development
partners (EU, DFID, DANIDA) indicated that overall 60% of the project activity had been completed at project closure,
while the Bank team concluded that 75% of the activity had been completed. The ICR (page 78) reports that the audit
conducted by the other development partners covered only the 2010- to 2013 period, and did not account for the
implementation of the activity in 2014 when the project closed.

Procurement Arrangement . There were no reported cases of misprocurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory              Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                  Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory              Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory              Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                         Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR draws the following lessons from the experience of preparing and implementing this project.

It is important to undertake activities associated with improving the enabling environment that could have impact
beyond the Project Development Objective . In the case of this project, to address the need for improved quality of
ICT service and lower prices of internet services, the Information Technology Enabled Services (ITES) industry
secretariat, in collaboration with the Bank, also negotiated with the Ghana Telecom to develop service level
agreements. This in turn contributed to lowering the prices of internet services.

Although Public Private Partnership (PPP) can be challenging to implement , they can be very useful in providing
incentives for the contractor to deliver good value . In the case of this project, the structuring of the contract which
linked compensation to contractor-based performance contributed to the outcomes.

Financing by multiple development partners can be challenging when different partners have different reporting
requirements. It would be useful to consider alternatives such as allowing for a consolidated report that satisfies all
donors.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR is for the most part well written. It reports both outputs and outcomes of the project and its assessment of the
project is evidence based and comprehensive. It is also candid about the implementation problems that were
encountered.

The ICR however could have provided more information on the arrangements for a joint pooled parallel financing.
According to the additional information provided by the team, such financing mechanisms supported a holistic
program while avoiding fragmented donor contributions that could lead to duplication of efforts and past experience
had shown that such financing arrangements provides the best support for ICT interventions.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
