Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7281-CO 
 
Loan Agreement  
 
(Water and Sanitation Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
Dated  June 2, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7281-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated  June 2, 2005 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and REPUBLIC OF 
COLOMBIA (the Borrower); 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Environment, Housing and Territorial Development (MAVDT), dated November 25,  
2004 which letter describes the Borrower’s strategies and objectives with respect to its 
water and sanitation development program to assist low-income population in rural and 
urban communities in the Borrower’s territory (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such Program; 
 
(B)  
the Borrower has requested that the Bank support the Borrower’s 
execution of the Program through a series of loans over a period of approximately ten 
(10) years, as part of an adaptable program lending sequence, to be utilized by the 
Borrower in the implementation of the Program; and 
 
(C)  
the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
 
(a)  
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
Page  3
-
2-
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits 
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and 
the accomplishme
nt
of
the purposes of the Loan;”  
 
(b)  
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the Loan, 
or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing 
of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on, or in 
respect of, any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in 
respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as required  to be consistent  
with such policy of the Bank;” and 
 
(c) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of an involuntary 
taking of land under the Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely 
affected; or (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural 
and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset  acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or 
permanently; or (iv) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely 
affected, temporarily or permanently; and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected 
Persons; 
 
(b) 
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.05 
(a) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(c) 
“Agent” means an entity vested with legal personality, registered in the 
Borrower’s territory, and empowered to carry out disbursement and financial 
management activities, in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(d) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 3.04 
(a) of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3-
(e)  
“DNP” means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación, 
the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department, or any successor thereto;  
 
(f) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the Project; 
 
(g) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Environmental Management Framework” and the acronym “EMF” 
mean the plans of action, satisfactory to the Bank, prepared by MAVDT and published on 
its website on October 15, 2004, which set out the objectives, policies, monitoring 
procedures, time schedules and other environmental protection provisions to: (A) 
mitigate potential environmental effects; (B) mitigate potential adverse effects to natural 
habitats; and (C) mitigate potential adverse effects to cultural property in the carrying out 
of Part A.1 of the Project, set forth in an annex to the Implementation Letter (as 
hereinafter defined), as such plans may be revised from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank;  
 
(i) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (a) the Project monitoring indicators; (b) the IPDF (as 
hereinafter defined); (c) the EMF; and (d) the PFCR (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(k) 
“IPDF” means the Borrower’s indigenous peoples development 
framework, satisfactory to the Bank, in connection with the carrying out of Parts A.1 and 
A.2 of the Project, set forth in an annex to the Implementation Letter, as such framework 
may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(l) 
“Model Forms” means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to 
the Bank, including standard drafts of the Agency Agreement, and the Territorial Entity 
Financial Support Agreement (as hereinafter defined), set forth in the Operational Manual 
(as hereinafter defined); 
 
(m) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Participating Territorial Entity” or “Participating Territorial Entities” 
means a Borrower’s political subdivision (or subdivisions), selected according to the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, and empowered to carry out 
Territorial Entity Subprojects; 
 
(o) 
“Policy Framework for Compensation and Resettlement of Project 
Affected Persons” and the acronym “PFCR” mean the policy framework for 
Page  5
-
4-
compensation and resettlement of Affected Persons, satisfactory to the Bank, in 
connection with the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, dated October 15, 2004, 
prepared by MAVDT and adopted through its web site, set forth in an annex to the 
Implementation Letter, as said policy framework may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(p) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
December 24, 2004 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation;  
 
(q) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Section B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(s) 
“Territorial Entity Financial Support Agreement” means any of the 
agreements referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (i)  of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and 
 
(t) 
“Territorial Entity Subproject” means a set of investments to be carried 
out by a Participating Territorial Entity under a Territorial Entity Financial Support 
Agreement and included in Part A.1 of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seventy million 
Dollars ($70,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable costs of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan.  
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Page  6
-
5-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. The Borrower shall pay 
such fee no later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date.  
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
Page  7
-
6-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MAVDT, with the assistance 
of the Participating Territorial Entities and the Agent, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, anthropological, financial, managerial, 
public utility, social, environmental and technical standards and practices, as well as in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, the EMF, the IPDF, the PFCR, the Project 
monitoring indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, and the Annual Action 
Plans, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Without prejudice to the provisions related to Project 
implementation set forth in this Agreement including, but not limited to, Section 3.01, the 
Borrower, through MAVDT, shall issue, and carry out the Project in accordance with, a 
manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter 
alia:
 
(i) 
an institutional framework plan of MAVDT, the Participating 
Territorial Entities, and the Agent for the management of the 
Project (including, 
inter alia
,
allocation of responsibilities 
among staff, the methodology for yearly planning of activities 
and budget and time allocation for those activities); 
 
(ii) 
detailed arrangements for the overall carrying out of the Project 
(including, 
inter alia, 
the procurement, financial management, 
environmental, resettlement and social guidelines to be followed 
during Project implementation by the Borrower, the Participating 
Territorial Entities and the Agent);  
 
(iii) 
the guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Action Plans;  
 
(iv) 
the criteria and procedures for: 
Page  8
-
7-
(A) 
the selection of the Participating Territorial 
Entities; 
 
(B) 
the preparation, review, approval and 
implementation of Territorial Entity Subprojects, 
(including, 
inter alia
,
a
suggested list of possible 
activities to be carried out under Territorial 
Entity Subprojects and a negative list of 
activities that can not be carried out under 
Territorial Entity Subprojects);  
 
(C) 
the procurement and contracting procedures 
applicable to consultant’s services, goods and 
works procured by the Participating Territorial 
Entities under Territorial Entity Subprojects;  
 
(D) 
training and technical assistance, environmental 
assessments, resettlement assessments, social 
assessments, and corresponding mitigation 
measures; and 
 
(E) 
the development of a uniform approach (which 
approach is also known as 
Ventanilla Unica
)
to 
analyze and finance sector investments and 
improve the performance of utilities. 
 
 
(v) 
special provisions to address the needs of indigenous peoples, as 
provided for in the IPDF and in Section 3.07 of this Agreement; 
 
(vi) 
the guidelines for the implementation of the EMF, the IPDF, and 
the PFCR in connection with the carrying  out of the Project; and 
 
(vii) 
the Model Forms.  
 
(b) 
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree in writing, the 
Borrower shall not abrogate, amend, suspend, waive or otherwise fail to enforce the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof. 
 
(c)  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall: 
 
(a) 
 not later than  June 30 of each year during Project implementation, 
starting in year 2005, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, and to DNP for information 
purposes, an annual action plan (the Annual Action Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) the Project activities to be carried out by MAVDT with the assistance of the 
Page  9
-
8-
Participating Territorial Entities and of the Agent during the twelve months immediately 
following the presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the procurement plan, disbursement 
schedule and chart of accounts for each said twelve month period; and 
 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan, approved by the 
Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) Upon approval of the corresponding Annual Action Plan by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, through MAVDT: (i) enter into separate agreements or amend 
existing separate agreements (the Territorial Entity Financial Support Agreements), on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with each Participating Territorial Entity,  
such agreements to include, 
inter alia
:
(A)  
the Borrower’s obligation to transfer, on a grant basis, to 
each Territorial Entity the proceeds of the Loan allocated 
under Parts A.1 of the Project for the Participating 
Territorial Entity; 
 
(B) 
the Participating Territorial Entity’s obligation to: 
 
(1) 
provide or cause to be provided, in a timely 
manner as needed, its share of the funds, goods 
and/or services required for implementing Parts 
A.1 of the Project; 
 
(2) 
carry out, or assist the Borrower in carrying out, 
Part A.1 of the Project;  
 
(3) 
assist the Borrower to allow full compliance with 
the obligations set forth in Sections 3.03 and 3.04 
of this Agreement;  
 
(4) 
maintain records and accounts, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank (including any other 
information and/or documentation as the Bank 
may request from time to time) regarding Part 
A.1 of the Project to enable the Borrower to 
comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 
and 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(5) 
participate in each of the annual reviews referred 
to in Section 3.09 (c) of this Agreement; 
 
(6) 
procure the goods, services and works for the 
Project in accordance with the requirements of 
this Agreement; 
 
Page  10
-
9-
(7)  
abide by all applicable Project provisions laid 
out in this Agreement;  
 
(8) 
follow the provisions of the EMF, the IPDF and 
the PFCR in the carrying out of Parts A.1 of the 
Project; and 
 
(9) 
in the applicable cases (that is, if the relevant 
Participating Territorial Entity decides so and 
the local utility company is publicly owned and 
managed), and for the purposes of a Territorial 
Entity Subproject implementation, sign a letter 
of commitment with the local utility company. 
 
(C) 
the requirements for auditing the expenditures under 
Parts A.1 of the Project; 
 
(D) 
the Borrower’s right to suspend disbursements for Loan 
proceeds allocated to Part A.1 of the Project in the event 
of non-compliance by the Participating Territorial 
Entities with the obligations set forth in the 
corresponding Territorial Entity Financial Support 
Agreement, this Agreement and/or those of the 
Operational Manual;  
 
(E) 
the schedule of disbursements of Loan proceeds by the 
Borrower to the Participating Territorial Entities for the 
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project; 
 
 
(F) 
the technical, social, financial, procurement, 
environmental, and resettlement  requirements for the 
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project; and  
 
(G) 
special provisions to address the needs of indigenous 
peoples, as provided for in the IPDF and in Section 3.07 
of this Agreement; 
 
(ii)  
enter into a separate agreement or amend existing separate 
agreement (the Agency Agreement) with the Agent, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
obligation of the Agent to: (A) assist  the Borrower in the 
disbursement of Loan proceeds; (B) assist the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the financial management of the Project; (C) 
comply with those obligations pertaining to the Agent referred to 
in Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement; and (D)  hire 
independent supervisors (
interventores
)
to carry out supervision 
under Part A.2  of the Project. 
Page  11
-
10- 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under each Territorial Entity Financial Support Agreement and 
the Agency Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan; and  
 
(ii)  
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any 
Territorial Entity Financial Support Agreement, and/or the 
Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.   
 
(c) 
In case of any conflict between: (i) the terms of any Territorial Entity 
Financial Support Agreement and/or the Agency Agreement; and (ii) the terms of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain in MAVDT, at all times during 
Project implementation, a team of professionals to assist the Borrower in the 
implementation, coordination, monitoring and supervision of the Project.  
 
Section 3.07. (a) With regard to Project components which affect indigenous 
communities, the Borrower, through MAVDT, shall: (i) follow the procedures set forth in 
the IPDF and in the Operational Manual; and (ii) ensure that such communities 
participate systematically in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of said 
components of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
 such monitoring and evaluation shall include beneficiary assessments, 
and the Borrower, through MAVDT, shall cause the results of such monitoring and 
evaluation to be made publicly available in a timely manner once such results are 
generated. 
 
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall: 
 
(a) 
agree and coordinate with the Participating Territorial Entities all 
necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of 
shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income or means of 
livelihood, temporarily or permanently as a result of Part A.1of the Project;  
 
(b) 
ensure that prior to initiating the implementation of any Territorial Entity 
Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project, said Territorial Entity Subprojects shall comply, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, with: (i) the provisions of the IPDF; (ii) 
the provisions of the PFCR; and (iii) the applicable  environmental measures set forth in 
the EMF; 
 
(c) 
cause the Participating Territorial Entities to implement their respective 
parts of the Project in compliance with all the applicable environmental measures set 
forth in the EMF and shall prevent that the Participating Territorial Entities take any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such compliance; and 
Page  12
-
11- 
 
(d) 
furnish to the Bank any revisions proposed to be introduced into the 
IPDF, the PFCR, and/or EMF in order to achieve their objectives and, thereafter, 
introduce such revisions into such plans as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
 
Section 3.09. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, 
through MAVDT,  shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter and the data produced by the monitoring and evaluation program 
referred to in Part B.4 of the Project, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, 
each February and August during Project implementation, starting with the report due not 
later than August 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of 
presentation of the report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the following calendar semester;  
 
(c)  
review with the Bank, DNP, the Participating Territorial Entities, and the 
Agent by August of each year of Project implementation, or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, starting in year 2005, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said reports and the
 Bank’s views on the matter; and  
 
(d) 
carry out an in-depth review (the Mid-Term Review) jointly with the 
Bank, DNP, a selection of the Participating Territorial Entities, and the Agent by March 
31, 2007 or such later date as the Bank shall agree, on the progress achieved in the  
implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower, through MAVDT, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure 
the sustainability of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  13
-
12- 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall cause the Agent 
(pursuant to the provisions of the Agency Agreement) to: (i) at all the times, maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts; and (ii) prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through MAVDT, shall cause the Agent to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each of the Borrower’s fiscal years audited (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank), in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, by said auditors 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower, through MAVDT, shall cause the Agent to: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;   
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Page  14
-
13- 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MAVDT, 
with the assistance of the Agent, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.  
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished by the Borrower, through MAVDT, to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR 
shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
 
(i) 
that any Participating Territorial Entity shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under its corresponding Territorial 
Entity Financial Support Agreement and/or that MAVDT shall 
have failed to exercise its remedies under said Territorial Entity 
Financial Support Agreement; and  
 
(ii) 
that the Agent shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Agency Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Without prejudice to the Bank’s rights contained in Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, it is understood that, if the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section shall have occurred, the Bank may choose, by notice to the Borrower, to suspend 
in whole or in part only the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account for expenditures under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project. 
Page  15
-
14- 
 
ARTICLE VI
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been issued and adopted by MAVDT, and 
approved by the Bank; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower, through MAVDT, has furnished evidence, in a manner and 
form satisfactory to the Bank, showing establishment of the financial management system 
for the Project; and   
 
(c) 
the Agency Agreement has been executed and delivered by the parties 
thereto. 
 
Section 6.02. The date August 31, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Bank: 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  16
-
15- 
For the Borrower: 
Minister of Finance and Public Credit 
Palacio de los Ministerios 
Plaza
 San Agustín  
Carrera 7-A, Número 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C.  
Colombia 
 
Facsimile:  
 
(571) 350-9344 
Page  17
-
16- 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Luis Alberto Moreno 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Page  18
-
17- 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
 Services, 
Training 
and 
 
Operating Costs under  
 
Part A.1 of the Project 
61,900,000 
 
100%  
 
(2) 
Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
 Services, 
Training 
and 
 
Operating Costs under  
 
Part A.2 of the Project 
 6,900,000 
 
100%  
 
(3) 
Goods, Works, Consultants’ 
 Services, 
Training 
and 
 
Operating Costs under  
 
Part B of the Project 
1,200,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) 
Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 Collars 
-0- 
this 
Agreement
 
________ 
 TOTAL 
70,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “Training” means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual 
budget previously approved by the Bank (other than those for consultants’ services), 
incurred by the Borrower, to finance transportation costs and per diem of trainers and 
trainees, workshops, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and 
Page  19
-
18- 
material under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent Project 
expenditures, based on an annual budget previously approved by the Bank, that would 
not have been incurred by MAVDT absent the Project, such as office utilities, travel 
costs, per diem for official Project staff, operation and maintenance of office equipment 
financed with the proceeds of the Loan, and non-durable goods, all needed for the 
supervision of the Project.   
 
3.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $14,000,000 
may be made on account of payments made within twelve months prior to the date of this 
Agreement, but not earlier than October 1, 2004; and (b) for any Category set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless and until the Borrower shall have paid to the 
Bank in full the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods; (b) 
under contracts for works; (c) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms; (d) 
under contracts for the employment of individual consultants; (e) for Training; and (f) 
Operating Costs; that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of the Procurement Plan.  
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account (the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank.  
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
Page  20
-
19- 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
Page  21
-
20- 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  22
-
21- 
 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22- 
 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  24
-
23- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the access to water supply and 
sanitation services in rural and urban communities throughout the Borrower’s territory.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage Infrastructure
1. 
Carrying out of investments in Participating Territorial Entities for purposes of, 
inter alia
:
(a)  rehabilitating, constructing and expanding secondary water and sewerage 
systems; (b) constructing water treatment plants, pumping stations and main collectors; 
(c)  constructing wastewater treatment infrastructure, including, 
inter alia,
 treatment 
plants and discharge infrastructure; (d) enabling participation of the Borrower’s private 
sector in the management of Participating Territorial Entities’ utilities; (e)  carrying out 
environmental and social assessments; (f) designing and implementing engineering plans 
for water and sanitation infrastructure work; (g) enabling participation of private sector 
consulting firms in the design of water and sanitation infrastructure projects; (h) 
providing technical assistance to bring Participating Territorial Entities’ utilities to 
reasonable levels of management, operational efficiency and financial viability; and  (i) 
resettling Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project.  
 
2. 
Provision of the necessary technical assistance and training for the strengthening 
of the capacity of MAVDT for the carrying out of the Project,  including the contracting 
of independent supervisors for the supervision of the works referred to in Parts A.1 (a), 
(b), and (c) of the Project. 
 
Part B
:
Program Management, Benchmarking, Monitoring and Evaluation
Provision of support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and 
implementation, including, 
inter alia
:
1.  
the strengthening of the capacity of MAVDT to comply with its responsibilities 
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;  
 
2. 
the provision of training to MAVDT and Participating Territorial Entities’ staff 
to enhance their knowledge of the Bank’s procurement and financial management 
policies and procedures;  
 
3. 
the carrying out of audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and 
 
Page  25
-
24- 
4. 
the carrying out of the evaluation and monitoring of the Project, including the 
monitoring and evaluation of the Participating Territorial Entities’ utilities performance. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2008. 
 
Page  26
-
25- 
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
August 15, 2012 
11% 
 
August 15, 2013 
11% 
 
August 15, 2014 
11% 
 
August 15, 2015 
13% 
 
August 15, 2016 
13% 
 
August 15, 2017 
13% 
 
August 15, 2018 
13% 
 
August 15, 2019 
11.5% 
 
August 15, 2020 
3.5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
Page  27
-
26- 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each amount. 
Page  28
-
27- 
SCHEDULE  4 
`
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
following additional procedures: 
 
Domestic Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Republic of 
Colombia. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract  may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Before issuing any invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish or cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank for approval, appropriate model 
bidding documents. Once approved by the Bank, the Borrower shall use, or cause to be 
used, said model bidding documents, as approved for bidding under the Project. Any 
change or departure from the model approved shall require Bank’s prior approval.  
 
(d) 
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, 
will be treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
Page  29
-
28- 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not be any 
requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any public 
registry, chamber of commerce or similar entity, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or to 
appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is awarded 
the corresponding contract.  
 
(e) 
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for the 
opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall coincide 
with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for bid submission 
stipulated in the bidding documents.
 
(f)  
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to 
the responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such 
determination shall be made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and 
evaluation criteria stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the 
amount or amounts of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or 
factors and the quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of 
determining the lowest evaluated bid shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding 
documents. For purposes of bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or 
amounts to be used as a factor shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the 
corresponding bid, including correction of arithmetic errors. 
 
(g) 
The provisions of paragraph 2.47 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, 
more specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are performing 
their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written authorization. Moreover, 
bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization as a condition to be entitled to 
bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply until the award of contract is notified to 
the successful bidder. Thereafter, confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid 
portions for which confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in 
question. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which meet the requirements for direct 
contracting referred to in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may, 
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
Page  30
-
29- 
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of a fixed budget in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1,  3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
Page  31
-
30- 
 
wb174951 
M:\COLOMBIA\WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT\WATER AND SANITATION LA-
FINAL.doc 
February 17, 2005 5:57 PM
 
