                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR1316




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72810)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 70.0 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                    FOR A

           WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

                                March 30, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective March 31, 2011)

               Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos (COP)
                    COP1.00 = US$ 0.000567
                   US$ 1.00 = COP 1,764.55

                         FISCAL YEAR
                     January 1 – December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACODAL     Colombian Association of Sanitary and Environmental Engineering
           (Asociación Colombiana de Ingeniería Sanitaria y Ambiental)
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
CAR        Autonomous Regional Corporation (Corporación Autónoma Regional)
CAT        Associative Work Cooperatives (Cooperativa Asociativa de Trabajo)
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CQ         Consultants’ Qu.alifications
CRA        Water Regulatory Commission (Comisión Reguladora de Agua)
DANE       Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadísticas
DAPSBA     Directorate of Potable Water and Basic Sanitation (Dirección de Agua
           Potable y Saneamiento Básico)
DDSS       Directorate of Sustainable Sector Development (Dirección de Desarrollo
           Sectorial Sostenible)
DNP        National Planning Department (Departamento Nacional de Planeación)
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FINDETER   Colombian Regional Development Bank (Financiera de Desarrollo
           Territorial)
FM         Financial Management
FMR        Financial Management Report
FNR        National Royalties Fund (Fondo Nacional de Regalías)
FONADE     Colombian Fund for Development Projects (Fondo Financiero de
           Proyectos de Desarrollo)
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICANH      Colombian Institute of Archaeology and History (Instituto Colombiano
           de Antropología e Historia)
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICV        Quality of Life Index (?ndice de la Calidad de Vida)
IDA        International Development Association
IDU        Colombian Urban Development Institute (Instituto de Desarrollo
           Urbano)
INCODER    Colombian Institute for Rural Development (Instituto Colombiano de
           Desarrollo Rural)
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISA        International Standards of Auditing
LA         Loan Agreement
LCR        Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCS        Least Cost Selection
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MAVDT      Ministry of Environment, Housing, and Regional Development
           (Ministerio de Ambiente, Vivienda, y Desarrollo Territorial)
MDG        Millennium Development Goal
NBI        Unmet Basic Needs (Necesidades Básicas Insatisfechas)
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NDP        National Development Plan
NGO        Non-Government Organization
NPV        Net Present Value
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
OP         Operational Policy
PAL        Labor Adaptation Program (Programa de Adaptación Laboral)
PME        Utility Modernization Program (Programa de Modernización
           Empresarial)
POI        Works and Investment Plan (Plan de Obras e Inversión)
PSP        Private Sector Participation
PVC        Polyvinyl Chloride
QAT        Quality Assurance Team
QBS        Quality Based Selection
O&M        Operational & Maintenance
RAS 2000   Technical Norms for the Water and Sanitation Sector (Reglamento
           Técnico del Agua Potable y el Saneamiento Básico de Colombia)
SAL        Structural Adjustment Loan
SBD        Standard Bidding Document
SIIF       National Integrated Financial Information System (Sistema Integrado de
           Información Financiera)
SIL        Sector Investment Loan
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
SRAP       Social Remedial Action Plan
SSPD       Superintendency of Public Enterprises (Superintendencia de Servicios
           Públicos Domiciliarios)
SSS        Single Source Selection
TA         Technical Assistance
TAL        Technical Assistance Loan
UfW        Unaccounted for Water
WSS        Water Supply and Sanitation


                   Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
                 Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                  Sector Manager: Greg Browder (Acting)
             Project Team Leader: Taimur Samad
                ICR Team Leader: Carmen Yee-Batista
                                   COLOMBIA
                      WATER AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT




A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 42
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 48
Annex 10. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................... 49
Annex 11. Map IBRD 39061 ........................................................................................ 61
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Water And Sanitation
Country:                Colombia                Project Name:             Sector Support Project
                                                                          1st APL
Project ID:             P082973                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72810
ICR Date:               03/29/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 70.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 70.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 70.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Housing and Territory
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        12/16/2003    Effectiveness:          08/31/2005           08/31/2005
Appraisal:             10/04/2004    Restructuring(s):                            04/21/2009
Approval:              03/22/2005    Mid-term Review:        01/30/2008           02/07/2008
                                     Closing:                04/30/2009           03/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      4                     2
Sewerage                                                              48                  30
Water supply                                                          48                  68


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Corporate governance                                                  17                  5
Pollution management and environmental health                         17                  10
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                  35
Urban services and housing for the poor                               33                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Greg J. Browder                      John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:       Taimur Samad                         David N. Sislen
ICR Team Leader:           Carmen Rosa Yee-Batista
ICR Primary Author:        Carmen Rosa Yee-Batista
                           Carlos A. Uribe


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project aims to improve the provision of water supply and sanitation services in
Colombia in a financially efficient and sustainable manner through the provision of
capital investment subsidies for poverty-focused coverage expansion and service quality

                                                  ii
improvement. The Project will (a) scale-up the involvement of the private sector in
medium-sized cities through the introduction of performance-based management
arrangements with specialized operators; (b) support service-improvement related
investment through targeted capital grants in small, medium, and large urban areas served
by public utilities; and (c) deliver appropriate water supply and sanitation investments in
Colombia underserved rural areas.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                               documents)           Values       Target Years
                  1.2 million consumers (especially the poor) receive improved access to reliable
Indicator 1 :
                  and safe water supply and sanitation services.
Value
quantitative or 0                           1,200,000                        1,520,554
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                    04/30/2009                       02/04/2012
                There were 1,520,554 people receiving WSS where the infrastructure was
Comments
                upgraded under the project. The extent to which infrastructure improvements
(incl. %
                enhance access to reliable and safe WSS is unclear since a M&E system wasn't
achievement)
                defined at the subproject level

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     10 new private sector transactions using the "modernization" framework.
Value
(quantitative     0                         10                                 10
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                04/30/2009                         02/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved by 100 percent
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     760,000 consumers receive improved water supply services.
Value
(quantitative     0                         760,000                            1,152,027
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                04/30/2009                         02/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 152 percent.
achievement)

                                                 iii
Indicator 3 :     40,000 new consumers connected to urban water supply networks.
Value
(quantitative     0                          40,000                               44,205
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                 04/30/2009                           02/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved 111 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Improved sewerage services benefiting 340,000 consumers.
Value
(quantitative     0                          340,000                              239,200
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                 04/30/2009                           02/04/2012
Comments
                  This indicator was not achieved. The value is expected to reach 369,200
(incl. %
                  customers by mid 2012 when pending projects are completed.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     60,000 new consumers connected to urban sewerage networks.
Value
(quantitative     0                          60,000                               25,773
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                  04/30/2009                        02/04/2012
Comments          This indictor was not achieved. This result is understandable given that the first
(incl. %          priority for operation and customers in a constrained economic environment is
achievement)      water supply.
                  Basic water and sanitation services improved for 20,000 beneficiaries in 20 rural
Indicator 6 :
                  areas.
Value
                                             20,000 people in                     59,349 people in 57
(quantitative     0
                                             20 rural areas                       areas
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                 04/30/2009                           02/04/2012
Comments
                  Population target was achieved by 297 percent and number of rural areas was
(incl. %
                  achieved by 285 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     40 utilities enter into programs for technical assistance/institutional reforms.
Value
(quantitative     0                          40                                   53
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/15/2005                 04/30/2009                           02/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved by 133 percent.
achievement)
                  Unaccounted for water reduced by 5% in municipalities which enter into
Indicator 8 :
                  programs for institutional development.
Value
(quantitative   0                            5%                                   9%
or Qualitative)
                                                                                  02/04/2012
Date achieved 02/15/2005                     04/30/2009


                                                   iv
Comments
                Achieved. Losses reduced by 9% in three municipalities that included UfW
(incl. %
                program under an operational condition.
achievement)
                Collection ratios improved by 5 percentage points in municipalities which enter
Indicator 9 :
                into programs for institutional development.
                                                                            Based on a sample
                                                                            of 11 subprojects,
Value                                                                       the collection ratios
(quantitative   0%                                            5%            improved by 6% in
or Qualitative)                                                             four subprojects
                                                                            and worsened in
                                                                            seven.
Date achieved 02/15/2005                    04/30/2009                      02/04/2012
Comments
                This indicator was not achieved. None of the Bank-financed subprojects has a
(incl. %
                collection ratio condition.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : The MAVDT has established sufficient internal institutional capacity (yes/no).
Value
(quantitative   N/A                         Yes                             Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                    04/30/2009                      02/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                80% of subprojects, on an annual basis, are being implemented according to
Indicator 11 :
                schedule.
Value
(quantitative   0                           80%                             Not achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/15/2005                    04/30/2009                      02/04/2012
Comments
(incl. %        Not achieved. All subprojects experienced delays.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     05/02/2005         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/26/2006         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.00
  3     11/20/2006         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     6.35
  4     06/04/2007         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   24.57
  5     12/20/2007         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   24.73
  6     06/20/2008     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            70.00
                                                          Moderately
  7     12/09/2008     Moderately Satisfactory                                          70.00
                                                        Unsatisfactory


                                                 v
  8   04/28/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   70.00
  9   05/24/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   70.00
 10   02/12/2011       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          70.00
 11   08/02/2011       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          70.00
 12   12/28/2011       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory          70.00


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 04/21/2009               MS     MS          70.00




I. Disbursement Profile




                                             vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. At the time of appraisal, Colombia had made impressive progress in the expansion of water supply
and sanitation (WSS) services in urban areas achieving coverage levels of 97 percent for water and 90
percent for sewerage. However, in peri-urban and rural areas about 50 percent of the drinking water was
below standard levels, sewerage facilities were inadequate, less than 10 percent of the domestic
wastewater was treated, supply was intermittent and rationing was common, and water and sanitation
coverage in rural areas was 55 percent and 15 percent respectively.

2. Colombia has struggled for years to provide WSS services throughout its 1,122 small, relatively poor
and geographically scatter municipalities. After financial difficulties and poor results from the traditional
service model that prevailed during most of the 20th century, Colombia initiated a series of institutional
reforms in the 1990’s aimed at incorporating market economy elements and strengthening the business
capacities of the service providers in order to deliver sustainable, high quality service to Colombia’s
underserved population. 1 , 2 The main characteristics of the reforms included: (i) decentralization of
public service provision supported by a shift in responsibility from the Government to public or private
companies and by the creation of the General Revenue-Sharing System, a tax-sharing mechanism to
transfer resources from the Government to the municipalities; (ii) establishment of Public Services
Companies (ESP) as the entity that would provide public services with the possibility of being municipal-
owned, private, or mixed; and (iii) the separation of policy-making, regulation and operation functions,
recognizing the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Regional Development (MAVDT, currently the
Ministry of Housing, City and Territory) as the sector policy maker, the Commission for the Regulation
of Water Supply and Sanitation (CRA) as the independent regulator, and the Superintendency of
Residential Public Services (SSPD) as the overseer and inspector of service providers.3

3. In 2002, the Government of Colombia allocated US$500 million to support the financing of
investment projects in an array of sectors, including transport, health education, water and sanitation and
tourism, to meet development needs and extend the reach of the State to municipalities that had not
received public investments for decades because of the guerrilla violence. To determine the investment
priorities, the Government conducted Audiencias Públicas, public consultation activities, in
municipalities, throughout the country that determined the National Planning Department’s (DNP)
allocation of funds by sectors and municipalities. As a result, the Government launched a water public
works program (the Program) to channel capital grant resources to improve the access to and quality of
WSS services in municipalities. The Program was estimated to cost US$180 million, and the Government
requested support from the World Bank to finance part of the Program.




1
  Water supply and sanitation services were provided by public companies in large and some medium-sized cities and in the rest of the
municipalities by the National Government through local administrators.

2
    World Bank, Charting a New Course: A Structural Reforms in Colombia’s Water Supply and Sanitation Sector, 2010

3
  In 2001 the Ministry of Environment, Housing and Regional Development was divided into the Ministry of Environment and Sustainable
Development and the Ministry of Housing, City and Territory. The Vice-Ministry of Water (Project’s implementing agency) is currently housed
under the Ministry of Housing, City and Territory.



                                                                       1
4. The Bank was well positioned to support the Program. The Bank was working on the Water Sector
Reform Assistance Project (7077-CO), which developed the private sector participation model that the
Government sought to expand. The Bank had also had experience in policy-based and technical
assistance lending that supported broader sector reform. In addition, the Program was fully consistent
with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) objectives of “Achieving Sustainable Growth? and
“Improving Infrastructure Services.?

5. The Bank-financed Water and Sanitation Sector Support Project (the Project) was the first phase of
the Adaptable Program Loan (APL1) to support Colombia’s objective of investing in needed
infrastructure and building necessary institutional, monitoring, and oversight capacity. The Project
originated from the Government’s public works program, which was based on the Audiencias Públicas
and did not emphasize institutional reform. The APL anticipated including broader strategic water reform
activities in future phases. The reform activities included in this Project were envisioned as a first step
towards to the provision of effective, efficient and sustainable WSS services to Colombia’s underserved
population. At appraisal, the total Project cost was US$93.4 million with an IBRD loan of US$70 million.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6. According to the PAD, the PDO aimed “to improve the provision of water supply and sanitation
services in Colombia in a financially efficient and sustainable manner through the provision of capital
investment subsidies for poverty-focused coverage expansion and service quality improvement.?
Specifically, “the Project will (a) scale-up the involvement of the private sector in medium-size cities
through the introduction of performance-based management arrangements with specialized operators; (b)
support service-improvement related investment through targeted capital grants in small- and medium-
size cities, and in some high poverty peri-urban areas of large cities served by public utilities; and (c)
deliver appropriate water supply and sanitation investments in Colombia’s underserved rural areas.? The
PDO indicator is that 1.2 million consumers (especially the poor) receive improved access to reliable and
safe water supply and sanitation services. Annex 2 of the PAD includes a results framework with five
intermediate results and 11 intermediate indicators. The PDO in the Loan Agreement (LA) was “to
improve the access to water supply and sanitation services in rural and urban communities throughout the
Borrower’s territory.?

7. Both PDOs include improve access to WSS services in rural and urban communities; however, “in a
financially efficient and sustainable manner? is not included in the LA. The ICR considers that the LA
PDO is more aligned with the Project’s design. The accomplishment of institutional reform activities are
considered process indicators, which are paving the way to a more efficient and sustainable sector.

8. This ICR will assess the following outcomes: (i) improve access to WSS services in rural and urban
communities with focus on the poor and (ii) contribute to a financially efficient and sustainable water
sector. The PAD results frameworks will be used to measure these two outcomes in Section 3 of the ICR.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
    reasons/justification. The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9. The primary target group was a population of approximately 1.2 million people in low-income rural
and urban communities who needed improved WSS services. According to the PAD, the Project targeted




                                                    2
poor beneficiaries who were classified by Colombia’s national tariff system as Strata 1, 2, and 3.4 Among
the estimated beneficiary population, the Project included an underserved population of 284,000, who
would gain new water and sanitation benefits.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10. The project components, as presented in the Loan Agreement, are summarized below.

Component A: Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage Infrastructure. This component is divided in
two parts. Part A1: Carrying out of investments in Participating Territorial Entities for purposes of, inter
alia: (i) rehabilitating, constructing and expanding secondary water and sewerage systems; (ii)
constructing water treatment plants, pumping stations and main collectors; (iii) constructing wastewater
treatment infrastructure, including, inter alia, treatment plants and discharge infrastructure; (iv) enabling
participation of the Borrower’s private sector in the management of Participating Territorial Entities’
utilities; (v) carrying out environmental and social assessments; (vi) designing and implementing
engineering plans for water and sanitation infrastructure work; (vii) enabling participation of private
sector consulting firms in the design of water and sanitation infrastructure projects; (viii) providing
technical assistance to bring Participating Territorial Entities’ utilities to reasonable levels of management,
operational efficiency and financial viability; and (xi) resettling Affected Persons in connection with the
carrying out of Part A1 of the Project. Part A2: Provision of the necessary technical assistance and
training for the strengthening of the capacity of MAVDT for the carrying out of the Project, including the
contracting of independent supervisors for the supervision of the works referred to in Parts A.1 (i), (ii),
and (iii) of the Project.

Component B: Program Management, Benchmarking, Monitoring and Evaluation. Provision of
support for overall Project coordination, evaluation, supervision and implementation, including, inter alia:
(i) the strengthening of the capacity of MAVDT to comply with its responsibilities referred to in Section
3.06 of this Agreement; (ii) the provision of training to MAVDT and Participating Territorial Entities’
staff to enhance their knowledge of the Bank’s procurement and financial management policies and
procedures; (iii) the carrying out of audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and (iv) the carrying out
of the evaluation and monitoring of the Project, including the monitoring and evaluation of the
Participating Territorial Entities’ utilities performance.

1.6 Revised Components: The Project components were not formally revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

11. There were no significant changes in the design, scope, scale and implementation arrangements of the
Project; however, there were changes in the implementation schedule and funding allocations. The Project
underwent three level II restructurings, which extended the closing date by a cumulative period of 23
months. The extensions were necessary due to delays in subproject execution and disbursements as well
as issues with the management of social and environmental safeguards and the monitoring and evaluation
of the Project’s impacts. The Project restructurings also included (i) a consolidation of two loan proceeds
categories into one in order to simplify internal project accounting and (ii) a reallocation of loan proceeds
from Category 1 (investment) to Category 3 (project management) for the Borrower to conduct the Social


4
  Colombia’s national tariff system incorporates a built in poverty-focused cross subsidy, with the poor (Strata 1, 2 and 3) paying below cost-
recovery tariff levels, populations in Stratum 4 paying cost-recovery tariffs, and the wealthy (Strata 5 and 6) paying up to 120% o f the cost-
recovery tariff.



                                                                         3
Remedial Action Plan (SRAP) and the Project’s final evaluation. These changes did not adversely impact
or alter the project development objectives or the ability to achieve the objectives. The Loan Agreement
was amended to reflect these changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

12. The Bank utilized its extensive knowledge of the water sector in Colombia to perform a solid
background analysis for the Project. Two key lessons learned that contributed positively to the Project
were (i) linking investments with reform measures at a utility level to support institutional and financial
sustainability and (ii) establishing a clear and transparent institutional structure with defined procedures
for transferring resources between levels of government. The background analysis also identified the need
to work in small and medium-size municipalities where WSS needs were most urgent.

13. The PDO reflected WSS priorities identified by local governments, the national government and the
CPS. The component design was found to be adequate. First, the infrastructure component led to the
improvement of WSS services in 91 municipalities in 22 departments. Second, the Project linked capital
subsidies with various mechanisms for institutional improvements of service providers, including the
incorporation of private sector participation (PSP) in the management and operation of WSS services
through the Ministry’s Utility Modernization Program (PME or modernization) and targeted technical
assistances for small towns and rural communities where PSP is not likely to be adopted in the short-term.
Third, the institutional strengthening and capacity building component created to assist the Ministry
implement the Program was crucial to support the development of the Ventanilla Unica, a technical
screening and prioritization process to ensure that the subprojects selected were feasible and that social,
environmental and institutional aspects were adequately considered. The large number of subprojects (87
subprojects), the number of organizations involved (91 municipalities, 87 service providers, national
agencies, and contractors) and the geographic dispersion made this a very complex Program to coordinate.
Strengthening the Ministry’s capacity to set uniform rules of the game for the investment of water and
sanitation projects in the country was essential given the interagency coordinator role that it has played.

14. At the time of appraisal, the commitment from all levels of government was high. The Government
implemented sector reforms activities and allocated US$180 million to subsidize WSS projects. The
Uribe Administration actively participated in Audiencias Públicas, visiting municipalities throughout the
country and meeting with mayors, governors and local leaders in large public hearings to determine their
investment needs in order to distribute resources and identify projects that would be financed under the
Program.

15. The Project satisfactorily identified risks and mitigation measures at the time of appraisal. The PAD
identified potential technical weaknesses due to the lack of feasibility analysis from the Audiencias
Públicas process and projected coordination difficulties between the Ministry and other stakeholders due
to project complexity. To mitigate these risks the Ventantilla Unica was created with a statutory
designation of a law. The Project also included legal agreements between the Government and local
authorities that made compliance with technical, institutional, social and environmental aspects conditions
for capital resources for the water and sanitation works. The PAD identified implementation difficulties
as a high risk because of the complexity of the Project and the limited technical and management skills of
the Ministry at that time. In addition to strengthening the internal capacity of the Ministry, the operation
made the Colombian Fund for Development Projects (FONADE) an implementing partner to manage
day-to-day reporting and fiduciary tasks. Although the design features included in the Project were
crucial to mitigate the identified risk, the Project still suffered from implementation setbacks due to the


                                                     4
low capacity at the local level to manage contracts and apply social and environmental safeguards. This
weakness was not clearly identified and addressed during appraisal; the Project may have benefitted from
a more structured institutionalized arrangement of capacity building on project implementation and post-
construction support focused on low capacity municipalities and rural areas.

16. The Project was structured under an APL framework in order to continue supporting water and
sanitation investments and the water reform agenda. During implementation, however, the regulatory
framework and overall approached moved to the Planes Departamentales de Agua (PDA), a policy
complementary to the 1990 reforms that strengthened the roles of departments in the governance of the
water sector. As a result, the APL instrument became less relevant. The Bank and the Government moved
ahead with two stand-alone operations: the La Guajira Water and Sanitation Infrastructure and Service
Management Project in 2007 (P096965), a pilot project to support the implementation of PDA, and the
Solid Waste Management project in 2009 (P101279).

2.2 Implementation

17. The factors described below contributed to significant Project achievements in the provision of WSS
services (indicated in Section 3), and to problems that led to a 23 month extension of the Project closing
date, nine pending subprojects, and a reduced attention to supervision and documentation of institutional
reform outcomes.

18. Subproject preparation and screening. The Ministry evaluated subprojects presented by the
municipalities through the Ventanilla Unica process during their design stage. A large number of
subprojects had technical deficiencies and were returned to the municipalities for redesigning. The main
deficiencies were associated with limited technical and institutional capacity at the municipal level to
formulate projects, weak consultancy performance in the engineering studies and designs, and a lack of
comprehensive planning. Despite these setbacks, the Ventanilla Unica was a powerful tool because it
allowed the Ministry to detect issues early during the project cycle and to resolve them to ensure that the
works constructed fulfilled their objectives. Despite the overall effectiveness of the Ventanilla Unica,
some faulty subprojects were not detected and had to be corrected during construction.

19. Subproject implementation and arrangements. After the subprojects were approved, a complex
implementation arrangement to ensure adequate fiduciary management and project oversight of capital
funds was established. Under this arrangement, the municipalities executed the subprojects with the
participation of independent supervisors. The municipalities hired contractors for the execution of goods
and works using Bank Procurement guidelines and managed their corresponding contracts. FONADE,
with Ministry supervision, contracted independent supervisors and acted as a fiduciary agent disbursing
directly to the municipality contractors after approval from the independent supervisors. This
arrangement required some time to work effectively due to its complexity and weak capacity of the
municipal team to manage the procurement process. The consolidation of supervision and fiduciary
aspects in FONADE, however, allowed the Ministry to provide better project management controls,
technical assistance, and coordination with local authorities.

20. The subprojects were expected to be executed in 16 months, but the subprojects, on average, took 44
months to be executed. The primary cause was related to the inability of municipalities to obtain right of
way permits and acquire land in a timely manner. Other factors included suspension of contracts due to
design errors, contractor insolvency and delays in obtaining counterpart funds. The latter became an issue
when additional funds were required to cover project changes that were not accounted for in the allocation
of Government grants. Furthermore, implementation of some subprojects was delayed by severe rains in
2010-2011 that caused floods in several project areas.


                                                    5
21. Midterm evaluation. After the midterm evaluation, the Implementation Progress (IP) was
downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory. Suboptimal supervision of safeguards, slow disbursement and
legalization of funds, and shortcomings with the M&E reporting were identified as the main reasons for
the downgrading. The Ministry and the Bank agreed on a work program to resolve the midterm
evaluation findings. The work program was implemented, the IP rating was changed to satisfactory, and
the Ministry was able to disburse and legalize the entire loan amount of US$70 million.

22. Pending subprojects. While all Bank-financed activities are complete, there are nine subprojects in
which additional time is required for the expected results to be obtained. Seven subprojects are expected
to be in operation by mid-2012, and the Ministry has provided documentation indicating proper allocation
of funds and institutional commitment to have these subprojects functioning.5 One subproject in Malaga
will need about a year to be completed since a viaduct in Servita River was damaged by landslides during
the 2011 severe rainy season. The Santander PDA will finance the redesigning and construction of the
viaduct. In Santa Rosa, the water main connecting Santa Rosa with Cartagena was completed, but its
operation depends on the delivery of ACUACAR’s water (the water price is currently under negotiations
between Ministry and the District of Cartagena).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

23. M&E Design. This ICR takes into consideration that the PAD was written in 2004 and that there
have been subsequent changes in the Bank’s guidelines since. In addition, since the subprojects were not
defined at appraisal, the indicators and target values were selected based on an analysis of 37 subprojects
identified in the PAD, increasing the uncertainty of meeting target values.

24. The selected monitoring indicators reflected Project design and were appropriate to measure the
project development objective. The PAD results framework had two features that are included in the Bank
2010 Core Water Sector Indicators Framework, namely: (i) two indicators – people provided with access
to improved WSS and number of service providers supported by the Project, and (ii) distinctions between
rural and urban areas and improved access and new connections.

25. At the subproject level, objectives were centered on outputs (i.e. water and sanitation works) and
general performance outcomes were indicated, such as improved continuity or improved pressure. The
municipalities envisioned subprojects without a comprehensive diagnosis of the water and sanitation
systems, making it difficult to define appropriate baseline and target values.

26. M&E Implementation and Utilization. Three information systems were used to measure several
aspects of the project: (i) the PAD results framework; (ii) MAVDT’s monitoring system designed to track
specific subproject results and beneficiaries; and (iii) the FONADE information management system
(GEOTEC) designed to track works contracts and financial flows. The design proposal for each
subproject presented the number of beneficiaries calculated by the municipality using actual service area
numbers and projections from the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística (DANE).
During the mid-term review, the Bank and the Ministry conducted an extensive review of the PDO
indicators that helped clarify inconsistencies found in the population database. At the end of the Project,
the Ministry worked directly with field contractors to conduct a verification review of the population data,
which increased the data confidence level. The population data used in Section 3 of the ICR is the results


5
  In three subprojects (Reten, Sonson, and Tunja), client-financed activities under the Project are still being executed. Four subprojects (Regional
Fruticas, Aracataca, Zaragoza, and Fundación) are finished, but to have them in operation other complementary projects, which are in execution
need to be completed.



                                                                         6
of the verification review and represents actual population values. Despite the slow pace with updating
GEOTEC, FONADE’s information management system was a useful tool that provided a detailed
account of each subproject on a public website, adding transparency to the process and accessibility to the
stakeholders. The Ministry efficiently collected output data on the institutional strengthening activities
conducted for the participating service providers, but it encountered greater difficulty collecting data on
performance indicators since it depended more heavily on the municipalities’ willingness and capacity to
collect and send information. After the midterm evaluation, the Ministry attempted to collect performance
data through formal letters to the municipalities and service providers but had little success.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27. Safeguards Compliance: The Project triggered the Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Cultural
Property (OP 4.11), Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12), and Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10) safeguards.
During preparation the subprojects were not yet defined, so framework documents were prepared for
Indigenous Peoples, Involuntary Resettlement, and Environmental Assessment policies for a category B
project. The frameworks were developed to ensure compliance with national laws and Bank policies and
included procedures, instruments, and arrangements to support implementation and oversight.
Specifically, as part of the screening process conducted through the Ventanilla Unica program, the
Ministry took in consideration social and environmental criteria, requested environmental and social
management plans, and reviewed compliance with national environmental authorizations. To ensure
compliance during implementation, FONADE included standard environmental and social requirements
in construction contracts and municipality agreements and included oversight provisions in the
independent supervision contracts. Despite these efforts, the Bank team encountered weaknesses in the
application of safeguards, as a result of: (i) very little participation from municipal and regional
authorities; (ii) limited technical capacity on safeguards from contactors and independent supervisors; (iii)
insufficient number of professionals in MAVDT with competency on social and environmental project
management issues; and (iv) limited Bank supervision and lack of an M&E process to ensure that
safeguards activities are carried out at the beginning of the Project. During the midterm evaluation in
2007, the Bank team conducted a detailed safeguards evaluation with the following results.

28. Environment. The Bank team and the Ministry conducted audits for 18 subprojects under
construction and implemented an action plan which resulted in the following accomplishments: (i)
implemented environmental supervision templates to be used by FONADE and MAVDT field
supervisors; (ii) updated the subproject screening template to include sludge treatment and disposal from
water and wastewater treatment plant projects; (iii) revised the goods and works contracts to improve and
clarify the environmental and industrial safety provisions; (iv) held workshops for contractors,
construction supervision consultants, and local authorities; and (v) updated the potable water and basic
sanitation technical regulation to include environmental best management practices. No major
environmental impacts, serious accidents or complaints related to environmental work within the
subprojects were recorded.

29. Social safeguards. The midterm review revealed substantive and procedural issues in the application
of involuntary resettlement and indigenous peoples policies. The Ministry contracted three social experts
to conduct field evaluations and to design and implement, in close collaboration with the Bank, a remedial
action plan for each subproject that needed attention. The SRAP was approved on April 28, 2010 and
contained specific actions for subprojects involving land acquisition, easements, resettlement, and
indigenous peoples. At project closing, a final report concluded that all activities that fell under the
Ministry’s responsibility (i.e. providing technical assistance to the municipalities and documenting legal




                                                     7
and administrative procedures) were completed and that a high percentage of cases were resolved.6 The
SRAP, however, is not complete as the resettlement of two families in the Municipality of Neiva and the
legalization of 23 parcels and 84 easements are currently in progress. Full conformity is not realistic in the
short term as most parcels and easements cases are entangled in legal and administrative procedures. The
Bank will continue supervising the Borrower’s progress towards completing these remaining cases.

30. The ICR notes a strong commitment and dedication from the Ministry and close supervision and
guidance from the Bank staff after the midterm evaluation to resolve these issues. Since the midterm
evaluation, the Ministry has been more diligent during project screening and supervision to ensure that
subprojects presented by their municipalities comply with national laws indicating an increased capacity
at the national and local level to manage environmental and social issues. The Project closed with an ISR
rating of satisfactory for safeguards.

31. Financial Management and Procurement. Financial management (FM) arrangements were
satisfactory throughout project implementation. The FM assessed risk as substantial due to the complexity
of the project, which involved activities countywide. Audits and unaudited financial reports were received
by their due dates. The external auditors issued unqualified opinion (without exception) on the project
financial statements for the audit periods 2006 to 2011, and MAVDT implemented their
recommendations in a timely manner. The final audit report, for the period from January 1, 2010 to March
2011, disclosed internal control issues that were incorporated in an action plan being implemented by the
Ministry7. Because of outstanding advances in the amount of US$6.5 millions for contracts whose works
and supervision services could not be completed by the project closing date, the MAVDT substituted
them with project expenditures paid with counterpart funds. Bank found the substituted expenditures
eligible for financing under the loan.

32. The Project’s procurement performance was rated as satisfactory in the ISR throughout the life of the
Project and there were no cases of misprocurement. At the beginning of the Project, the procurement
process conducted by the municipalities encountered challenges and setbacks. In response, the Ministry
hired a procurement specialist to closely guide and review the procurement process, and the Bank also
provided closer supervision and assistance. The decentralization of procurement responsibility was only
possible due to the technical support and supervision provided by MAVDT and FONADE, which trained
the municipalities and oversaw the procurement process. One post review indicated shortcomings by
FONADE in the selection of consulting firms due to limited capacity to review the large number of
contracts. After the post review recommendations, FONADE and the Ministry resolved the issues
identified and the following post review was rated highly satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33. After subproject completion, the municipalities will remain responsible for investments and all
aspects of local utility management, including tariff setting, billing, collection, and operation and
maintenance (O&M). This is in line with the Colombia Public Service Provision law in which the
municipalities are responsible for ensuring that their inhabitants are provided with efficient domestic
WSS services by public companies. The Project provided technical assistance and supported the


6
  A Bank review showed that the Ministry completed 80 out of 103 parcels (80 percent compliance) and 1,093 out of 1,177 easements (93 percent
compliance) satisfactorily. A Bank review and a safeguards report prepared by the Ministry are in included in the Project files.

7
  Control issues included (a) the information system SIGEVAs was not being fully updated and implemented by the VAS’ users; (b) the need to
create back-ups of the project financial and monitoring information; and (c) subprojects with fiduciary agreements pending of liquidation and/or
incomplete works for some of the subprojects inspected by the auditors.



                                                                        8
introduction of private operators and public companies, which helped increase the level of institutional
and operational performance of service providers. Moreover, through capital grants the Project allowed
service providers to increase service quality thus improving cost recovery opportunities. There are
incentives in place under the current policy framework to meet institutional reform in order to access
Government Programs and capital funds. Furthermore, the SSPD provides an oversight and monitoring
of service providers.

34. Despite the Project’s contributions and Colombia’s solid water policy, Colombia faces challenges
related to the performance of service providers in small towns and rural areas. To that end, the
Government created the PDA to expand private sector participation and improve service in smaller
municipalities by strengthening the roles of departments in the governance of the water sector. The PDA
approach is being implemented in several departments, and in 2007 the Government assigned US$500
million for the sector to be implemented under the PDA framework. The Ministry continues to work on
improving this model, and the Bank continues supporting this effort by sharing experiences from La
Guajira project and from the Water Sector Reform Assistance project. The Bank is conducting an in depth
study (Specialized Water Operators in Colombia, SFLAC TF098814) of the Water Sector Reform
Assistance project that focuses on improving the incentives of private operators to access less developed
service providers, which is expected to be of great assistance to the Government’s sector policies and
initiatives.

35. Since 1988, the World Bank has supported Colombia through advisory work, capacity building, and
lending services that have contributed to significant sector improvements. There is a need for further
financial support in the sector, especially to improve the quality of service in small cities, access in rural
areas, and wastewater management. Based on the Bank and Colombia’s long-term partnership and the
Bank’s extensive knowledge of the sector, the ICR team recommends that the Bank engage with the
Government to discuss and develop possible options for a new operation that is aligned to the sector’s
needs and reflects the lessons learned during recent operations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

36. The Project is relevant to current national priorities and the Bank assistance strategy. The
Government of Colombia continues to place a strong emphasis on improving WSS services and retaining
central elements of the previous administration’s water policy and program.8 The recent CPS 2012-2016
was designed to support Colombia’s NDP. The Project directly supports the CPS goals of “Improved
Sustainable Urban Development? and “Improved Environmental Management and Climate Change
Resilience.? The CPS also highlights the need to improve multi-city service quality, improve access in
rural areas and small towns, and dramatically improve wastewater management. Institutional and policy
improvements continued public investments and efforts to promote and attract private sector participation
will help Colombia overcome these challenges. The ICR rates the relevance of the Project as substantial
because of the close alignment of the Project with Colombia’s development priorities and the CPS.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives




8
    As indicated in the current National Development Plan (NDP) 2010-2014, “Prosperity for All?.



                                                                        9
37. The project performance indicators proposed in the PAD Results Framework, along with their
original targets and achievements at project completion are shown in Table 1. Data to track progress in
achieving the objectives was produced by the MAVDT’s monitoring system. The population numbers
were obtained from the subprojects’ design information and were updated and verified by project
engineers and field contractors after project completion. The population data represents the actual
population estimated when subprojects were commissioned. This section discusses the outcome results
and briefly presents causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 2.
The actual Project cost is US$ 107.1 million with a loan of US$70 million and a counterpart contribution
of US$37.1 million, 56 percent higher than expected.

Table 1. Summary of PDO Indicator and Efficacy Rating.9
             PDO                                      Indicators                            Target       Value        % of        Rating
                                                                                            Value        March       Target
                                                                                                         2012       Achieved
                                 Improved Access: Number of People
                                 Reached (Water Supply, Urban)                             760,000      1,152,027     152
                                 New Access: Number of People Reached
                                 (Water Supply, Urban)                                      40,000       44,205       111
 Improved access to
WSS services in rural            Improved Access: Number of People
                                 Reached (Sanitation, Urban)                               340,000      239,200       70
      and urban                                                                                                                 Substantial
  communities with               New Access: Number of People Reached
  focus on the poor.             (Sanitation, Urban)                                        60,000       25,773       43
                                 Access WSS Rural: Number of People                         20,000       59,349       297
                                 Access WSS Rural: Number of Areas
                                                                                               20          57         285
                                 Reached
                                 Number of new private sector transactions
                                 using modernization framework                                 10          10         110
                                 Number of public utilities enter into
                                 programs of technical                                         40          53         138
                                 assistance/institutional reforms1
   Contributed to a              Unaccounted for water (UfW, losses)
 financially efficient           reduced in selected municipalities.2                         5%          9%          180
                                                                                                                                  Modest
and sustainable water            Collection ratios improved in selected                                               Not
        sector                   municipalities.2                                             5%         Note 3
                                                                                                                    achieved
                                 MAVDT has established sufficient internal
                                 institutional capacity                                       Yes         Yes         100
                                 Subprojects are being implemented                                                    Not
                                 according to schedule.                                       80%         None
                                                                                                                    achieved
1.Only refers to public utilities that did not participate in the modernization program.
2.Selected municipalities corresponds to those that participated in the institutional development program that had UfW as an operational
condition.
3. Values were difficult to obtain since none of the Bank-financed subprojects had a collection ratio condition as part of the institutional
development program. However, based on a sample of 11 subprojects, the collection ratios improved by 6 percent in four subprojects and
worsen in seven.




9
    The table below presents a streamlined version of the indicators presented in Annex 2 of the PAD.



                                                                        10
PDO: Improved access to WSS services in rural and urban communities with focus on the poor

38. The Project directly targeted the poor by heavily weighting poverty levels using the Colombia’s
national tariff system in the subprojects screening process through the Ventanilla Unica and during the
allocation distribution at the National level after the Audiencias Públicas. As indicated by the PAD, all
subprojects were directed to low income, small municipalities, rural areas, and poor areas within
intermediate cities. Results of the evaluation carried out during project preparation and the final
independent project evaluation showed that nearly 100 percent of the potential direct beneficiaries lived
within Stratas 1, 2, and 3, which are considered poor in Colombia. Based on a desktop evaluation, the
Project effectively targeted small and medium sized municipalities: 32 subprojects were in municipalities
with a population ranging from 12,500 to 70,000, 42 subprojects in municipalities with less than 12,500
people, 15 subprojects in rural areas, and only 12 subprojects had municipalities with more than 70,000.

39. The Project directly improved access to WSS services to 1.5 million customers located in urban and
rural communities through the provision of capital investment subsidies. The Project financed a total of
87 subprojects, benefitting 91 municipalities distributed throughout 22 departments. Figure 1 indicates
the number of subprojects based on the type of benefits. The water supply works included rehabilitation
and construction of water networks, intake structures, pump stations, and water treatment plants. Most of
the sewerage improvement works were centered on rehabilitating and expanding sewer networks and to a
minor extent the construction of wastewater treatment plant (the Project only financed four WWTPs).

Figure 1. Number of Subprojects versus Type of Benefit




40. The Project exceeds the target values for water supply and rural areas; however, the sewerage
indicators were not achieved. The improved access sewerage indicator is expected to reach target by mid-
2012. This result is understandable given that the first priority for operators and customers in a
constrained economic environment is water supply. The ICR rates the access part of the PDO as
substantial.

PDO: Contributed to a financially efficient and sustainable water sector

41. The Project contributed to a financially efficient and sustainable water sector and supported the water
sector institutional reform by enabling participation of the private sector in water services management,

                                                    11
providing technical assistance to less developed service providers, and by incorporating institutional
reform and performance conditions in the investment agreements between the Ministry and the
municipalities. As a result, the Project introduced 10 specialized operators in 28 municipalities through
the PME program. Five of the 10 private operators operate on a regional level contributing to the
Ministry’s initiative of consolidating service areas to increase efficiency. Overall the PME is considered
a success in Colombia based on its capacity to improve WSS service in low-income cities by
transforming deficient public operators into customer-oriented, efficient and sustainable providers.10 For
small municipalities and rural communities that chose not to participate in the modernization process, the
Project provided targeted technical assistance and institutional reform activities based on the utility level
of institutional and financial development. These activities included, among others, assisting in the
creation of public companies, conducting tariff structuring studies, strengthening commercial
management systems, and promoting programs for the reduction of non-revenue water. There were 53
service providers that participated in technical assistance and institutional reform activities exceeding the
target value for that indicator. As result of the institutional strengthening activities, 19 public companies
were created, 18 received targeted technical assistance on water enterprise aspects, and five achieved
performance-related conditions. While the unaccounted for water (UfW) losses were met in the
municipalities that had this indicator as a condition, the collection ratio was not achieved from the sample
data.

42. Another aspect of the water sector reform was to build a strong central coordination institution for
sector development. In that sense, the Ministry has increased its institutional and project management
capacity through the execution of the Government Program, which included the 87 Bank-financed
subprojects and 269 subprojects financed directly by the Government and municipalities. The Ministry
increased its staff from 5 to 30, designed instruments and procedures to ensure a transparent process in the
transfer of subsidies, and acted as an effective interagency coordinator at the national and local levels.
The Ministry with the assistance of FONADE supervised 356 subprojects, managed technical and
fiduciary aspects satisfactorily, gained extensive knowledge on social and environmental safeguards, and
effectively responded to unforeseen difficulties. The implementation setbacks did not allow the Ministry
to achieve the Project’s schedule indicator; however, the achievements the Ministry made in light of the
geographic dispersion and complex implementation arrangements are noteworthy.

43. Although most of the indicators were achieved, the ICR rates the second part of the PDO as modest
based on the lack of performance and quality data to evaluate the component outcomes, few resources
allocated to the local institutional strengthening considering the vast needs in small municipalities, and
limited oversight due mainly to encounter setbacks with the water and sanitation works. The Project
spent US$ 500,000, or 20 percent of the estimated cost assigned at project appraisal, for the institutional
strengthening activities directed to municipalities and water companies.

3.3 Efficiency

44. Efficiency was built into the Project with the application of the Ventanilla Unica since it provided a
mechanism to screen out projects that were not economically feasible by comparing proposed subprojects
with unit costs per connection. Furthermore, technical feasibility was evaluated based on the application
of appropriate WSS solutions using Colombia’s technical norm for water and sanitation. Overall the
application of the Ventanilla Unica was successful; however, some faulty subprojects were not identified
due mainly to the large number of proposals evaluated.


10
  Resuls of the PME have been document in 7077-CO ICR report and in the Bank publication, Charting a New Course: Structural Reforms in
Colombia’s Water Supply and Sanitation



                                                                  12
45. The ex-ante internal economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated based on a sample of 6 subprojects
(3 rural and 3 urban) selected during preparation, with an ERR ranging from 16.5 to 203 percent and a net
present value (NPV) ranging from US$94,400 to US$1.4 million. The ICR team conducted a cost-benefit
analysis for six subprojects (2 rural and 4 urban) that represented different project types and regions.11
Based on this sample, the ICR estimates an ERR range from 23 to 57 percent and a NPV from USD
159,000 to 17 million, showing results higher than those estimated at appraisal. All subprojects in the ICR
sample with the exception of Chiriguana wastewater are economically beneficial with an ERR higher that
20 percent. The poor results in Chiriguana, a rural, low-income community, are due to the high
investment cost for wastewater collection and treatment services and a technically and financially weak
service provider. At the time of the visit, the wastewater system was not in operation; the targeted
population was not connected to the system. The Ministry and the Municipality agreed on an action plan
to revert the situation that is currently under implementation. The Chiriguana case highlights the
difficulties many small municipalities face when they are responsible for the operation and maintenance
of wastewater systems and lack the technical, institutional and financial capacity necessary to sustain
them. The Project only financed four wastewater systems; therefore, the ICR considers that the five
subprojects with positive results are more aligned to the overall Project as rehabilitation and construction
of water mains, water treatment plants, and sewers were the core of the Project.

46. The economic study carried out during the ICR also showed that five service providers have increased
key operational and institutional indicators (revenue collection rate, operating income to operating cost,
UfW, and micro-metering). Please see Annex 3 for additional information on the economic and financial
analysis.

47. Another factor that affects the efficiency is the time it took to implement the project. The Project
took almost 2 years longer to complete, while the objectives and target performance indicators remained
the same. Despite the mentioned shortcomings, the ICR considers that the overall the Project benefits
exceed the costs associated with the Project and therefore rates efficiency as substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

48. The ICR rates the overall outcome of the Project as moderately satisfactory. Relevance of the
objectives and efficiency is rated substantial. While the objective related to improve access with focus on
the poor has substantially been achieved, the objective related to the reform aspects of the project has
been achieved modestly. The Project was and remains relevant to the Government’s priorities and has had
a positive impact on the lives of 1.5 million people who are now receiving improved WSS. The
introduction of private operators, the creation of public service providers, and the strengthening of the
Ministry contributed to the overall goal of more efficient and sustainable water systems. This assessment
is in line with an independent final project evaluation conducted by the Government of Colombia in
which, after an evaluation of the PAD results framework, it concluded that the Project achieved its
objectives satisfactorily. However, there were moderate shortcomings, including implementation
setbacks that caused a two year delay, lack of performance and quality indicators, and the Chiriguana
wastewater case.



11
   The subprojects included (i) the optimization of a water distribution system; (ii) the construction of a main sewer collector and household
connections; (iii) the construction of a new water supply system; (iv) the expansion of a water treatment plant and distribution networks; (v) the
optimization of a water surface intake system; and (vi) the construction of a new water and sewerage systems (collection and treatment).



                                                                        13
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

49. The Project has had a dramatic impact on poverty. Approximately 1.5 million low-income people
now have improved WSS services. In particular, the number of households connected to the water
distribution systems increased. Higher connection rates do not only imply greater convenience and access
to safe water, but also a reduction in the cost of water since people without access typically purchase
water from tankers. This is particularly true in Colombia where low-income households receive implicit
subsidies through lower utility tariffs. Employment derived from the large number of construction
contracts also had a poverty impact in remote areas where few avenues for regular employment exist.
These types of projects offer the local people an attractive employment opportunity.

(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening

50. The World Bank loan assisted the Ministry establish itself as the central coordinating institution for
water sector investments and development. Before the Project water sector development and investments
were unsystematic; there were many institutions involved that had overlapping functions and abided by
different “rules of the game? to access national funds. In the Project a publicly disseminated set of
procedures and instruments were designed and implemented to ensure the efficient and systematic use of
grant transfers. The same “rules of the game? were applied to the overall Program. The Ventanilla Unica
process has been extended to other programs in the Ministry creating a sensible and unified approach to
screening investments.

51. The Project helped build a base of private operators who had experience working with smaller
municipalities. The Project also supported the creation of public companies and cooperatives, a first step
in making water provision more efficient and sustainable in municipalities. Under the Project, there were
10 private sector, long-term concession contracts that helped widen and strengthen the pool of competent
operators in the sector. The stability afforded by the long-term concession contacts (approx. 10 years)
helped to break down the traditional short-term, political cycle dependent view of water service delivery
at the municipal level. The 19 public enterprises established under this Project mark an improvement for
local water management: financial accounting for water provision has been separated from other
municipality activities, a permanent organizational structure has been formed, and national grants and
programs sponsored by the Government are now more accessible.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

52. The Audiencias Públicas represent a concerted effort by the Uribe Administration to extend the reach
of the State to places that were not receiving public services due to decades of internal strife and violence.
This effort was part of the Uribe Administration’s Democratic Security Policy, which sought to increase
State presence by improving access to social services and supporting economic development in order to
break the cycle of guerrilla violence. Under that context, The Project contributed to the Democratic
Security Policy and the peace and prosperity process that is being consolidated under the current
administration.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

53. As part of the ICR preparation, a Bank mission visited six subprojects and conducted a stakeholder
workshop in which the Ministry, FONADE, DNP, and the consulting group that conducted the
independent evaluation participated. The main findings are reflected in this document, especially in the
implementation section. During the subproject visits, Project beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction


                                                     14
with the service improvements. Nevertheless, stakeholders also identified institutional and administrative
deficiencies, particularly in small municipalities.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

54. To rate the risk to development outcome, the ICR considers the service providers’ capacity to operate
and maintain the installed water and sanitation works and the policies currently in place to support sector
development. The evaluation of utility capacity is based on the experience and knowledge the Bank team
has on the water sector in Colombia. The subprojects are classified based on their risk levels to sustain the
investments, as shown in Table 2. The results indicate that 39 subprojects have a low risk, 40 moderate
risk, and eight significant risk. The total Project risk is considerate moderate. Annex 10 presents a more
detailed evaluation.

Table 2. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Characteristics                                                                                          # of            Level of
                                                                                                       subproj.           Risk
Public companies in intermediate cities (pob >70,000) are usually known                                   11              Low
to be more efficient and reliable and are more accessible to oversight and
regulatory mechanisms.
Public or private operators in medium and small municipalities that are                                   10                   Low
known to be running efficient and reliable operations.
Public companies that have introduced private operators under the Project                                 18                   Low

Recently created cooperatives and public enterprises under the Project                                    19             Moderate
Public companies that participated in the institutional program                                           15             Moderate
Public companies that had good institutional indicators at the beginning                                  6              Moderate
of the Project
Projects run directly by municipalities that did not link an operator                                     8a            Significant
Total                                                                                                     87             Moderate
a. Three subprojects did not create public companies because they decided to join the PDA.

55. Colombia has a comprehensive water policy that separates service provision from policy-making,
promotes private sector participation, and provides regulation and oversight. However, small
municipalities and rural communities (with low and moderate risk levels) still have weak operational and
institutional indicators. These weaknesses can be attributed in part to the complexity of the local
institutional structures and the atomization of service providers outside large urban areas. These have
prevented the providers from benefiting from economies of scale and have limited the national
government’s ability to promote policy incentives. The weak local capacity became apparent during
Project implementation, in particular with project designs and the handling of safeguards and construction
permits, as well as during project completion in the case of the Chiriguana project and other two
subprojects (Canalete and San Pelayo) visited by the independent evaluator.

56. The Government is promoting PDAs to accelerate expansion of coverage and improve the quality of
service by: (i) improving coordination and providing technical assistance at the department level; (ii)
formulating and promoting comprehensive investment plans with a regional impact; (iii) reducing
fragmentation by utilizing economies of scale; and (iv) creating conditions for the entrance of specialized
                                    12
operators in smaller municipalities. There are six subprojects under the Project that have entered into a


12
     The World Bank Group, Charting a New Course: Structural Reforms in Colombia’s Water Supply and Sanitation Sector, 2011.


                                                                     15
PDA, and it is expected that more municipalities involved in the Project will become part of this
framework.13 Despite the strong policy support from the National Government and the positive results
of some PDAs, the PDA is a fairly new policy framework that still needs to demonstrate its overall
achievements and therefore the ICR rating continues to be moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57. The Project design was well aligned with the Government’s priorities, incorporated lessons learned
from other operations, in particular the PME, and accurately identified main risks and included design
features to mitigate them. In particular, the Bank helped define the project review process (Ventanilla
Unica), link access to capital funds with institutional reform conditions and support the implementation
and oversight arrangement between MAVDT and FONADE. This contribution was not only applied to
the Bank-financed Project but to the entire Audiencias Públicas Program, thus contributing to the overall
Program achievements and the government’s objective of having a centralized national agency to channel
investment funds to local authorities. The Ministry staff recognize the value added of the Bank’s
participation during preparation.

58. On the other hand, the Bank could have emphasized technical assistance for the weaker municipalities
to help them with the design of subprojects, project management and procurement aspects during
implementation, and operation of the WSS systems after construction. The Ministry also indicated that
more technical guidance on the application of social safeguards under the Project at all levels would have
helped them improve Project oversight. The discrepancy between the PAD PDO and the legal agreement
PDO is also seen as a shortcoming.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

59. The Bank provided considerable procurement, technical and managerial support to the MAVDT and
FONADE during Project implementation. The Bank regularly prepared aide-memoires and realistically
rated the performance of the project in the ISRs. The Bank conducted an extensive midterm review and
helped design and implement a comprehensive action plan to promote conformity with social safeguards.
The Bank team participated in approximately 13 missions, which included site visits by safeguards
specialists and engineers. The Bank’s input to improve the Ventanilla Unica process and the water and
sanitation norm were highly valued by the Ministry. The team could have provided closer supervision and
technical assistance of safeguard issues at the beginning of the Project. Nevertheless, during and after the
midterm review, the Bank proactively provided supports to address safeguard issues through guiding the
design of the Social Remedial Plan and providing oversight.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
60. Rating: The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as moderately satisfactory given that Bank
performance during preparation was moderately satisfactory and during implementation was satisfactory.


13
  A report by Union Temporal Centro Nacional de Consultoria-ECONOSUL states that the majority of the municipalities (61%) planned to take
part in the framework, or have already implemented a Plan Departamental.



                                                                   16
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61. The DNP and the Ministry demonstrated strong commitment and ownership of the Project by actively
participating in the allocation process of the Audiencias Públicas and the subsequent Project design.
MAVDT, with the assistance of FONADE, complied with Bank loan covenants and satisfactorily fulfilled
its fiduciary duties in a timely manner. Increasing the Ministry’s capacity by linking it with FONADE
worked particularly well because FONADE conducted the administrative and construction management
documentation and procurement of consultants and involved experienced construction supervisors.
MAVDT and FONADE’s efforts to follow up with the municipalities and to actively participate in
resolution processes that arose during construction were key to the Project’s success. MAVDT also
demonstrated a strong commitment, evident by the rigorous review exercise conducted by engineers, in
the implementation of the Ventanilla Unica. The large number of projects (approx. 550) and their
geographical dispersion, however, made it very difficult for engineers to visit the sites and validate the
information they had received. As a result, some faulty projects passed through the filter. The Ventanilla
Unica has improved based on lessons learned during this Project, and its application has been extended to
other Ministry programs. In addition, the government adopted a series of resolutions and decrees to
strengthen private sector participation and to incorporate environmental management in water and
sanitation norms.

62. A shortcoming of the Project was the lack of environmental and social specialists at the beginning of
the Project. After the midterm review highlighted this issue, the Ministry hired social specialists to design
and implement remedial action plans. Another shortcoming was the lack of technical assistance to the low
capacity municipalities during project preparation activities, such as design and engineering studies. In
addition, more follow-up and documentation of the institutional reform activities could have helped
evaluate the actual performance improvement of the service providers. A more specific M&E with
baseline and quality indicators could have also helped evaluate the investment outcomes.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63. The Project was primarily implemented by the service providers (municipalities), who were
responsible for executing the water and sanitation works. FONADE hired independent supervisors to
oversee the works and paid the municipal contractors that had been approved by the supervisors. As
expected, the performance of the operators varied considerably depending on the institutional capacity of
the service providers. Many local authorities did not have the capacity to handle construction
management issues. This incapacity led to significant delays in Project progress and difficulties in the
application of safeguards, but the authorities, for the most part, were able to overcome the challenges. On
the other hand, the increase of counterpart funds by US$13.3 million and the local authorities’ strong
commitment throughout the Project contributed to the overall achievement of the Project. FONADE and
the independent supervisors played an important role during the construction process, especially in the
redesigning of subprojects and in ensuring that the completed works followed all agreed upon standards.
Furthermore, FONADE managed an internet-based project information system that allowed stakeholders
to read detailed accounts of each of the subprojects. The internet-based information system assisted in
supervision of the Project and improved the Project’s transparency. The ICR rates FONADE performance
as satisfactory and the municipality performance as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance



                                                     17
64. Rating: The ICR rates the overall Borrower performance as moderately satisfactory given
that both Borrower and Implementing Agencies' performances are rated Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

65. The World Bank support for traditional public works project can add value in the context of a
broad strategic program. During preparation, the Government solicited financial support and technical
assistance from the Bank. The Bank played a critical role in helping the Government overcome
difficulties that arose from the Audiencias Públicas. Specifically, the Bank helped design a framework
around a national infrastructure program by (i) defining a technical screening and prioritization process,
(ii) linking access to capital funds with institutional reform conditions, and (iii) supporting the
implementation and oversight arrangement between MAVDT and FONADE. These features were
applied to the Bank-financed Project and the entire Audiencias Públicas Program. The continuous
engagement of the Bank through supervision was critical to ensure that the Project’s design features were
implemented and that safeguard policies were carried out. The Bank’s supervision also supported the
mainstreaming of the implementation model within the Ministry.

66. Targeted technical assistance to less developed service providers should be included during all
phases of project cycle. Implementation setbacks during the Project were mainly due to low capacity at
the municipal level to develop adequate engineering designs, to obtain construction permits, parcels, and
easements, and to provide additional funds in timely manner. Service providers with weak institutional
capacity also faced operational challenges. Projects should ensure that less developed service providers
have targeted technical assistance to improve project designs and implementation. Projects should also
consider post-construction assistance to ensure proper O&M and the consolidation of institutional reforms.

67. Incorporating water and sanitation system assessments and comprehensive planning into
demand-driven projects is essential. The subprojects were selected by the community to solve specific
problems. This demand-driven selection process resulted in a piecemeal operation with subprojects
financing components or parts of an overall system. Challenges to this approach included difficulties in
defining baselines and target quality indicators, a lack of coordination with components outside the
subproject that are needed to have the system in operation, and missed opportunities to identify more
efficient and cost-effective solutions. To that end, there is a need to include technical assistance and
policies that enable the execution of overall system assessments and planning in order to derive
investment projects.

68. Institutional strengthening activities for service providers need to include targeted performance
indicators and oversight. In an innovative approach to institutional reform, the Project linked
institutional reform activities with investments in works. The institutional reform related activities were
included as conditions in subproject contracts. As a result, 10 specialized operators and 19 public
companies were incorporated in the provision of WSS and technical assistance was provided to identify
municipalities to take steps to improve financial viability and accountability and strengthen operation and
implementation capacity. Performance indicators and results, however, were not adequately documented
during Project supervision. There is a need to improve internal capacities at the utility level to collect and
report performance indicators, as well as to increase oversight and technical assistance from the Ministry
and the Bank to better measure project results and extract lessons learned.

69. Decentralized implementation at the municipal level still requires strong support from the
national government. The Ventanilla Unica process, overall construction management oversight,
fiduciary management and technical assistance provided by the Ministry and FONADE were vital to
ensuring Project completion. The centralized structure provided clear and transparent rules of the game

                                                     18
and ongoing support to resolve difficulties. A strong, centralized institutional arrangement for
coordinating sector investments is necessary to support dispersed projects and implementers.

70. Social and environmental safeguard activities need to be integrated within overall project
implementation and supervision activities. The quality of preparation and attention to safeguards at
appraisal was reasonably good; however, the Project encountered safeguard issues due to the low capacity
at the local level and insufficient oversight. To that end, the Bank and Borrower need to ensure that
social and environment specialists are key members of the implementing unit, comprehensive training and
instruments (e.g. environmental management plans in construction and supervision contracts) are
specified and applied to all levels of the implementing structure (i.e. municipalities, construction
supervisors and Government), and that specific monitoring indicators are included and follow-up during
supervision.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Refer to Annex 7 for Borrower’s comments on Draft ICR




                                                  19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                                 Percentage of
               Components                 Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD
                                                                                  Appraisal
                                             millions)       millions)
1. Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage
                                               92.2           105.2
Infrastructure                                                                        114 
1.A.Water Supply and Sanitation
Infrastructure                                 81.6            94.3                   116 
1.B. Construction supervision
(interventorias) & Technical Assistance        8.0             10.4                   130 
1.C. Utility Reform & Development               2.6             0.5                    18 
2. Program Management, Benchmarking,
                                                1.2             1.5
Monitoring and Evaluation                                                             123 
2.A Consultants                                0.94            1.45                   155 
2.B Administrative Cost                        0.07           0.017                    25 
2.C Travel Expenses and per diems               0.2           0.017                    8 
                     Total Baseline Cost       93.4           106.7                   114
Physical Contingencies                          0.0             0.0
Price Contingencies                             0.0             0.0
                      Total Project Costs      93.4           106.7                   114
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.4             0.4
               Total Financing Required        93.8           107.1                   114



(b) Financing
                                          Type of    Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                                     Percentage of
            Source of Funds                 Co-      Estimate          Estimate
                                                                                      Appraisal
                                         financing (USD millions)   (USD millions)
 Borrower                                              23.8              37.1            156
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                        70.0             70.0            100
and Development
Total Financing Required                                93.8            107.1




                                                 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     Component A: Municipal Water Supply and Sewerage Infrastructure. The ouputs of this
component is presented in two parts: (i) water supply and sanitation works and (ii) institutional
strengthening for service providers.

2.      Water Supply and Sanitation Works. The Project directly improved the provision of water and
sanitation services to 1.5 million customers located in low-income areas. The Project financed a total of
87 subprojects, benefitting 91 municipalities distributed throughout 22 departments. There were 62
subprojects with only water supply works, 23 subprojects with only sanitation works and two subprojects
with both water supply and sanitation works. The water supply works included rehabilitation and
construction of water networks, intake structures, pump stations, and water treatment plants. Sanitation
works included rehabilitation, construction, and expansion of sewer networks and to a minor extent the
construction of wastewater treatment plant (the Project only financed four WWTPs). The Project
financed 15 subprojects in 59 rural areas and 72 subprojects in peri-urban and urban areas. The actual
infrastructure cost corresponds to 88 percent of total Project cost and the construction of supervision
contracts correspond to 10 percent of Project cost. Under this component, the Project contracted 92
construction contracts and 19 supervisors (interventores). The table below shows a summary of the
main investments.

Water and Sanitation Works.
               Water                       Units                 Sanitation                Units
  Water intakes                             15            Main sewer collectors           15.3 km
  Water Mains                             296 km          Sewer lines                      84 km
  Sand removal tanks                        16            Inspection Manholes               744
  Storage and distribution tanks            32            Household connections            26,377
  Pump stations                             13            New WWTP                           4
  New water treatment plants                12            Optimization WWTP                  1
  WTP rehabilitation/expansion              15
  Macro and micro meters              10 macro/5 micro
  Distribution networks                   269 km
  Household connections                   47,686

3.     A table at the end of this annex presents a description, main characteristics and beneficiaries for
each subproject. Data to track progress in achieving the objectives was produced by the MAVDT’s
monitoring system. The population numbers were obtained from the subprojects design information and
were updated and verified by the project engineers and field contractors at subproject completion. The
population data represents the actual population estimated when subprojects were commissioned. The
table below shows a summary of the number of people reached by the Project. The MAVDT’s
monitoring system and the database prepared by the Bank team for the ICR are saved in the project files
(WBdocs).




                                                   21
Summary
                               Pop.
                                             Pop.          Pop. New    Pop. New       Pop.
                 Total       Improved                                                          Pop.        # of
                                           Improved         Access      Access       Rural
                  Pop.        Access                                                           Rural      Rural
                                            Access          Water     Sanit. (Sew.   Water
                (Benef.)      Water                                                            Sanit.     Areas
                                             Sanit.         Supply      Conn.)       Supply
                              Supply
Total values
with all
subprojects
completed       1,808,057    1,312,176      369,200         44,205      25,773       52,191    11,556       59
Values with
subprojects
completed at
March 2011      1,513,510    1,152,027      239,200         44,205      25,773       47,793    11,556       57
Values of
pending
subprojects      294,547      160,149       130,000           0            0         4,398        0          2


 4.     Utility Institutional Strengthening. The Project included two mechanisms for institutional
 improvements of service providers: (i) the incorporation of private sector participation in the
 management and operation of WSS services through the Ministry’s Utility Modernization Program
 (PME or modernization) and (ii) targeted technical assistances for small towns and rural communities
 that chose not to participate in the PME process.

 5.     The Project introduced 10 specialized operators in 28 municipalities through the PME program.
 Five of the 10 private operators operate on a regional level contributing to the Ministry’s initiative of
 consolidating service areas to increase efficiency. Overall the PME is considered a success in Colombia
 based on its capacity to improve WSS service in low-income cities by transforming deficient public
 operators into customer-oriented, efficient and sustainable providers. The modernization approach
 included: (i) technical assistance to prepare and carry out the documentation and procedures for
 incorporating the private sector in the management of the WSS; (ii) support to mayors in convincing the
 main actors (mainly municipal councils, governors and state governments, business community,
 community representatives community organizations and NGOs) to accept PSP in the utilities; and (iii)
 financial support to cover a portion of the required infrastructure investments which the private sector
 cannot provide.

 6.       For small municipalities and rural communities that chose not to participate in the modernization
 process, the Project provided targeted technical assistance and institutional reform activities based on the
 utility level of institutional and financial development. During preparation three development levels were
 established to define what kind of technical assistance was more appropriate for each operator. The
 levels were based on two indicators: billing collection rate and account receivables comparator. The
 operators ranked in the lowest (first) level were eligible for capital funds only if institutional reform
 activities were included under the agreement. For the second level, capital funds had to come along with
 programs that helped to improve operational indicators. For the highest level, the operators did not have
 to undertake institutional development activities for accessing capital funds. There were 53 service
 providers that participated in technical assistance and institutional reform activities exceeding the target
 value for that indicator. The activities included, among others, assisting in the creation of public
 companies, conducting tariff structuring studies, strengthening commercial management systems, and
 promoting programs for the reduction of non-revenue water. As result, 19 public companies were created,
 18 received targeted technical assistance on water enterprise aspects, and five achieved operational

                                                      22
indicators (three companies had to lower water losses and two had to prepare water management plans
required by the SSPD). The 19 public enterprises established under this Project mark an improvement
for local water management: financial accounting for water provision has been separated from other
municipality activities, a permanent organizational structure has been formed, and national grants and
programs sponsored by the Government are now more accessible.

7.      Consulting services were contracted to assist in the creation of public companies, conduct tariff
structuring studies, and strength commercial management systems. The Project spent US$ 500,000, or 20
percent of the estimated cost assigned at project appraisal, for the institutional strengthening activities
directed to municipalities and water companies. A table at the end of Annex 10 indicates the type of
institutional strengthening condition applied to each subproject.

8.       Component B. Program Management, Benchmarking, Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project
financed consultant services and equipment to strengthen the capacity of Vice-ministry of Water to
implement and supervise the Project and provide technical assistance to the participating municipal
utilities. Activities financed under this Component included: (i) goods and consultant services to conduct
screening of subprojects, program implementation, evaluation and monitoring; (ii) to design and
implement the Social Remedial Action Plan; and (iii) to conduct the Project final evaluation. The
Project invested US$ 1.5 million on this component.




                                                   23
Abbreviations: URB: Urban; R: Rural; WS: Water Supply; S: Sanitation; WTP: Water Treatment Plant; WWTP: Wastewater Treatment Plant. Shaded cells represent
the pending subprojects.

                                                                                       POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                       TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                    IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                        POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT    MUNICIPALITY          PROJECT           AREA   TYPE                    ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                     (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                      WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                      BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                     SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                                IMPROVEMENT AND
                               OPTIMIZATION OF THE
 AMAZONAS        LETICIA     WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM      URB     WS      19,460         19,460
                             IN THE MUNICIPALITY OF
                                 LETICIA – PHASE 1                                                                                                       
                                 OPTIMIZATION AND
                                EXPANSION OF THE
 ANTIOQUIA       TURBO                                URB     WS      34,867         34,867
                                 URBAN AQUEDUCT
                                      SYSTEM
                                 REPLACEMENT OF
 ANTIOQUIA       TURBO         WATER DISTRIBUTION     URB     WS
                               PIPES IN URBAN AREA
                                  THIRD STAGE OF
                   SAN
 ANTIOQUIA                   CONSTRUCTION OF THE      URB      S       4,390                     3,526                  864
                JERÓNIMO
                                  SEWER SYSTEM                                                                                                           
                                 OPTIMIZATION AND
                                EXPANSION OF THE
 ANTIOQUIA       SANTAFE                              URB     WS      13,757         13,757
                              URBAN WATER SUPPLY
                                      SYSTEM                                                                                                             
                                 OPTIMIZATION AND
               BAJO CAUCA:      EXPANSION OF THE
 ANTIOQUIA                                            URB     WS      96,962         96,962
                CAUCASIA      URBAN WATER SUPPLY
                                      SYSTEM
                                 OPTIMIZATION AND
               BAJO CAUCA:      EXPANSION OF THE
 ANTIOQUIA                                            URB     WS       4,500                               4,500
                 TARAZ?,      URBAN WATER SUPPLY
                                      SYSTEM                                                                                                             
                                 OPTIMIZATION AND
               BAJO CAUCA:      EXPANSION OF THE
 ANTIOQUIA                                            URB     WS       12558         12558
                ZARAGOZA      URBAN WATER SUPPLY
                                      SYSTEM                                                                                                             
                               CONSTRUCTION OF A
                             WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
 ANTIOQUIA     SAN VICENTE   IN SMALL RURAL TOWNS      R      WS       1,765                                                       1,765               3
                                   LA HONDA - LA
                              FLORESTA - SANTA ANA




                                                                               24
                                                                                     POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                     TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                  IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                      POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT            AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                   (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                    WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                    BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                   SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                                  STORAGE AND
                               FILTRATION TANKS,
                                   WATER MAIN
                                   NETWORKS,
 ANTIOQUIA     SONSON                                 R     WS       2148                                                        2,148              1
                               DISTRIBUTION AND
                               WATER HOUSEHOLD
                            CONNECTIONS FOR THE
                            POPULATED CENTER OF
                            THE TOWN OF LA DANTA
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                            SEWER NETWORK IN THE
ATLANTICO     LURUACO                                URB     S       3,330                     370                   2,960
                                MUNICIPALITY OF
                                    LURUACO                                                                                                           
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                            FIRST STAGE OF SEWER
ATLANTICO      REPELON           SYSTEM IN THE       URB     S      12,506                     9,952                 2,554
                                MUNICIPALITY OF
                                    REPELON                                                                                                           
                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                             SEWER SYSTEM IN THE
ATLANTICO    CANDELARIA                              URB     S       8,882                     4,413                 4,469
                                MUNICIPALITY OF
                                   CANDELARIA                                                                                                         
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
              MANAT? -          REGIONAL WATER
ATLANTICO                                            URB    WS      16,740         16,740
             CANDELARIA         SUPPLY SYSTEMS
                              MANATI - CANDELARIA                                                                                                     
                               CONSTRUCTION OF
ATLANTICO       SUAN         SEWER WORKS IN THE      URB     S       8,817                     4,357                 4,460
                             MUNICIPALITY OF SUAN                                                                                                     
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                                REGIONAL WATER
              PALMAR DE
ATLANTICO                    SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE    URB    WS      22,841         22,085                 756
               VARELA
                             REGION OF PALMAR DE
                                     VARELA                                                                                                           
             PIOJO - JUAN       WATER SUPPLY
             DE ACOSTA -    SYSTEMS IN PIOJO, JUAN
ATLANTICO                                            URB    WS      24,992         24,992
              USIACURI Y     DE ACOSTA, USIACURI,
               TUBARA              TUBAR?                                                                                                             
                            CONSTRUCTION OF AN
               PUERTO          INTERCEPTOR IN
ATLANTICO                                            URB     S       6,191                     6,191
              COLOMBIA      MALECON. FIRST STAGE
                            OF THE SECOND PHASE                                                                                                       

                                                                             25
                                                                                 POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                     TOTAL                  POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                              IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                      POP.               IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT            AREA   TYPE               ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                   (PROJECT               ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                    BENEF.)                SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                               SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                                REGIONAL WATER
                            SUPPLY SYSTEM IN LOS
             CARMEN DE
 BOLIVAR                    MONTES DE MARIA FOR      URB    WS      15,000     15,000
              BOLIVAR
                            THE CENTER AREAS OF
                              CARMEN DE BOLIVAR
                                 MUNICIPALITIES.                                                                                                  
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                                REGIONAL WATER
                            SUPPLY SYSTEM IN LOS
 BOLIVAR     SAN JACINTO    MONTES DE MARIA FOR      URB    WS      21,218     21,218
                            THE CENTER AREAS OF
                                THE SAN JACINTO
                                 MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                                   
                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                                REGIONAL WATER
                            SUPPLY SYSTEM OF LOS
               SAN JUAN
 BOLIVAR                    MONTES DE MARIA PARA     URB    WS      13,450     13,450
             NEPOMUCENO
                                 LAS CABECERAS
                              MUNICIPALITY OF SAN
                               JUAN NEPOMUCENO                                                                                                    
                              REHABILITATION AND
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
 BOLIVAR     SANTA ROSA         REGIONAL WATER       URB    WS      12551      12551
                               SUPPLY SYSTEM OF
                                   SANTA ROSA                                                                                                     
                              REHABILITATION AND
                                REPLACEMENT OF
                               UPTAKE AND WATER
                              TREATMENT SYSTEMS
                 SAN          AND OPTIMIZATION OF
             ESTANISLAO       THE EXISTING WATER
 BOLIVAR                                             URB    WS      20,044     20,044
             DE KOTSKA Y    MAINS IN THE REGIONAL
             VILLANUEVA     WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                             IN THE MUNICIPALITIES
                            OF SAN ESTANISLAO DE
                                   KOTSKA AND
                                   VILLANUEVA                                                                                                     
                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                                WWTP IN TUNJA A
 BOYACA         TUNJA                                URB     S      130000                130,000
                               MODEL OF 120 LPS -
                                     STAGE I                                                                                                      


                                                                         26
                                                                                     POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                     TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                  IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                      POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT            AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                   (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                    WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                    BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                   SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
             RISARALDA,
                                 REGIONAL WATER
  CALDAS     SAN JOSE Y                              URB    WS      16,000         16,000
                             SUPPLY AQUEDUCT OF
             BELALCAZAR
                               OCCIDENTE STAGE II                                                                                                     
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
  CAUCA        ARGELIA        WTP IN THE ARGELIA -   URB    WS       3,500          3,500
                                  CAUCA SYSTEM                                                                                                        
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                             WTP, TOWN OF MANGO
  CAUCA        ARGELIA                                R     WS       1,200                                                       1,200              1
                                 MUNICIPALITY OF
                                 ARGELIA - CAUCA
                             CONSTRUCTION OF AN
                            AQUEDUCT IN THE TOWN
  CAUCA        ARGELIA                                R     WS       525                                                         525                1
                                OF SAN JUAN DE LA
                                      GUADA
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                             RURAL WATER SUPPLY
  CAUCA        ARGELIA                                R     WS       1,050                                                       1,050              1
                            SYSTEM IN THE TOWN OF
                                   PUERTO RICO
                             CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                               FIRST STAGE OF THE
  CAUCA        ARGELIA                                R      S       4,480                                                               4,480      1
                            SEWER NETWORK IN THE
                             TOWN OF EL PLATEADO
                                CONSTRUCTION OF
                                 WORKS FOR THE
                                EXPANSION OF THE
                             RURAL WATER SUPPLY
  CAUCA       CALDONO                                 R     WS       4,696                                                       4,696             10
                                  SYSTEM IN THE
                               COLLECTIVES OF LA
                                BUITRERA Y NUEVE
                                     VEREDAS
                              CONSTRUCTION FIRST
                              STAGE OF THE RURAL
  CAUCA       CALDONO       WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM       R     WS       2,317                                                       2,317             13
                              OF THE EL PESCADOR
                                (13 RURAL TOWNS)
                              REHABILITATION AND
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
  CAUCA        CALOTO        RURAL WATER SUPPLY       R     WS       5,430                                                       5,430              1
                              SYSTEM OF CRUCERO
                                     DEL GUALI



                                                                             27
                                                                                    POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                    TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                 IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                     POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT           AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                  (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                   WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                   BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                  SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                               REHABILITATION OF
                                  SEWERS AND
                             CONSTRUCTION WWTP
  CAUCA       FLORENCIA                             URB     S       1,579                     1,579
                             FOR THE CENTER AREA
                               OF THE FLORENCIA
                                 MUNICIPALITY.
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                                 WATER SUPPLY
                               SYSTEMS AND THE
  CAUCA       FLORENCIA       COMPLETION OF THE     URB    WS       1,152          1,152
                                 WTP FOR THE
                                   FLORENCIA
                                 MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                        
                             IMPROVEMENT OF THE
                                 DISTRIBUTION
  CAUCA      MERCADERES        NETWORKS IN THE      URB    WS       6,100          6,100
                                MUNICIPALITY OF
                                 MERCADERES                                                                                                          
                               PROJECT WTP LAS
                               GUACAS – PHASE I
  CAUCA       POPAYAN                               URB    WS      20,741         20,741
                              CONSTRUCTION AND
                                 OPTIMIZATION
                                 WATER SUPPLY
                            NETWORKS TO CONNECT
  CAUCA       POPAYAN                               URB    WS       5,608          5,608
                            CIUDADELA LAS GUACAS
                               WITH THE NEW WTP
                               EXPANSION OF THE
                            DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
  CESAR       BOSCONIA                              URB    WS      25,599         25,599
                             OF THE WATER SUPPLY
                                    SYSTEM                                                                                                           
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                               WATER SUPPLY AND
  CESAR      CHIRIGUANA       SEWAGE SYSTEMS IN      R     WSS      1,143                                                       1,111     32       1
                                THE TOWN OF LA
                                    AURORA
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                              WATER MAINS OF THE
  CESAR        PAILITAS                             URB    WS      11,126         11,126
                               MUNICIPAL WATER
                                SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                                        




                                                                            28
                                                                                     POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                     TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                  IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                      POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY          PROJECT           AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                   (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                    WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                    BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                   SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                              URBAN WATER SUPPLY
                                SYSTEM AND THE
  CESAR       RIO DE ORO       CONSTRUCTION OF A     URB    WS       7,594          7,434                 160
                              WATER MAIN BETWEEN
                             THE EL SALOBRE INTAKE
                                  AND THE WTP                                                                                                         
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
 CORDOBA      CANALETE       WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM     URB    WS        0              0
                             OF THE URBAN CENTER                                                                                                      
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
 CORDOBA       MOÑITOS                               URB    WS       5,400          5,400
                             WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                                      
                                OPTIMIZATION AND
                  SAN           EXPANSION OF THE
 CORDOBA      BERNARDO           POTABLE WATER       URB    WS       8,459          8,459
              DEL VIENTO      TREATMENT PLANT OF
                                THE MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                      
                              FINANCING WORKS IN
                             THE ACTION PLAN THAT
                                 ARE PART OF THE
              MOMIL CHIMA
                              PROCESS OF HIRING A
             PURISIMA, SAN
                             SPECIALIZED OPERATOR
               ANDRES DE
 CORDOBA                        WHO WOULD HELP       URB    WS      99,500         99,500
              SOTAVENTO,
                              IMPROVE THE WATER
             SAN ANTEROY
                               SUPPLY AND SEWER
                 LORICA
                              SYSTEMS IN THE ERCA
                                    REGION’S
                                  MUNICIPALITIES                                                                                                      
                               CONSTRUCTION OF A
                             SEWER SYSTEM ON THE
 CORDOBA      MONTERIA                               URB     S      42,839                    42,839
                               LEFT MARGIN OF THE
                                CITY OF MONTERIA
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                PUERTO
 CORDOBA                     WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM     URB    WS       3,539          3,259                 280
              ESCONDIDO
                             IN THE URBAN CENTER                                                                                                      
                             CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                              UPTAKE, WATER MAINS
               PUERTO
 CORDOBA                       AND WTP IN THE NEW    URB    WS      13,425         13,175                 250
             LIBERTADOR
                             WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                             IN PUERTO LIBERTADOR                                                                                                     
                                REGIONAL WATER
 CORDOBA     SAN PELAYO      SUPPLY SYSTEM OF SAN    URB    WS       6,991          6,991
                                    PELAYO                                                                                                            

                                                                             29
                                                                                        POP.                              POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                        TOTAL                         POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                     IMPROVED                              ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                         POP.                      IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY          PROJECT              AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                                SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                      (PROJECT                      ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                       WATER                             (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                       BENEF.)                       SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                      SUPPLY                              CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                                REGIONAL WATER
                               SUPPLY SYSTEM IN
                              COTORRA (Abrojal, Los
 CORDOBA       COTORRA                                  URB    WS      15,037             15,037
                               Gomez, El paso de las
                               Flores, Los Cedros, La
                                Culebra, Las Arepas,
                             Trementino and Moralito)
                                REGIONAL WATER
                                SUPPLY STSEM IN
                            TOWNS LOS MORALES IN
              CGTO LOS         LORICA (El Carito, La
 CORDOBA     MORALES EN       Subida, Los Monos, Los     R     WS      12,442                                                         12,442             11
               LORICA         Morales, Mata de caña,
                            Rabogacho, Sarandelo, La
                             Peinada, Rodeito, Recula
                                    and Tierralta)                                     
                             CONSTRUCTION OF AN
CUNDINAMAR
                 PULI        URBAN WATER SUPPLY         URB    WS       1,417              907                  510
    CA
                                SYTEM – PHASE 1                                                                                                             
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
CUNDINAMAR    CAQUEZA Y         REGIONAL WATER
                                                         R     WS       2250                                                           2,250              1
    CA        CHIPAQUE          SUPPLY SYTEM IN
                               FRUTICAS - PHASE I
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                              FIRST PHASE OF THE
                              MASTER PLAN FOR A
CUNDINAMAR
               LA MESA       SEWER SYSTEM IN THE        URB     S      15,014                       11,986                 3,028
    CA
                             URBAN CENTER OF THE
                               MUNICIPALITY OF LA
                                        MESA                                                                                                                
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                             WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                            IN THE RURAL TOWNS OF
CUNDINAMAR                    LA SALDA, MALBERTO,
               TOCAIMA                                   R     WS       6,316                                                          6,316              9
    CA                       VILA, ALTO DE LA VIGA,
                                 ASOMADERO, EL
                              VERDAL, CAPOTES, LA
                              MATA Y MORRO AZUL)




                                                                                30
                                                                                    POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                    TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                 IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                     POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT           AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                  (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                   WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                   BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                  SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM

                              COMPLETION OF THE
                              FIRST PHASE OF THE
CUNDINAMAR                  CONSTRUCTION OF THE
              ZIPAQUIRA                             URB     S      75,324                    75,324
    CA                          MUNICIPALITY OF
                              ZIPAQUIRA’S MASTER
                             SEWER SYSTEM PLAN
                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                             SEWERS FOR THE VILL
             SAN JOSE DEL     ANDREA-SAN JORGE
 GUAVIARE                                           URB     S       3,811                      0                    3,811
              GUAVIARE         AREA AND A WATER
                              MAIN IN SAN JOSE DE
                                    GUAVIARE                                                                                                         
                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                                  WASTEWATER
                                   TREATMENT
  HUILA         NEIVA            CONSTRUCCION       URB     S      38,000                    38,000
                               COLECTOS ON THE
                            MARGIN OF THE RIO LAS
                                     CEIBAS
                             OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                                 WATER SUPPLY
                                NETWORKS IN THE
LA GUAJIRA     FONSECA                              URB    WS      26,855         26,855
                                URBAN ZONE, THE
                            CENTER AREA, THE ALTO
                             PRADO AND EL CAMPO                                                                                                      
                             OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                                 WATER SUPPLY
             SAN JUAN DEL
LA GUAJIRA                      NETWORK OF THE      URB    WS      25,000         25,000
                CESAR
                             URBAN ZONE, CENTER
                                 AND 20 DE JULIO                                                                                                     
                             REPAIR OF THE WATER
                                MAIN CHORRERAS
             BARRANCAS ,
LA GUAJIRA                  FONSECA - BARRANCAS,    URB    WS      25,484           0                   25,484
             HATO NUEVO
                             NEW REGIONAL WATER
                                 SUPPLY SYSTEM                                                                                                       
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                                NEW WTP OF THE
                               REGIONAL GRAVITY
                               AQUEDUCT OF THE
                                MUNICIPALITY OF
LA GUAJIRA     DIBULLA                              URB    WS      11,500           0                   11,500
                                DIBULLA AND THE
                              TOWNS OF LA PUNTA,
                               LOS REMEDIOS, LAS
                               FLORES, CAMPANA
                                NUEVO AND VIEJO                                                                                                      

                                                                            31
                                                                                     POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                     TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                  IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                      POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT            AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                   (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                    WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                    BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                   SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM

                               CONSTRUCTION OF
                             SEWERAGE NETWORKS
LA GUAJIRA    RIOHACHA                               URB     S       3,065                      0                    3,065
                            IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
                                OF BUENOS AIRES
                            REDUCE VULNERABILITY
LA GUAJIRA    RIOHACHA       OF THE WATER SUPPLY     URB    WS      86,902         86,902
                                     SYSTEM
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
MAGDALENA     ARACATACA     WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM      URB    WS      25277          25277
                              OF THE MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                     
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                             WATER SUPPLY SYTEM
MAGDALENA     EL RETEN                               URB    WS      15915          15915
                            OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF
                                  LA CABECERA                                                                                                         
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                                POTABLE WATER
MAGDALENA     FUNDACION     DISTRIBUTION NETWORK     URB    WS      13848          13848
                            OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF
                                  LA CABECERA                                                                                                         
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                                POTABLE WATER
             DEPARTAMENT       TREATMENT PLANT -
   META                                              URB    WS      51,322         51,322
                  O            PHASE I, REGIONAL
                            WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                                    OF ARIARI                                                                                                         
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                              PRINICPAL SEWER OF
  NARIÑO      EL TAMBO      THE SEWER SYSTEM OF      URB     S       1,214                     964                    250
                              THE MUNICIPALITY OF
                                     TAMBO                                                                                                            
                                 OPERATIONAL
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
  NARIÑO      LOS ANDES                              URB    WS       4,754          4,754
                            WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                              OF THE MUNICIPALITY                                                                                                     
                             CONSTRUCTION OF A
  NARIÑO       CUMBAL       WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM      URB    WS       9,482          9,482
                            IN THE URBAN CENTER                                                                                                       
                             REPLACEMENT OF THE
                            DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
                            FO THE WATER SYPPLY
  NARIÑO      SAMANIEGO                              URB    WS       7,625          6,860                 765
                                SYSTEM OF THE
                               MUNICIPALITY OF
                                  CABECERA                                                                                                            


                                                                             32
                                                                                     POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                     TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                  IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                      POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT            AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                   (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                    WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                    BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                   SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                                  WATER INTAKE
                                 STRUCTURE LAS
  NARIÑO        PASTO           PIEDRAS FOR THE      URB    WS      72,300         72,300
                             WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                                    OF PASTO
                             CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                               WATER SUPPLY AND
                             SEWER NETWORKS FOR
 NORTE DE
               HERRAN          THE RESETTLEMENT      URB    WSS      2,457          2,457
SANTANDER
                               AREA IN THE URBAN
                                  CENTER OF THE
                                   MUNICIPALITY
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                            SEWER NETWORK IN THE
 NORTE DE
             LOS PATIOS      MIRADOR - VIDELSO AND   URB     S       1,470                     1,470
SANTANDER
                               SUR DEL MUNICIPIO
                                     SECTORS
                             CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                              FIRST STAGE OF THE
 NORTE DE
                OCAÑA       INTERCEPTOR OF AGUAS     URB     S      14,900                    14,900
SANTANDER
                                 NEGRAS DEL RIO
                                    CHUIQUITO
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                              WATER PUMP STATION
                              THAT GUARANTEES A
 QUINDIO       ARMENIA       SUPPLY OF RAW WATER     URB    WS      315,914        315,914
                                  TO THE WATER
                            TREATMENT PLANT THAT
                               SERVICES ARMENIA
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE
                             WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
SAN ANDRES   PROVIDENCIA                             URB    WS       1,618          1,618
                                   OF LA ISLA DE
                                   PROVIDENCIA
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
                                   WWTP IN THE
                             MUNICIPALITY OF VALLE
              VALLE SAN
SANTANDER                        DE SAN JOSE TO      URB     S       5,432                     5,432
                JOSE
                                 IMPROVE WATER
                             QUALITY IN THE FONCE
                                       RIVER
               PUENTE       NEW WWTP RIO SUAREZ-
SANTANDER                                            URB     S      10,088                    10,088
              NACIONAL          PUENTE NACIONAL


                                                                             33
                                                                                   POP.                           POP. NEW     POP.
                                                                   TOTAL                      POP.    POP. NEW
                                                                                IMPROVED                           ACCESS     RURAL     POP.     # OF
                                                                    POP.                   IMPROVED    ACCESS
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY         PROJECT          AREA   TYPE                   ACCESS                             SANIT.    WATER    RURAL    RURAL
                                                                 (PROJECT                   ACCESS     WATER
                                                                                  WATER                          (SEWERAGE    SUPPLY   SANIT.   AREAS
                                                                  BENEF.)                    SANIT.    SUPPLY
                                                                                 SUPPLY                           CONNECT.)   SYSTEM


                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                              MAIN SEWER IN THE
SANTANDER      CHIPATA      URBAN CENTER OF THE    URB     S       1,413                     1,413
                               MUNICIPALITY OF
                                   CHIPATA
                             CONSTRUCTION OF A
                             STORMWATER SEWER
SANTANDER      CHIPATA                             URB     S       1,158                     1,158
                            NETWORK IN THE URBAN
                                   CENTER
                              CONSTRUCTION OF
SANTANDER      MALAGA        WATER MAINS JAIMITO   URB    WS      80,000         80,000
                                (CONCEPCION)
                              OPTIMIZATION AND
                              EXPANSION OF THE
  SUCRE        CHALAN                               R     WS       3,897                                                       3,897
                            WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                                  OF CHALAN                                                                                                       1 
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                                  NORTHERN
  TOLIMA       LIBANO                              URB     S       5,550                     5,238                  312
                                INTERCEPTOR,
                             QUEBRADA SAN JUAN
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE
                               REGIONAL WATER
  TOLIMA       ORTEGA       SUPPLY SYSTEM, OLAYA    R      S       7,044                                                       7,044   7,044
                             HERRERA, CANALIES,
                             BALSILLAS AND GUAPI                                                                                                  4 




                                                                           34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1.       This annex consists of two analyses: (i) the economic and financial analysis of the project; and (b)
the institutional strengthening of the operators. Both analyses were based on the study of a sample of
subprojects implemented under the program. The sample consisted of seven subprojects: five
corresponded to water projects (optimization, and expansion), one of sewerage projects; and one included
water and sewerage. In the economic analysis, the two subprojects in Popayan were evaluated as one
project.

2.      Results of the economic analysis show that all projects, but one, are economically feasible, with
returns of USD 33 million and a profit of 27 %. Financially the project is feasible as well with returns of
USD 10 million. Results on the institutional strengthening analysis show that all utilities, which are
operating the investment have improved key operational indicators.

A. Economic and Financial Analysis of the Project

3.      For the evaluation of the project a sample of seven sub-projects was selected. This sample
consisted of water and sewerage projects, which included optimization, expansion, and construction of
new systems.

4.      The economic and financial analysis for each sub-project was based on actual investment and
operating costs, as well as actual benefits. Some of the projects are just starting, so expected benefits and
costs were included in this evaluation. All costs and benefits were transformed to 2004 prices to make
them comparable with results obtained at PAD. The 12% discount rate used during appraisal was also
used for this evaluation, and so the 30-year lifetime of the project.

5.      Costs. The real investment cost of the sub-projects selected for the sample was COP 28,135
million (about USD 11 million).

  Municipality     Department                             Project                                Investment
                                                                                        Millon
                                                                                        es COP     (000 USD)
 Santa Fe de                      Optimization and expansion of urban water
 Antioquia    Antioquia           system                                                 1,345         513
 San Jeronimo Antioquia           Optimization and expansion of sewerage system          1,128         430
                                  Regional water system for La Honda, La
 San Vicente       Antioquia      Floresta, Santa Ana                                     870          332
                                  Water Treatment Plant for the North Area of
 Popayan           Cauca          Popayan city.                                          5,090        1,941
 Popayan           Cauca          Water system for the housing project las Guacas        1,393         531
 Chiriguana                       Water and Sewerage Systems in the village
 (La Aurora)       Cesar          (Corregimiento) of la Aurora                           2,653        1,012
                                  Water intake of Las Piedras stream for the water
 Pasto           Narino           system of the city of Pasto.                     15,656     5,971
     Total                                                                         28,135     10,729
6.     The following table shows the investment cost per person. Chiriguana’s costs were broken down
by type of works implemented, i.e., water, sewerage, and wastewater treatment. The number of

                                                     35
beneficiaries in Chiriguana is different depending on the type of investment. For water and sewerage the
works were implemented just in La Aurora village; while wastewater treatment works were extended to
cover La Aurora and also Ojo de Agua village. The unitary costs includes the actual beneficiaries for each
type of work.

                                                                                Investment per
                                                        Works                       person
                                                                                       USD

     Santa Fe de Antioquia                              Water                          27
     San Jeronimo                                       Sewerage                       313
     San Vicente                                        Water                          195
     Popayan                                            Water                           8
     Popayan (Housing Project Las Guacas)               Water                          103
                                                        Total (water
     Chiriguana (La Aurora)                             sewerage and                  1,192
                                                        WW treatment)
             Water                                      Water                          192
             Sewerage                                   Sewerage                       618
             Wastewater Treatment                       WW treatment                   239
     Pasto                                              Water                          23

7.      For the economic evaluation, the flow of financial costs was transformed to economic using the
conversion factors to eliminate market distortions. This evaluation applied the same conversion factors
used for the appraisal.

8.     Benefits. The benefits were estimated for each sub-project in correspondence with the works
implemented. For water components, there were two type of benefits: reducing or eliminating rationing,
and connecting new customers. For sewerage services, there were two type of benefits, as well:
improving of wastewater treatment; and connecting new customers to sewerage system.

9.      Financial Benefits were estimated as the increase of revenues resulting from new customers or
from current customers when improving the service and increasing their consumption. Increase in
revenues was estimated based on current bills paid by customers. For some of the beneficiaries the bills
increased when rationing was eliminated and consumption went higher. In some cases there was an
additional benefit when operating costs decreased due to the project.

10.     Economic Benefits were estimated as follows: for water, as the avoided cost for the population
caused by the project. For sewerage economic benefits were estimated as the increase in the properties
value due to the project.

11.      Benefits obtained with each of the sub-projects included in the sample are explained in more
detail in the following paragraphs:

12.     Santa Fe de Antioquia. The project consisted of optimization and expansion of the water system.
The works included replacement of pipelines and installation of a storage tank. With these works the
improvements occurred on the quality of water provided, and also on the continuity of the water supplied.
Water interruptions were eliminated and new customers could be added to the system. This was very
important for the municipality given that the main economic activity is the tourism. During the weekends
and holiday the municipality doubles the population and so its water requirement. Before the project, the

                                                   36
operator had to restrict the supply in certain areas of the city due to lack of appropriate hydraulic
infrastructure. Currently the service is provided 24/7 in all areas.

13.     Rationing costs were estimated, as the savings the population will have for not having to store
water any longer. Revenues were estimated based on current tariffs charged by the operator. Operating
costs were based on current costs. It is expected a reduction of operating costs on about 10% due to the
reduction of occurrences of broken pipes.

14.     San Jerónimo. The project consisted of optimization and expansion of the sewerage system. The
works on optimization consisted on expanding the main collectors to clean up the creek El Caminito. This
creek was the receptor body of wastewater discharges, which produced a bad odor and deteriorated the
quality of life of the population living nearby. The works of sewerage service expansion consisted on
secondary network to connect 196 households,

15.     The benefits of the project were estimated as the increase on the property value of the houses
along the creek (305 households), as well as the houses that got connected to the system (196 households).
According to the beneficiaries, the houses increased in about 30% the market price and the average price
on the houses in the area is between USD 20,000 to USD 50,000.

16. The investment and operating costs were based on the actual values.

17.      San Vicente. This subproject consisted of the construction of a Regional Water System for three
rural villages (La Honda, La Floresta, Santa Ana) in the municipality of San Vicente. The beneficiaries
have operated the system for four years and according to the community, the quality of the service is
excellent with 24/7 supply. The community is in charge of the operation, maintenance, and billing. The
community establishes on a regular basis the monthly bill, which consists of a fixed rate for 20 cubic
meter per household per month and a variable rate for each cubic meter over this quota. The service is
100% metered and most of the households keep consumption below the 20 cubic meters to avoid high
charges. There is a sense of rationality on water-usage and the revenue collection rate is close to 100%.

18.     Before the project, there was no water service available to the population. Water was found in
creeks nearby, and population transported it through artisanal hoses. The quality of the water was not
good and the availability was sporadic.

19.     Financial Benefits were estimated using the actual tariffs and costs for the community. Economic
benefits were estimated using the cost of storing water, which is about USD1/cubic meter.

20.     Popayan. This subproject consisted of the expansion of the water treatment plant. The objective
was to connect new customers in the North part of the city, which has grown at a higher pace than the rest
of the city. The new customers have high demand for water, as they are mostly commercial, industrial,
and high-income residential users. With the project the treatment plant will have enough capacity for
serving the new area in the North and also for improving and guaranteeing water 24/7 for the rest of the
city.

21.      The expanded capacity of the water plant will allow optimizing the distribution system, reducing
electricity costs by eliminating some of the pumping. It is estimated that operating costs will decrease by
around 3%. Other benefits included the increase of customers and reduction of water intermittence.

22.     Another subproject of the sample is the water system for the housing project of Las Guacas. This
project consisted in the construction of pipelines required to connect 1,042 households, to the water
system of the city of Popayan. The benefits will be those that come along with the expansion of the water

                                                    37
system, in both economic and financial terms. Benefits and costs associated with the connection of these
new customers were included in the Popayan project.

23.      Pasto. This subproject consisted of the optimization of a new water source to include in the
production system. With the new intake EMPOPASTO, the water utility will be able to supply the water
demand that comes along with the growth of the city, as well as to reduce the vulnerability that the
infrastructure faces with eruptions of the Volcano Galeras. The works corresponded to the first of two-
phases. The first phase increased the intake capacity by 250 lps, which helped improving the efficiency of
the distribution system by decreasing the electricity costs. The second phase will expand the system for
25,000 new customers and will be able to supply the water required for the next 20 years.

24.     The benefits of the first phase consisted on reducing operating costs and improving reliability of
the current water system.

25.     Chiriguana. This subproject consisted of the construction of water and sewerage systems
including wastewater treatment. The water investment was carried out for the rural village of La Aurora
in the municipality of Chiriguana, Department of Cesar; the sewerage and wastewater treatment lagoon
were expanded to serve not only La Aurora but also the rural village of Ojo de Agua The beneficiaries of
La Aurora are 850 inhabitants, which previously had no access to neither water nor sewerage services.
The size of Ojo de Agua village is similar to La Aurora with about 1,000 inhabitants. The community will
operate the systems. At the time of this evaluation the works were completed, but the service had not
been handled to the community. The municipality in charge of the project had not given training to local
beneficiaries and was not paying much attention to the project. The National Government gave a
timetable to the municipality to comply with its obligations of making sure the project started operations
and was well operated by the community.

26.     For this evaluation, benefits were estimated assuming that the community will take charge and
will operate the service as it was planned. Financial benefits were calculated using the water and
sewerage tariff charged to the lowest income group (strata 1) of residential users in the capital city of the
Department (Valledupar). The economic cost was estimated as the avoided costs of storing water. For the
sewerage system and wastewater treatment a 15% increase on the property value was included. The
property value of the houses is about USD 10,000 as the community is very poor and isolated.

27. Results. The results are presented in financial and economic terms.

28.      Financial Results. When investment costs are included the financial results show that all projects
but Santa Fe de Antioquia and Popayan show losses. The returns shown by Santa Fe de Antioquia (USD
1.7 million) and Popayan (USD 1.6 million) are enough to compensate the losses in all other projects,
resulting in a net profit of USD 480 thousand and an internal rate of return of 12.4%.




                                                     38
         FINANCIAL RESULTS
                                          Net Present of Flows (000 USD)
                                                                      Net                       IRR
                                          Costs         Benefits      Benefits                  (%)
          Santa Fe de Antioquia           1,290         2,994         1,704                     31%
          San Jeronimo                    488           274           (214)                     4%
          San Vicente                     542           145           (398)                     n.a
          Popayan                         13,322        14,931        1,609                     18%
          Pasto                           12,137        10,831        (1,306)                   9%
         Chiriguana:
             Water                        185            25                  (160)              n.a
             Sewerage-WW
         treatment                        770            13                  (756)              n.a
             Total Chiriguana             955            39                  (916)              n.a
          Total                           28,733         29,213              480                12.4%

29.     However, the investment cost is paid by the Government and not by the operators and therefore is
to be excluded from the financial analysis of the operators and included in the fiscal analysis. When
investment is not included, all the projects, but Chiriguana, get a total profit of USD 10 million. The
Chiriguana project is not profitable given that tariffs for the lowest income beneficiaries do not cover
operating costs for water, sewerage, and wastewater treatment.

         FINANCIAL RESULTS WITHOUT INVESTMENT COSTS
                                  Net Present of Flows (000 USD)
                                                                                     Net
                                                Costs             Benefits           Benefits
         Santa Fe de Antioquia                  835               2,994              2,158
         San Jeronimo                           107               274                167
         San Vicente                            112               145                32
         Popayan                                11,132            14,931             3,798
         Pasto                                  6,850             10,831             3,981
         Chiriguana:
            Water                               45                28                 (17)
            Sewerage-WW treatment               18                13                 (4)
            Total Chiriguana                    63                42                 (21)
         Total                                  19,099            29,216             10,117

30.     Economic Results show high returns, as expected at appraisal. The net benefit is US$ 33 million
and return of 27% in total. All the subprojects in the sample have returns higher than 20% but the
sewerage and wastewater treatment investments in Chiriguana, The water subproject in Chiriguana
shows profits of USD 159 thousand and 23% economic returns.




                                                   39
         ECONOMIC RESULTS
                                               Net Present of Flows (000 USD)
                                                             Benefit      Net                 ERR
                                               Costs         s            Benefits            (%)
         Santa Fe de Antioquia                 1,122          6,362       5,239               57%
         San Jeronimo                          424            1,279       855                 55%
         San Vicente                           472            835         363                 26%
         Popayan                               11,590         28,629      17,039              24%
         Pasto                                 10,559         20,219      9,659               28%
         Chiriguana:
            Water                               165           324            159              23%
            Sewerage-WW treatment               664           182            (482)            n.a
            Total Chiriguana                    828           506            (323)            5%
         Total                                  24,996        57,829         32,833           27%

31.       Chiriguana shows very poor results in the sewerage and wastewater treatment investment given
that: (a) the investment cost per connection was much higher than the expected benefits; (b) the
community belongs to the lowest income level strata, living in a rural area where the lack of sewerage and
wastewater treatment has not affected much their lives; and (c) most of the houses do not have sanitary
facilities and the cost of installing them and adjusting their in-house connections to the sewerage network
is beyond their reach. The municipality needs to get involved with the community and offer additional
subsidy and credit lines to make the service accessible to the community and make it operative.

B. Institutional Strengthening Analysis

32.      During preparation three development levels were established to define what kind of investment
was more appropriate for each operator. The levels were based on three indicators: billing collection rate,
account receivables comparator, and ratio of operating income to operating costs. The operators ranked
in the lowest level were eligible only for investments, which came along with institutional reform and
compliance of existing regulations. For the second level the investments had to come along with
programs that helped to improve operational indicators. For the highest level, the operators did not have
to undertake institutional development activities for financing the projects.

33. The sample chosen included the three levels.
     Chiriguana and San Vicente were in the lowest level, as they did not have any operator, the
    municipality was in charge of the service, yet it did not provide it to the population. For this kind of
    situation, the investment consisted of building the infrastructure complementing it with a series of
    activities that enhanced the institutional capacity of the operators. Activities such as: creation of a
    water utility, separately from the municipality; training; compliance with tariff regulation; elaboration
    of the master plans, etc, were enforced. The results are shown in San Vicente, where the community
    is in charge of operating and managing the service, are impressive and the community is very proud
    and satisfied with the service. Chiriguana, on the other hand, does not show any results yet as the
    infrastructure is implemented, but the community is only in the process of starting the operation with
    the utility recently created.
     San Jerónimo and Santa Fe de Antioquia were in stage 2 and improved significantly their
    indicators.
     Pasto and Popayan were in stage 3. The investments were implemented as expected and the
    targets have been complied. In both of these utilities, the operation indicators improved, even farther
    than the levels shown on the baseline, which was very good in some cases.



                                                     40
                     Revenue           Operating
                     collection        income/Ope
                     rate              rating cost         UFW              Micro metering
                  Baseline 2010     Baseline 2010       Baseline 2010    Baseline 2010
Santa Fe
Antioquia          n.d      99%     1.77      2.72      18%      16%     88%       100%
San Jeronomio      32%      100%    1.29      1.12      n.d      26%     n.d       100%
San Vicente        n.a      90%     n.a       1.01      n.a      18%     n.a       100%
Chiriguana         n.a      n.a     n.a       n.a       n.a      18%     n.a       n.a
Popayan            96%      97%     1.03      1.22      45%      42%     96%       97%
Pasto              n.d      88%     1.04      1.14      39%                        100%
    n.d. Not available
   n.a Not applicable

    Data Source:
   San Vicente information gathered at field visit
   UFW Santa Fe de Antioquia. and San Jerónimo: SUI.    The information corresponds to 2009
    instead of 2010
   Other from the database provided by the Minister.




                                             41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
              Names                                Title             Unit

Lending
Oscar E. Alvarado                 Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.       SASDU
Luiz C. Gazoni                    Consultant                        LCSFM
Menahem Libhaber                  Consultant                        LCSUW
Patricia Lopez Martinez           Sr Financial Analyst              LCSUW
Luis M. Schwarz                   Senior Finance Officer            CTRFC
David N. Sislen                   Sector Leader                     LCSSD
Cristina Velazco-Weiss            Program Assistant                  MDD

Supervision/ICR
Ana Maria Aristizabal             Consultant                        LCSUW
Daniel J. Boyce                   Country Program Coordinator       SACNA
Greg J. Browder                   Lead Water and Sanitation Spec    LCSUW
Claudia Mylenna Cardenas Garcia   Consultant                        LCSFM
Jeannette Estupinan               Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Joseph Paul Formoso               Lead Finance Officer              CTRDM
Natalie Giannelli                 Junior Professional Associate     LCSUW
Clara Hortensia Gomez Hernandez   Consultant                        LCSUW
Henry Laino                       Consultant                        LCSUW
Menahem Libhaber                  Consultant                        LCSUW
Patricia Lopez Martinez           Sr Financial Analyst              LCSUW
Jose M. Martinez                  Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
Jesus Martinez                    E T Consultant                    LCSPS
Alejandro Meleg                   Consultant                        LCSUW
Jean-Roger Mercier                Consultant                          IPN
Luz Meza-Bartrina                 Sr Counsel                        LEGAF
Kirsten L. Oleson                 Environmental Spec.               LCSEN
Diana Ortiz Zuluaga               Consultant                        LCSUW
Gabriel Penaloza                  Procurement Analyst               LCSPT
Kennan W. Rapp                    Social Development Spec.          LCSDE
Ernesto Sanchez-Triana            Lead Environmental Specialist      SASDI
Luis M. Schwarz                   Senior Finance Officer            CTRFC
Carlos A. Uribe                   E T Consultant                    LCSUW
Carlos Vargas Bejarano            Consultant                        LCSUW
Meike van Ginneken                Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.       AFTUW
Patricia Acevedo                  Language Program Assistant        LCSUW




                                            42
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                    3                             16.75
  FY04                                   37                            180.28
  FY05                                   36                            226.63
                          Total:         76                            423.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                  -0.65
  FY05                                    1                             19.94
  FY06                                   13                             63.79
  FY07                                   16                            126.72
  FY08                                   34                            168.54
  FY09                                   18.18                          98.92
  FY 10                                  29.12                         153.63
  FY 11                                  17.91                          78.42
  FY 12                                   3.85                          26.03
                          Total:        133.06                         735.34




                                       43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                       45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments sent by the Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Housing, Cities and Territory.
Comments were sent on March 22, 2012. The translated version is included below.

1.     The draft of the ICR reflects the principal aspects of the Project and its results. The Project
responded to the objectives agreed upon between the National Government and the World Bank to
increase the level of coverage and the quality of services especially in rural and poor areas. The Project
contributed to the achievement of the goals of the Government in the provision of potable water and
sewerage. The goals in the PAD were met, reflecting adequate planning of the program. The World
Bank’s resources complemented the resources provided by the Government which superseded the
counterpart amount agreed upon in the loan contract.

2.     The Program also helped connect private operators with 28 municipalities whose size and
complex operations permitted the entrance of private operators. For those municipalities whose size and
location did not call the attention of private operators, the Project supported the creation of public
companies in 19 of the 87 subprojects.

3.     The implementation of the Project took more time than predicted as a result of delays in the
execution of works because of difficulties in getting right of way permits, technical adjustments and land
issues generated by a lack of project planning by the municipalities.

4.     The Project’s financial and institutional aspects were properly prepared and supervised by the
Bank and Ministry staff. Nevertheless, as a result of the lack of clarity on safeguards during the
preparation of the Project and an unclear involuntary resettlement policy framework, the Ministry did not
comply with all policies. As a result, a remedial action plan was created. Although the Ministry complied
with the RAP satisfactorily, it had a high cost for the nation.

5.     The Bank’s staff support throughout the Project phases was very important for the Project’s
execution and should be highlighted.




                                                   46
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                       47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

WORLD BANK (2005), Project appraisal document on a proposed loan in the amount of US$70
million to the Republic of Colombia for a Water and Sanitation Sector Support Project

WORLD BANK (2007), Implementation completion and results report-Guidelines

WORLD BANK (2005), Loan agreement document

WORLD BANK (to 2011), Implementation Status and Results (ISR) reports

WORLD BANK (to 2011), Aide Memoires

WORLD BANK (2011), Implementation completion report (IBRD-7077) on a loan in the
amount of US$35.69 million to the Republic of Colombia for a Water Sector Reform Assistance
Project.

WORLD BANK (2010), Charting a New Course: A Structural Reforms in Colombia’s Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector.

WORLD BANK (2012), ICR Project Data Base, Excel Spreadsheet.

WORLD BANK (2012), Social Safeguards ICR Report.

WORLD BANK (2012), Environmental Safeguards ICR Report.

MVCT (2011), Presentación Cierre del Credito 7281-CO, Excel Spreadsheet (MAVDT
Monitoring System.

MVCT (2011), Resumen Ejecución Costo Real BIRF 7281-CO, Excel Spreadsheet

MVCT (2011), Resumen Fortalecimiento Institucional, Excel Spreadsheet

MVCT (2011), Informe Fortalecimiento Institucional

MVCT (2011), Informe sobre el Estado de las Salvaguardas Sociales.

Consorcio OTSCORPSA/Soluciones Ambientales AP&ALTDA (2012), Programa de Apoyo al
Sector de Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico, Evaluación Final.




                                            48
Annex 10. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

1.     To rate the risk to development outcome, the ICR considers the service providers’
capacity to operate and maintain the installed water and sanitation works and the policies
currently in place to support sector development. The evaluation of utility capacity is based on
the experience and knowledge the Bank team has on the water sector in Colombia and the type
of institutional development conducted under the Project. The subprojects are classified based
on their risk levels to sustain the investments, as shown in the table below. The results indicate
that 39 subprojects have a low risk, 40 moderate risk, and eight significant risk. The total
Project risk is considerate moderate. The table at the end of the annex shows the level of risk
and type of institutional strengthening for each subproject.

Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Characteristics                                                                 # of         Level of
                                                                              subproj.        Risk
Public companies in intermediate cities (pob >70,000) are usually known          11           Low
to be more efficient and reliable and are more accessible to oversight and
regulatory mechanisms.
Public or private operators in medium and small municipalities that are          10            Low
known to be running efficient and reliable operations.
Public companies that have introduced private operators under the Project        18            Low

Recently created cooperatives and public enterprises under the Project           19         Moderate

Public companies that participated in the institutional program and that         15         Moderate
are known to be performing moderately.
Public companies that did not participate in the institutional program due        6         Moderate
to good indicators.
Projects run directly by municipalities that did not link an operator            8a        Significant
(public or private)
Total                                                                            87         Moderate
a. Three subprojects did not create public companies because they
decided to join the PDA.




                                                49
Subproject Summary and Risk Analysis

Abbreviations:
URB: Urban; R: Rural; IS: Institutional Strengthening; PME: Modernization; NC: Without Condition; UfW: Unaccounted for Water;
PGR-SSPD: Water Management Plans Requested by the SSPD; PO: Private Operator; CPC: Creation of Public Company; CPC/PDO:
Public company was not created but municipality entered into a PDA.

Notes: The PME contract that Aguas de la Costa had in San Juan Nepomuceno was terminated.

                                                                                                           TYPE OF
 DEPARTMENT        MUNICIPALITY       PROJECT                               AREA            OPERATOR        INST.     RISK Analysis
                                                                                                          STRENGH.
                                      IMPROVEMENT AND OPTIMIZATION
                                      OF THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN                    EMPUAMAZONAS
 AMAZONAS          LETICIA                                                   URB                             PME            L
                                      THE MUNICIPALITY OF LETICIA –                       S.A. ESP
                                      PHASE 1

                                      OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF                   AGUAS DE URAB?
 ANTIOQUIA         TURBO                                                     URB                             PME            L
                                      THE URBAN AQUEDUCT SYSTEM                          S.A. ESP
                                      REPLACEMENT OF WATER
                                                                                      AGUAS DE URAB?
 ANTIOQUIA         TURBO              DISTRIBUTION PIPES IN URBAN            URB                             PME            L
                                                                                         S.A. ESP
                                      AREA
                                      THIRD STAGE OF CONSTRUCTION
 ANTIOQUIA         SAN JERÓNIMO                                              URB                             PME            L
                                      OF THE SEWER SYSTEM
                                                                                         REGIONAL
                                      OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF                  OCCIDENTE S.A. ESP
 ANTIOQUIA         SANTAFE            THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY                 URB                             PME            L
                                      SYSTEM
                                      OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF
                   BAJO CAUCA:
 ANTIOQUIA                            THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY                 URB                             PME            L
                   CAUCASIA
                                      SYSTEM
                                      OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF                     REGIONAL DEL
                   BAJO CAUCA:
 ANTIOQUIA                            THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY                 URB       BAJO CAUCA S.A.       PME            L
                   TARAZ?,
                                      SYSTEM                                                 ESP
                                      OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF
                   BAJO CAUCA:
 ANTIOQUIA                            THE URBAN WATER SUPPLY                 URB                             PME            L
                   ZARAGOZA
                                      SYSTEM


                                                             50
                                                                                            TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY      PROJECT                          AREA      OPERATOR           INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                           STRENGH.
                               CONSTRUCTION OF A WATER
                               SUPPLY SYSTEM IN SMALL RURAL
ANTIOQUIA    SAN VICENTE                                         R      ASOC. USUARIOS       CPC           M
                               TOWNS LA HONDA - LA FLORESTA -
                               SANTA ANA
                               CONSTRUCTION OF STORAGE AND
                               FILTRATION TANKS, WATER MAIN
                               NETWORKS, DISTRIBUTION AND
ANTIOQUIA    SONSON                                              R      ASOC. USUARIOS       CPC           M
                               WATER HOUSEHOLD CONNECTIONS
                               FOR THE POPULATED CENTER OF
                               THE TOWN OF LA DANTA
                               CONSTRUCTION OF A SEWER
ATLANTICO    LURUACO           NETWORK IN THE MUNICIPALITY      URB                          PME           L
                               OF LURUACO
                               CONSTRUCTION OF THE FIRST
ATLANTICO    REPELON           STAGE OF SEWER SYSTEM IN THE     URB                          PME           L
                               MUNICIPALITY OF REPELON
                               CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER SYSTEM            REGIONAL DEL SUR
ATLANTICO    CANDELARIA        IN THE MUNICIPALITY OF           URB    DEL ATL?NTICO S.A     PME           L
                               CANDELARIA                                     ESP
                               CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
             MANAT? -
ATLANTICO                      WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS MANATI -    URB                          PME           L
             CANDELARIA
                               CANDELARIA

                               CONSTRUCTION OF SEWER WORKS
ATLANTICO    SUAN                                               URB                          PME           L
                               IN THE MUNICIPALITY OF SUAN

                               CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
             PALMAR DE                                                 AGUAS KAPITAL S.S
ATLANTICO                      WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE       URB                          PME           L
             VARELA                                                          ESP
                               REGION OF PALMAR DE VARELA
             PIOJO - JUAN DE
                               WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS IN PIOJO,
             ACOSTA -                                                  REGIONAL ARCOS
ATLANTICO                      JUAN DE ACOSTA, USIACURI,        URB                          PME           L
             USIACURI Y                                                    S.A. ESP
                               TUBAR?
             TUBARA



                                                    51
                                                                                        TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY     PROJECT                         AREA    OPERATOR           INST.        RISK Analysis
                                                                                       STRENGH.
                              CONSTRUCTION OF AN
             PUERTO
ATLANTICO                     INTERCEPTOR IN MALECON. FIRST   URB                          NC             L/PO
             COLOMBIA
                              STAGE OF THE SECOND PHASE

                              CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN LOS
             CARMEN DE
BOLIVAR                       MONTES DE MARIA FOR THE         URB                      IS (Partial)        S
             BOLIVAR
                              CENTER AREAS OF CARMEN DE
                              BOLIVAR MUNICIPALITIES.

                              CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN LOS
BOLIVAR      SAN JACINTO      MONTES DE MARIA FOR THE         URB                      IS (Partial)        S
                              CENTER AREAS OF THE SAN
                              JACINTO MUNICIPALITIES

                              CONSTRUCTION OF REGIONAL
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OF LOS
             SAN JUAN                                                 AGUAS DE LA
BOLIVAR                       MONTES DE MARIA PARA LAS        URB                         PME              M
             NEPOMUCENO                                              COSTA S.A. ESP
                              CABECERAS MUNICIPALITY OF SAN
                              JUAN NEPOMUCENO
                              REHABILITATION AND
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE REGIONAL
BOLIVAR      SANTA ROSA                                       URB                         PME              L
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OF SANTA
                              ROSA
                              REHABILITATION AND
                              REPLACEMENT OF UPTAKE AND
                              WATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS AND            GISCOL S.A. ESP
             SAN ESTANISLAO   OPTIMIZATION OF THE EXISTING
BOLIVAR      DE KOTSKA Y      WATER MAINS IN THE REGIONAL     URB                         PME              L
             VILLANUEVA       WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE
                              MUNICIPALITIES OF SAN
                              ESTANISLAO DE KOTSKA AND
                              VILLANUEVA




                                                  52
                                                                                       TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY     PROJECT                         AREA     OPERATOR         INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                      STRENGH.
                              CONSTRUCTION OF WWTP IN TUNJA
BOYACA       TUNJA                                            URB                       NC           L/PO
                              A MODEL OF 120 LPS - STAGE I

             RISARALDA, SAN   CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
CALDAS       JOSE Y           WATER SUPPLY AQUEDUCT OF        URB     EMPOCALDAS        NC            L
             BELALCAZAR       OCCIDENTE STAGE II

                              CONSTRUCTION OF A WTP IN THE
CAUCA        ARGELIA                                          URB                       NC            M
                              ARGELIA - CAUCA SYSTEM

                              CONSTRUCTION OF A WTP, TOWN
CAUCA        ARGELIA          OF MANGO MUNICIPALITY OF         R     ASOC. USUARIOS     CPC           M
                              ARGELIA - CAUCA
                              CONSTRUCTION OF AN AQUEDUCT
CAUCA        ARGELIA          IN THE TOWN OF SAN JUAN DE LA    R                         IS           M
                              GUADA
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A RURAL
CAUCA        ARGELIA          WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE       R                         IS           M
                              TOWN OF PUERTO RICO
                              CONSTRUCTION OF THE FIRST
CAUCA        ARGELIA          STAGE OF THE SEWER NETWORK IN    R                         IS           M
                              THE TOWN OF EL PLATEADO

                              CONSTRUCTION OF WORKS FOR
                              THE EXPANSION OF THE RURAL
CAUCA        CALDONO          WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE       R     ASOC. USUARIOS     CPC           M
                              COLLECTIVES OF LA BUITRERA Y
                              NUEVE VEREDAS

                              CONSTRUCTION FIRST STAGE OF
                              THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY
CAUCA        CALDONO                                           R     ASOC. USUARIOS     CPC           M
                              SYSTEM OF THE EL PESCADOR (13
                              RURAL TOWNS)



                                                   53
                                                                                     TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY   PROJECT                         AREA     OPERATOR         INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                    STRENGH.
                            REHABILITATION AND
                            OPTIMIZATION OF THE RURAL
CAUCA        CALOTO                                          R     ASOC. USUARIOS    CPC/IS         M
                            WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OF
                            CRUCERO DEL GUALI
                            REHABILITATION OF SEWERS AND
                            CONSTRUCTION WWTP FOR THE
CAUCA        FLORENCIA                                      URB                       NC            M
                            CENTER AREA OF THE FLORENCIA
                            MUNICIPALITY.

                            OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
                            SUPPLY SYSTEMS AND THE
CAUCA        FLORENCIA                                      URB                       NC            M
                            COMPLETION OF THE WTP FOR THE
                            FLORENCIA MUNICIPALITY

                            IMPROVEMENT OF THE
CAUCA        MERCADERES     DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS IN THE    URB                        IS           M
                            MUNICIPALITY OF MERCADERES
                            PROJECT WTP LAS GUACAS –
CAUCA        POPAYAN        PHASE I CONSTRUCTION AND        URB                       NC            L
                            OPTIMIZATION
                            WATER SUPPLY NETWORKS TO
CAUCA        POPAYAN        CONNECT CIUDADELA LAS GUACAS    URB                       NC            L
                            WITH THE NEW WTP
                            EXPANSION OF THE DISTRIBUTION
CESAR        BOSCONIA       NETWORK OF THE WATER SUPPLY     URB                        IS           M
                            SYSTEM
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE WATER
CESAR        CHIRIGUANA     SUPPLY AND SEWAGE SYSTEMS IN     R     ASOC. USUARIOS     CPC           M
                            THE TOWN OF LA AURORA
                            OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
CESAR        PAILITAS       MAINS OF THE MUNICIPAL WATER    URB                        IS           M
                            SUPPLY SYSTEM




                                                54
                                                                                         TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY     PROJECT                           AREA     OPERATOR         INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                        STRENGH.
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE URBAN
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM AND THE
CESAR        RIO DE ORO       CONSTRUCTION OF A WATER MAIN      URB                       NC            M
                              BETWEEN THE EL SALOBRE INTAKE
                              AND THE WTP
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
CORDOBA      CANALETE         SUPPLY SYSTEM OF THE URBAN        URB                     CPC/PDA         S
                              CENTER
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
CORDOBA      MOÑITOS                                            URB     COOPERATIVA       CPC           M
                              SUPPLY SYSTEM
                              OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF
              SAN BERNARDO
CORDOBA                       THE POTABLE WATER TREATMENT       URB                     CPC/PDA         S
             DEL VIENTO
                              PLANT OF THE MUNICIPALITY

                              FINANCING WORKS IN THE ACTION
             MOMIL CHIMA      PLAN THAT ARE PART OF THE
             PURISIMA, SAN    PROCESS OF HIRING A SPECIALIZED
                                                                       AGUAS DEL SINÚ
CORDOBA      ANDRES DE        OPERATOR WHO WOULD HELP           URB                       PME           L
                                                                          S.S ESP
             SOTAVENTO, SAN   IMPROVE THE WATER SUPPLY AND
             ANTEROY LORICA   SEWER SYSTEMS IN THE ERCA
                              REGION’S MUNICIPALITIES

                              CONSTRUCTION OF A SEWER
CORDOBA      MONTERIA         SYSTEM ON THE LEFT MARGIN OF      URB                       NC           L/PO
                              THE CITY OF MONTERIA
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
             PUERTO
CORDOBA                       SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE URBAN        URB                        IS           M
             ESCONDIDO
                              CENTER
                              CONSTRUCTION OF THE UPTAKE,
                                                                       ADMON PÚBLICA
             PUERTO           WATER MAINS AND WTP IN THE
CORDOBA                                                         URB     COOPERTIVA        CPC           M
             LIBERTADOR       NEW WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN
                                                                         AGUALCAS
                              PUERTO LIBERTADOR



                                                   55
                                                                                                        TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT     MUNICIPALITY   PROJECT                                      AREA      OPERATOR            INST.     RISK Analysis
                                                                                                       STRENGH.

                              REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
CORDOBA        SAN PELAYO                                                  URB                         CPC/PDA          S
                              OF SAN PELAYO



                              CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM IN
CORDOBA        COTORRA        COTORRA (Abrojal, Los Gomez, El paso         URB           APC             CPC            M
                              de las Flores, Los Cedros, La Culebra, Las
                              Arepas, Trementino and Moralito)


                              REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY STSEM
                              IN TOWNS LOS MORALES IN LORICA
               CGTO LOS
                              (El Carito, La Subida, Los Monos, Los
CORDOBA        MORALES EN                                                   R                             IS            M
                              Morales, Mata de caña, Rabogacho,
               LORICA
                              Sarandelo, La Peinada, Rodeito, Recula
                              and Tierralta)

                              CONSTRUCTION OF AN URBAN
CUNDINAMARCA   PULI                                                        URB    SERVIPULI S.A. ESP     CPC            M
                              WATER SUPPLY SYTEM – PHASE 1
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A REGIONAL
               CAQUEZA Y                                                                                CPC In
CUNDINAMARCA                  WATER SUPPLY SYTEM IN                         R                                           S
               CHIPAQUE                                                                                 progress
                              FRUTICAS - PHASE I
                              CONSTRUCTION OF THE FIRST
                              PHASE OF THE MASTER PLAN FOR A
CUNDINAMARCA   LA MESA        SEWER SYSTEM IN THE URBAN                    URB                            NC            L
                              CENTER OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF
                              LA MESA




                                                           56
                                                                                 TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT     MUNICIPALITY   PROJECT                         AREA   OPERATOR     INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                STRENGH.
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A WATER
                              SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE RURAL
                              TOWNS OF LA SALDA, MALBERTO,
CUNDINAMARCA   TOCAIMA        VILA, ALTO DE LA VIGA,           R                  NC           L/PO
                              ASOMADERO, EL VERDAL,
                              CAPOTES, LA MATA Y MORRO
                              AZUL)

                              COMPLETION OF THE FIRST PHASE
                              OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE
CUNDINAMARCA   ZIPAQUIRA                                      URB                 UfW           L
                              MUNICIPALITY OF ZIPAQUIRA’S
                              MASTER SEWER SYSTEM PLAN

                              CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERS FOR
               SAN JOSE DEL   THE VILL ANDREA-SAN JORGE
GUAVIARE                                                      URB                 NC            M
               GUAVIARE       AREA AND A WATER MAIN IN SAN
                              JOSE DE GUAVIARE

                              CONSTRUCTION OF WASTEWATER
                              TREATMENT CONSTRUCCION
HUILA          NEIVA                                          URB                 UfW           L
                              COLECTOS ON THE MARGIN OF THE
                              RIO LAS CEIBAS

                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
                              SUPPLY NETWORKS IN THE URBAN
LA GUAJIRA     FONSECA                                        URB                 NC           L/PO
                              ZONE, THE CENTER AREA, THE
                              ALTO PRADO AND EL CAMPO

                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
               SAN JUAN DEL
LA GUAJIRA                    SUPPLY NETWORK OF THE URBAN     URB                 NC           L/PO
               CESAR
                              ZONE, CENTER AND 20 DE JULIO

                              REPAIR OF THE WATER MAIN
               BARRANCAS ,    CHORRERAS FONSECA -
LA GUAJIRA                                                    URB                 NC           L/PO
               HATO NUEVO     BARRANCAS, NEW REGIONAL
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM

                                                  57
                                                                                     TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY   PROJECT                         AREA     OPERATOR         INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                    STRENGH.
                            CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW WTP OF
                            THE REGIONAL GRAVITY
                            AQUEDUCT OF THE MUNICIPALITY
LA GUAJIRA   DIBULLA        OF DIBULLA AND THE TOWNS OF     URB                        IS           M
                            LA PUNTA, LOS REMEDIOS, LAS
                            FLORES, CAMPANA NUEVO AND
                            VIEJO

                            CONSTRUCTION OF SEWERAGE
LA GUAJIRA   RIOHACHA       NETWORKS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD    URB                     PGR-SSPD       L/PO
                            OF BUENOS AIRES
                            REDUCE VULNERABILITY OF THE
LA GUAJIRA   RIOHACHA                                       URB                     PGR-SSPD       L/PO
                            WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
                            OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
MAGDALENA    ARACATACA      SUPPLY SYSTEM OF THE            URB    AGUAS CAPITAL      NC           L/PO
                            MUNICIPALITY
                            OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
MAGDALENA    EL RETEN       SUPPLY SYTEM OF THE             URB    COOPERATIVA        CPC           M
                            MUNICIPALITY OF LA CABECERA

                            OPTIMIZATION OF THE POTABLE
                            WATER DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
MAGDALENA    FUNDACION                                      URB                       UfW          L/PO
                            OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF LA
                            CABECERA

                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE POTABLE
                            WATER TREATMENT PLANT - PHASE          SOCIEDAD POR
META         DEPARTAMENTO                                   URB                       CPC           M
                            I, REGIONAL WATER SUPPLY                 ACCIONES
                            SYSTEM OF ARIARI

                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE PRINICPAL
NARIÑO       EL TAMBO       SEWER OF THE SEWER SYSTEM OF    URB    ASOC. USUARIOS     CPC           M
                            THE MUNICIPALITY OF TAMBO




                                                58
                                                                                      TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY   PROJECT                         AREA     OPERATOR          INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                     STRENGH.
                            OPERATIONAL OPTIMIZATION OF
                                                                       JUNTA
NARIÑO       LOS ANDES      THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OF      URB                        CPC           M
                                                                   ADMINISTRADORA
                            THE MUNICIPALITY
                            CONSTRUCTION OF A WATER
NARIÑO       CUMBAL         SUPPLY SYSTEM IN THE URBAN      URB                         IS           M
                            CENTER
                            REPLACEMENT OF THE
                            DISTRIBUTION NETWORK FO THE
NARIÑO       SAMANIEGO                                      URB                         IS           S
                            WATER SYPPLY SYSTEM OF THE
                            MUNICIPALITY OF CABECERA

                            WATER INTAKE STRUCTURE LAS
NARIÑO       PASTO          PIEDRAS FOR THE WATER SUPPLY    URB                        NC            L
                            SYSTEM OF PASTO

                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE WATER
                            SUPPLY AND SEWER NETWORKS
NORTE DE                                                           COOPERATIVA. EL
             HERRAN         FOR THE RESETTLEMENT AREA IN    URB                        CPC           M
SANTANDER                                                           TAME HERRAN
                            THE URBAN CENTER OF THE
                            MUNICIPALITY
                            CONSTRUCTION OF A SEWER
NORTE DE                    NETWORK IN THE MIRADOR -
             LOS PATIOS                                     URB                        NC           L/PO
SANTANDER                   VIDELSO AND SUR DEL MUNICIPIO
                            SECTORS
                            CONSTRUCTION OF THE FIRST
NORTE DE                    STAGE OF THE INTERCEPTOR OF
             OCAÑA                                          URB                        NC            L
SANTANDER                   AGUAS NEGRAS DEL RIO
                            CHUIQUITO
                            CONSTRUCTION OF A WATER PUMP
                            STATION THAT GUARANTEES A
QUINDIO      ARMENIA        SUPPLY OF RAW WATER TO THE      URB                        NC            L
                            WATER TREATMENT PLANT THAT
                            SERVICES ARMENIA



                                                59
                                                                                         TYPE OF
DEPARTMENT   MUNICIPALITY     PROJECT                         AREA      OPERATOR          INST.    RISK Analysis
                                                                                        STRENGH.
                              OPTIMIZATION OF THE WATER
SAN ANDRES   PROVIDENCIA      SUPPLY SYSTEM OF LA ISLA DE     URB                         NC            S
                              PROVIDENCIA
                              CONSTRUCTION OF A WWTP IN THE
                                                                     ESP VALLE DE SAN
                              MUNICIPALITY OF VALLE DE SAN
SANTANDER    VALLE SAN JOSE                                   URB       JOSE SA ESP       CPC           M
                              JOSE TO IMPROVE WATER QUALITY
                                                                         ESVALLE
                              IN THE FONCE RIVER
             PUENTE           NEW WWTP RIO SUAREZ-PUENTE
SANTANDER                                                     URB                         NC            M
             NACIONAL         NACIONAL
                              CONSTRUCTION OF THE MAIN
SANTANDER    CHIPATA          SEWER IN THE URBAN CENTER OF    URB                          IS           M
                              THE MUNICIPALITY OF CHIPATA

                              CONSTRUCTION OF A
SANTANDER    CHIPATA          STORMWATER SEWER NETWORK IN     URB                          IS           M
                              THE URBAN CENTER

                              CONSTRUCTION OF WATER MAINS
SANTANDER    MALAGA                                           URB                          IS           M
                              JAIMITO (CONCEPCION)
                                                                          ESP DE
                                                                       ACUEDUCTO
                              OPTIMIZATION AND EXPANSION OF
                                                                     ALCATARILLADO Y
SUCRE        CHALAN           THE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM OF       R                          CPC           M
                                                                        ASEO DEL
                              CHALAN
                                                                       MUNICIPIO DE
                                                                      CHALAN SA ESP
                              CONSTRUCTION OF THE NORTHERN
TOLIMA       LIBANO           INTERCEPTOR, QUEBRADA SAN       URB                          IS           M
                              JUAN
                              CONSTRUCTION OF THE REGIONAL
                              WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM, OLAYA
TOLIMA       ORTEGA                                            R     ASOC. USUARIOS       CPC           M
                              HERRERA, CANALIES, BALSILLAS
                              AND GUAPI




                                                   60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 39061
         SAN ANDRÉS Y                                                                          75°W                                                                                                    70°W
          PROVIDENCIA
                                                                                                                                                   Puerto Bolívar
12°35’
                                                                                                                                                                               A
  San Andres
                                                                                                                                                                      J   IR
                                                                                                                                  Ríohacha                         UA
     San
                1
                           Providencia                                                                                                                         G   6
                                                                                                                                                         LA
    Andres                                                                                 Santa Marta
                                           13°20’                                   Barranquilla
          0           2

12°30’
              MILES                  0           2              AT L ? N T I C O
                                         MILES                                                     8                                                                                                     COLOMBIA




                                                                                                                           A
                                                                         Cartegena                                                             Valledupar




                                                                                                                       N
                81°40’          81°22’




                                                                                                                  LE
                                                                                                            DA
 10°N
                                                                                                                               CESAR                                    Lago de
                               C a r ibb e an                                            Maganqué




                                                                                                        AG
                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                     4                                 Maracaibo




                                                                                                       M
                                                                             Sincelejo
                                    Sea
         PA
                   NA                                                                                       El Baneo



                                                                                           SU
                                                                                           SU
                                                                    Monteria
                          M
                                                                                                C
                                                                                                CR



                                                                                                                   AR
                                                     Acandí                                    1                                                NORTE DE

                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                               Ocaña
                           A




                                                                                                                                               SANTANDER



                                                                                                                 L?V
                                                               Turbo                       A
                                                                             D     OB                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R.B. DE
                                                                                                           BO
                                                                     C    ÓR                                           5                         Cúcuta
                                                                            10                                                                                                                                       VENEZUELA
                                                                                                 uca
                                                                                               Ca




                                                                                                                    Bucaramanga
                                                                                         Yarumal
                                                                                                                     le   na                                                              Arauca
                                                                                                                  da               Socorro
                                                                           ANTIOQUIA                        Ma
                                                                                                              g
                                                                                                                                                                                ARAUCA




                                                                                                                                                             C?
                                                           Atra




                                                                                           9                                                    ER
                                                                                                                                AND                                                   Casanare
                                                                                                                 SANT
                                                               to




                                                                                                                                                         YA
         PA C IF IC                                                                  Medellin                                    5                                                                                                        Puerto

                                                                                                                                                     BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Carreño
         OC E AN                                      Quibdo                                             Chiquinquirá                                1                 CASANARE                             Puerto
                                                  CHOCÓ                                        S                                                                                                            Nueva
                                                                                           LDA 1                                           Tunja
                                                                                     CA
                                                                                      Manizales         CUNDINA-                                               Yopal
 5°N                                             RISARALD?                                                                                                                                                                 Santa Rita                            5°N
                                                                    Cartago          Pereira             MARCA
                                                                                                            BOGOT?                                                                                     VICHADA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Atacavi
                                                                                                         5                                                                ta
                                                                                     Armenia                                                                           Me
                                                           QUINDIO                                                                                                       San Pedro
                                                                              1     Ibaque             Giradot                                                                            Gaviotas
                                                                                                                                  Villavincencio                   Chaviva                                  a   da
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vich
                                                                                                   MA
                                Buenaventura                              Buga
                                     VALLE DEL                                                 L I2                       DISTRITO                                                                                                   Puerto
                                                                                      TO
                                                                         Palmira                                          CAPITAL                                                                                                    Inirída
                                      CAUCA Cali                                                                                                 M E TA
                                                                                                                 San Juan
                                                                                                                de Arama                                 1
                                                                                   Neiva                                                                               Guaviare
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUAIN?A
                                          CAUCA                     13            HUILA                                                                       San José
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mapiripana                    Tabaquén
                                     Guapí Popayan                                   1                                                                        del Guaviare                                                  Brujas
                                                                                                       San Vicente
                                                                                     Garzon            del Caguán
                                                                                                                                                             Calamar
                           Patía
       Tumaco




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Neg
                                                                                      Florencia                                                    G U AV I A R E
                      NARIÑO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ro
                                                                                                                                                               1                                                                                  San Rafael
                                5                                                                                                                        Miraflores                             Mitu
                                         Pasto
                                                                                                       Cagu




                                                                    Mocoa                                                                                                             Vau
                                                                                                                                                                                          pés
                                                                                                           án




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yavarate
                                           Ipiales         PUTUM                                                CAQUET?                                                             VA U P É S
                                                        Puerto               AY
                                                          Asis                      O                                                            Macujer
                                                                                                                  Puerto
                                                                                                                  Huitoto
 0°N
                    E C U A DOR                                                                          Puerto
                                                                                                         Leguízamo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0°N
                                                                                                                                           Puerto                                          Lérida
                                                                                                                                           Pizarro
   0            80             160               240           320 Kilometers                                                                                          Caq
                                                                                                                                                                          u   etá
                                                                                                                                                    Puerto
                                                                                                                                                 Santander
   0          40          80         120             160       200 Miles                                                                                                                Locas de
                                                                                                                                Ptu                                                     Cahuinari
                                                                                                                                    ma
                                                                                                                                       y   o                                                           La Pedrera
                                                                                                                                                                   AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                                El Encanto
                                           COLOMBIA                                                                                                                             1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRA ZI L
   WATER AND SANITATION
  SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
                       PERU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the Map Design Unit of The
                      PROJECT DEPARTMENTS                                            RIVERS                                                                                                                                             World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
          13          NUMBER OF PROJECTS                                             DEPARTMENT                                                                                                                                         any other information shown
                                                                                     BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                 Leticia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        on this map do not imply, on
                      CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL                                                                                                                                      legal status of any territory,
                      DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                            BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                         or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                         75°W                                                                                                    70°W                             boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FEBRUARY 2012
