Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25283
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P6821; IDA-26850)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.0 MILLION
(US$24.53 MILLION)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
CHAD
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
April 7, 2003
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1994)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1000 = US$ 1.74
US$ I = CFAF 575
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRA           Association de Cooperation Rurale en Afrique (NGO)
ASPOP          Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
AVB            Agent de Vulgarisation de Base (Extension Agent)
DOP            Direction de l 'Organisation Pastorale (Direction of Livestock Organization)
GTZ            German development agency
MAE            Ministry of Agriculture and Environment
MEH            Ministere de l 'Elevage et de 1 'Hydrauliquepastorale (Ministry of
Livestock and Hydraulics)
ONDR           Office National de Developpement Rural (National Rural Development Office)
QAE            Quality-at-Entry (evaluation)
PO             Producer organization
PPP            Perimetres Pastoraux Pilotes
PRAOP          Programme de Renforcement de l 'Appui aux Organisations de
Producteurs (Program to strengthen support to Producer Organizations)
PSAP           Projet des Services Agricoles et Pastoraux (Agricultural
and Livestock Services Project)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SAG            Specialistes d'Appui aux Groupements
SAWA           Organisation d 'Appui aux Initiatives de Developpement (A Chadian
NGO, supported by Italian aid)
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Director:  Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:    Ousmane Seck



CHAD
Agricultural and Livestock Services Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                              23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8: Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                  33



I
I
I



Project ID. P000501                                      Project Name Agricultural and Livestock Services
Project
Team Leader. Ousmane Seck                                TL Unit AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date. April 7, 2003
1. Project Data
Name Agricultural and Livestock Services Project    L/C/TFNumber- PPFI-P6821;
IDA-26850
Country/Department CHAD                                                 Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (90%); Central
government administration (5%); Agricultural
marketing and trade (5%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   01/15/1987                             Effective: 10/16/1995
Appraisal:  06/30/1994                               MTR: 08/13/1999
Approval:  03/14/1995                              Closing: 03/31/2002         09/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners* GTZ, NGOs (ACRA, SAWA)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Calhsto Madavo                            Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:     Ali Mahmoud Khadr                         Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Nils Tcheyen
Team Leader at ICR.  Ousmane Seck                              Alassane Sow
ICR Primary Author   ; Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlhkely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U
Project at Risk at Any Time. Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The goals (development objectives) of the Agricultural and Livestock Services Project ("Projet des Services
Agricoles et Pastoraux"-PSAP) were to increase agricultural and livestock productivity among the
farmers of Chad in an environmentally sustainable manner and to raise farmers' incomes in all three
agricultural zones. To attain the goals, the project had the following operational objectives: (a) to reshape
the extension service into a demand-driven service that would address farmers' and agro-pastoralists' needs
better than earlier approaches had done; (b) to establish a producer-oriented research method for
agriculture and livestock research and strengthen the research-extension-user linkages; and (c) to strengthen
producer organizations (POs) through management and technical training.
The goals of the project were important for the country at the time of appraisal and remain so today.
Despite good agricultural potential in Chad, agricultural production in the 1980s was disappointing; the
annual growth rate was only 1.2 percent (compared with 2.9 percent in other Sahelian countries). The
Government's strategy in the rural sector was discussed with donors at a round-table conference in 1993.
The key components of the Government strategy were as follows: (a) to establish an enabling environmnent
for production and marketing of agricultural surpluses (which also implied that the Government would not
be directly involved in production and marketing); (b) to improve the network of roads; (c) to initiate
approaches to improve the effectiveness of agricultural extension and research; and (d) to promote producer
organizations that would assume a larger role in managing group activities in rural communities.
The project was intended particularly to support the strategy elements (c) and (d), which were also
mentioned in a Policy Letter on Extension of 1995 (attached to the appraisal report). The project objectives
were also in line with the recommendations of the 1993 World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy Paper
for Chad and with the Bank's general poverty reduction strategy, especially aimed at reaching specific
groups of rural poor. Thus, the project fell under the Bank's Targeted Intervention Programs; moreover,
because the project focused to some extent on women groups and activities, it also met the objectives of the
Women-in-Development initiative.
In the staff appraisal report (SAR), the objectives were presented in qualitative terms, apparently because
the facilities under the project were intended to be demand-driven. Although PSAP was not a very complex
project, it might have benefited from more specific objectives and targets, but at the time the project was
prepared and evaluated, no logical framework with quantitative and qualitative targets was required. When
a full-scale logical framework became a standard requirement in mid-1990s, project authorities and IDA
supervision missions prepared the necessary monitoring indicators. These indicators were further developed
into a logical framework for the project in 1997, and clarified in the context of the mid-term evaluation in
1998.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was amended in 1999-2000, in part on the basis of observations made at the mid-term review
in August 1999, but even more so in response to recommendations made by subsequent supervision
missions and to the results of a conference arranged in 1999 for a large group of grass-roots beneficiaries.
It had become apparent that the project's development goals would not be fully attained under the original
project design, even if the components were implemented as planned (which was not the case, see Chapter
4). In 1998-1999, the project performance was evaluated as unsatisfactory because of (a) the limited
development and adoption of new technologies; (b) delays in decentralizing the project management; and (c)
high operating costs, especially at the central level, that made it very difficult for the project to be
sustainable.
-2-



The general strategy for amending the project was to realign the project activities within the existing
structure of the project and reallocate the funds so as to improve its impact. The new approaches included
decentralizing the operations and triming the organizational structure, expanding the activities of the
producer organizations and private fuims associated with agricultural production, and encouraging
producer organizations to make small investments in village infrastructure. As a result, a subcomponent for
the producer organizations component was established and called "Programme de Renforcement de
l'Appui aux Organisations des Producteurs"-PRAOP.
The development objective of the project, however, was not revised. The Bank's Legal Department
determined that the original development objective was broad enough to cover the expanded approach, and
it was unnecessary to bring the amendments of the project's Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to the
Bank's Board for approval. The operational objectives of the project were modified to reflect the new
understanding of the methods necessary to attain sustainable development and to incorporate the new
priorities within the framework of the project so far as possible, while also remaining within its legal
framework. The objectives were then spelled out as follows: (a) to strengthen producer organizations by
developing their operational capacities and supporting their economic and environmental initiatives in the
zones; (b) to develop new policies and strategies for agricultural extension by helping to facilitate the
decentralization process already started, adjusting the agro-pastoral extension to the different ecological
zones, and ensuring the sustainability of extension by gradually encouraging the beneficiaries and the
private sector to take over selected activities; (c) to devise a reform program for the cotton sector that
would make it more dynamic; and (d) to provide resources and link extension and research to serve the
areas that would be affected by the new oil pipeline to be built, by using community-driven pilot operations
for new needs not foreseen earlier.
The modifications in the project and its objectives were appropriate, because the original project design,
which was mainly intended to improve the effectiveness of agricultural extension by using the
widely-promoted Training and Visit (T&V) system and adaptive research, was relatively costly and
difficult to maintain after external funds had been exhausted. In addition, a new paradigm for rural
development had become widely accepted in the 1990s. According to it, the development problems of the
rural poor cannot be solved by concentrating on making one activity or a few effective, especially through
the support of outside funds. These development problems stem from many different factors; moreover,
because these activities cannot be financed and managed by the governments, the rural population itself has
to become fully engaged in all development efforts and take major responsibility for their management. The
government's role must be that of a facilitator, finding resources, helping with planning, and providing
public services in activities and areas where the private sector cannot be expected to operate.
The new approach meant that the extension activity and formnation of producer organizations under the
PSAP needed "accompanying" investments to achieve the development goals. Implementing of an extension
management system, even if implemented efficiently, and forming thousand of producer organizations are
not sufficient for achieving program goals, but these activities must be supported by investments in
"upstream activities" such as farm input supply, rural finance services, provision of equipment, treatment
of animals, and provision of wells. Furthermore, on the "downstream" side, storage, small-scale processing
facilities, and marketing must be available if the expected additional income from increased production is to
be achieved.
The revised project operational objectives, with a major shift of focus in operations from the extension and
adaptive research to producer organizations and financial support for their investments, corresponded with
the new paradigm of rural development in the conditions of Chad to the extent possible and within the
- 3 -



resources available.
3.3 Original Components:
The project components and their costs were as follows:
(a)    Agricultural extension (US$19.4 million), aimed at consolidating and improving extension
services to be provided by the National Rural Development Office ("Office national de developpement
rural"--ONDR) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment (MAE) and the Directorate of Pastoral
Organization ("Direction de l'Organisation Pastorale"-DOP) under the Ministry of Livestock and
Hydraulics ("Ministere de l'Elevage et de l'Hydraulique Pastorale"-MEH). The component was to cover
crop extension, livestock production, and natural resource management. It was to be coordinated nationally,
and it was expected to gradually spread to all fanming areas;
(b)    Participative and adaptive research (US$3.7 million), aimed at identifying and resolving on-farm
production constraints through the participation of farmers, extension staff, and three interdisciplinary
research teams derived from, and backed by three Chadian research institutes and regional and intemational
research centers;
(c)    Producer organizations component (US$1.5 million), aimed at promoting farmer participation in
development efforts and self-management of group activities. The promotion was to be provided via
training and technical assistance for activities such as savings/credit management, produce and livestock
marketing, group management, distribution of farm inputs, and maintenance of agricultural equipment;
(d)    Project preparation facility (US$1.0 million), used for formulating the project concept, carrying
out the necessary studies, and planning before the project was appraised.
The project differed from the standard projects financed in the sector in that no funds were reserved for
project coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. The reasons were that existing agencies could coordinate
the different project operations, and that the incremental funds needed for their expenses (not for salaries)
could be incorporated in the operational components.
3.4 Revised Components:
The amendment to the Development Credit Agreement in 1999-2000 did not cause a major revision of the
components, and the new approach and elements were accommodated within the existing structure. In
particular, funds were reserved to establish five farmers' service and management centers and involve
producers in decision making ("put them in the driver's seat") in rural development activities affecting
them. An allocation for consultants helped finance the preparation of a new extension strategy and a cotton
study and to finance a study on agriculture in oil-exploration and pipeline areas; another allocation made it
possible to provide training for newly recruited female extension agents and private-sector partners.
The new subcomponent, PRAOP, was to be implemented by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that
were to be chosen in accordance with national competitive bidding arrangements developed by IDA and the
Government. The selected NGOs were probably the best ones to implement the subcomponent and to
address the needs of the rural target population because they were already active in the areas where the
subcomponent was to be piloted, that is, ACRA and SAWA in the Sahelian zone and GTZ (bilateral
agency) in three districts in the Soudanian zone.
3.5 Quality at Entry-
No formal Quality-at-Entry Review (QAE) was performed on the project, but the overall quality at entry
-4 -



must be rated as unsatisfactory in view of the several aspects and risk factors not noticed at appraisal.
Government policies enabled the private sector to get involved in implementing the project, even though the
public sector was originally required to implement most project activities. The project linked the services
with existing or potential actors in the field, that is, governmental bodies and non-governmental
organizations as well as with the population itself (through a group approach). Nevertheless, in retrospect,
it may be that the project was simplistic, because it did not guarantee meeting the important needs of
farmers, such as farm input supply, marketing, and finance for the small investments required to kick-start
development in poor rural villages. This shortcoming was partially corrected during the amendment of the
project in 1999-2000. There were some delays in starting the project activities, particularly in the research
component, but to some extent in the producer organizations component as well. However, the largest
element of the project, agricultural extension, started close to the timetable projected at appraisal.
The project was preceded by a two-year pilot phase in which the main hypotheses were tested and many of
the operational procedures and selection criteria needed to implement the project were developed. Project
formulators incorporated into the project numerous lessons learned from similar projects elsewhere, but the
project authorities had later to make several adjustments to the general approach used at that time in the
Training and Visit and research projects elsewhere. Moreover, there was an overestimation, by the project
formulators and the appraisal team, of the capacity of the research institutes to develop new research
findings and convert them to "extension messages" useful for farmers (see 4.2, "Adaptive Research).
"Piggybacked Activities." The project financed initiatives not envisaged during appraisal but added
through amendments to the Development Credit Agreement. These initiatives included a study of reforms
recommended for the cotton sector (made for the "Cellule Technique de mise en oeuvre des R6formes du
sous-secteur du cotton"); a study and development of a strategy for restructuring of the agricultural
extension system (financed for the "Comite de reflection sur la vulgarisation agro-pastorale"); and
development of plans to improve agriculture in petrol-producing areas through a "Fonds d'Appui aux
Initiatives Locales - FACIL" (for a "Groupe restreint de travail").
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievenment of objective*
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, but progress was uneven. Project
implementation started well, and the IDA supervision missions in 1995 and 1996 assessed the achievement
of the project's development objectives and implementation objectives as highly satisfactory. However, one
year later the assessment fell to satisfactory, and by the next year the ratings of the research component and
project management had declined to the status of unsatisfactory, gradually pulling the overall assessment of
the project down to unsatisfactory. Only after the project was restructured did the rating of the criteria used
for evaluating the overall achievement level start rising, ending at the satisfactory level for all components
except for adaptive research (see Section 4.2).
No quantified development targets were set at appraisal, but satisfactory results were obtained in those
targets agreed upon at mid-term evaluation, except for the research component (for an assessment of output
by components see Section 4.2 and Annex l). No project-specific Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was
calculated for the project either at appraisal or at completion (see Section 4.3). Nevertheless, nearly all
calculations on the project investments that lend themselves to financial analysis indicate strongly profitable
results to beneficiaries (see Annex 3), thus alleviating poverty among the project target groups, a major
goal for the project. Several other development impacts, including substantial institution and capacity
building, also can be recorded. Implementation capacity at the national level was much strengthened,
particularly in ONDR, at the regional and local levels in the extension service and producer organizations
- 5 -



service, as well as in the three NGOs implementing the producer organizations subcomponent PRAOP,
and, most encouragingly, among the more than 6,000 producer groups that were registered as "authorized
bodies" with the help of the project.
Although the monitoring and evaluation activity under the project was inadequate in the early years of the
project, studies undertaken by ONDR at the end of the project found that yields and food security had
improved for the producers in the project areas who had adopted the agricultural and livestock technology
that was disseminated. However, the results do not reflect the overall situation in Chad because only 20 %
of the farmers have been reached. Income among adopting farmers increased by 77 percent for those in the
Sudanese zone and by 99 percent for the livestock owners in the Sahelian zone on the basis of PSAP's own
monitoring (see Annex 1). These increases may not be attributed only to the project, because other factors
also might have contributed, including exogeneous factors such as weather conditions. For information of
the seven project years, (i) three were above average with an adequate rainfall for the type of agriculture
and livestock practiced in Chad; (ii) three years were of an average type; and (iii) one year was a drought
year. It is particularly noteworthy that women actively participated in the extension and PO components.
More than 550 contact groups under the extension component and five groups under PRAOP consisted
entirely of rural women.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Extension Component is rated as satisfactory. The objective of the component as originally
formulated--that is, to reshape the extension service into a demand-driven service that would meet farmers'
and agro-pastoralists' needs better than the earlier approaches had done--was achieved as intended. The
planned extension approach--the Training and Visit extension management system--was introduced
throughout the whole country with all its elements, including reorganization of staff, organization of
systematic bi-weekly training for the field workers and monthly training for subject-matter specialists,
regular supervision of staff, unified extension (only one field-level agent advising farmers or farmer groups
on all topics), dissemination of extension messages to a large segment of farmers, and monitoring of
activities organized.
During the latter part of the project, the Govenmment and IDA supervision missions judged the central
administration by ONDR to be too expensive (however, see Section 5.3 (e)). As a result, it was decided to
develop new strategies for agricultural extension to speed up the decentralization process already started,
to adjust the agro-pastoral extension to the different ecological zones, and to ensure the sustainability of
extension by encouraging the beneficiaries and private sector to gradually take over selected activities. This
objective was also achieved. First, a national committee carried out an extensive diagnostic study; then
regional committees worked on the necessary regional problems and adjustments; and finally ONDR made
several adjustments in the original system and programs. These adjustments included decentralization of
decision making, budgeting, and use of funds to the regional level, downsizing of staff (reducing
"non-indispensable staff' by 150 persons), reducing the frequency of training meetings and visits to
producer groups, and introducing "Radio Rurale" to reduce the extension costs and promote rural
development know-how.
During the last two years of the project, the effectiveness of the fieldwork suffered because the Government
failed to provide counterpart funds for the mobility of extension staff and training (however, see Section 5.2
(a)); moreover, as mentioned earlier, some funds were transferred from this component to the producer
organizations subcomponent PRAOP. Nevertheless, substantial capacity building had taken place and
continued. Also, the quality of work with a smaller workforce, with the changes made, proved to have
ameliorated. An extensive number of agricultural messages ("themes) were demonstrated and conveyed to
- 6-



farmers (see Annex 9), and the rate of adoption and improvement in most of the crops and products the
messages dealt with were judged to be satisfactory (see Chapter 4.1 and Annex 1). On average, during the
last three years of the project, the agricultural extension agents ("Agents de vulgarization de base"
-AVBs) organized 21,581 demonstration plots to promote new agricultural technology and 10,782
demonstration plots on cattle rearing. Through these demonstrations AVBs reached, in an average year,
3,767 villages (81.8 percent of the target) and 140,700 farming families (some 218,000 men and 168,000
women, on average), which amounted to 20.1 percent of the total farming population and 50.3 percent of
the target set for the component. As a result of the cumulative effect of the previous years' training and
demonstrations, the number of farrners adopting at least one recommendation reached 373,800 in the last
year of the project.
The Adaptive Research Component, which was to bring a participative and adaptive approach into
agricultural research and to support extension work, is rated as unsatisfactory. The component took a long
time to get going, and once it was launched it still provided only a limited number of new and practical
messages. While the extension staff were eager to improve the extension system and promote new
technology, the research component originally appeared to have suffered from management's reluctance to
move from basic and applied research to adaptive research, and from a lack of appropriate expertise and
field experience among the staff intended to support the project. These problems were coupled with an
overestimation, by the project formulators and the appraisal team, of the capacity of the research institutes
to develop new research findings and convert them into "extension messages" useful for farmers.
Despite the foregoing comments, the research provided some valuable extension messages, especially in
recommending new cereal varieties. During the last three project years, the project laid out a foundation for
future improvements in adaptive and participative research. The research staff carried out an increasing
number of trials and tests on farmers' fields, trained subject-matter specialists and producers, and
conducted station research on farmers' concems about activities for which no immediate solution was
found in the repository of extension knowledge. By the end of the project, agricultural research had been
reoriented to include more adaptive and participative research than previously.
In retrospect, it appears that the project suffered less from the scarcity of research support than might have
been expected. There were many extension messages ("themes") that could be derived from best practices
of the farmers and extension staff, and that could, when adapted by a larger number of farmers, bring about
substantial improvements (Annex 9). However, had the research been better able to support the extension
activities, better results could have been reached, and, for the long term, new "themes" will be needed.
The Producer Organizations Component is rated as satisfactory both for achieving its original objectives
and for achieving the objectives of its pilot subcomponent, PRAOP, introduced when the project was
restructured in 2000. As a pilot operation, the pilot subcomponent can be assessed as highly satisfactory in
gaining the experience and developing the procedures and manuals needed for a larger operation.
The original tasks were to establish a network of farmer-group specialists ("Specialistes d'Appui aux
Groupements"-SAGs), formalize producer organizations (that is, have them officially registered and
authorized to be partners in commercial transactions), train their committee members and ordinary
members, and link POs with banks and other commercial establishments. At appraisal, the target number of
trained SAGs was set at 32, and the target number of supervisors at 3. In practice, the project engaged 38
SAGs and 3 supervisors to assist and train farmer groups. For other aspects no target figures were set at
appraisal, but all the objectives set at the mid-term review were exceeded: the project helped some 6,565
producer organizations to become legal entities and be partners in commercial transactions (the target was
1,200); helped 1,674 POs (target: 700) establish links with banks and other commercial entities; and helped
-7 -



train 4,758 committee members and 19,366 ordinary members (the targets were 1,680 and 2,240),
including about 600 women.
As already mentioned, the pilot component--"Programme de Renforcement de l'Appui aux Organisations
de Producteurs" (PRAOP)--was designed to provide partial grant financing for small infrastructure
subprojects that POs wanted to make. The Government and IDA supervision missions had observed that a
lack of funding for these subprojects prevented them from benefiting fully from the activities of the original
PO component and advice given by the project-financed staff. The equivalent of US$1.48 million that was
reserved for the pilot (after the expenses of the implemented agencies) was expected to be enough to finance
about 300 PO investments. This objective was not fully achieved, because special programs "piggybacked"
onto the project (as discussed later in this section) reduced the actual funds available for the pilot
investments to only US$1.0 million. However, this amount allowed about 100 PO investments to be
financed in less than two years of the pilot's period. In addition, the implementing agencies (NGOs and
local Selection Committees) have processed more than 100 other investment proposals, which are thus
awaiting release of additional funds for the purpose (see the chapter on Sustainability in Section 6).
As mentioned, the pilot component provided satisfactory results for an extension of this activity beyond the
five districts where it was active. The implementing NGOs quickly established the necessary network,
including Selection Committees composed of local stakeholders, and trained a large number of producer
organizations to take care of the necessary formalities and even implement or supervise the execution of
subprojects. They tested and commented on procedures developed before the start of the field activities
(some modifications will be made for the follow-on project) and monitored the activities with care. Thus,
although the number of PO investments were below the original estimates, partly because the funds were
not sufficient for a larger number, the institutional developments were obvious.
The pilot provided valuable information on other aspects as well, including that the administrative costs by
the NGOs implementing it were high (now ranging from 30 percent to 66 percent of the funds available for
the subcomponent) and that there was not much variety in the subprojects financed. The subprojects that
have been processed but not yet financed have enough variety, however.
"Piggybacked Activities." The implementation of these activities was rated as satisfactory as they have
resulted in practical benefits or are expected to do so in the near future. The support provided to the
Technical Committee of the Cotton Sector Reform (Comite Technique de Reforme du Secteur Coton-
CTRC) by the project facilitated the achievement of the following activities: capacity strengthening for
300,000 cotton producing families in the sudanese zone in view of their active participation in the design
and implementation of the cotton sector reform program. A local coordination committee (LCC) of
producer organizations has been implemented in each of the nine Cotontchad factories. Since April 2000,
producer prices are detenrined by a committee consisting of LCCs and representatives of Cotontchad,
without government intervention, and based on a scheme that links the producer price to world cotton
prices. In addition, other reforms issues are being successfully monitored by the CTRC. Moreover, the
lessons learned from the pilot operation (Fonds d'Appui aux Initiatives Locales - FACIL) are paving the
way for the design and the implementation of a follow-up operation.
The Project Preparation Phase, financed under a Project Preparation Facility, was satisfactory. The
project was preceded by a relatively long period of preparation, including establishment of the ONDR
under a Project Preparation Facility in 1991; establishment of a Direction of Livestock Organization (
Direction de l 'Organisation Pastorale - DOP) in 1992; evaluation of the tests carried out by ONDR and
DOP with support from several donor agencies in late 1992; founding of a Chadian committee of
evaluation of the pilot tests in 1993 and of a proposal made for a project; preappraisal of the project
- 8 -



proposal in May 1994; and appraisal of the proposed project in July 1994 by IDA and the aforementioned
Chadian committee. Lessons from the pilot phase confirmed that linking research messages with extension
and a community-based approach was a valid way to teach poor rural people how to generate income.
Also, the testing and preparation process that involved the Chadian authorities and producers ensured that
the "ownership" of the project was really Chadian.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project was designed primarily to address problems caused by rural poverty, weak agricultural
productivity, and the need for capacity-building and institutional improvements through better agricultural
services and stronger producer organizations. Thus, the project did not lend itself to economic analysis, and
no such analysis was prepared at appraisal or at project completion.
The cost-effectiveness of the project is rated as satisfactory. Using the average outreach figures for the last
three project years and the average annual costs of the extension and research components (mcluding
project administration and monitoring), the cost per family that was reached amounted to only US$17 per
annum (total cost of the extension and research components, US$17.6 million, divided by 7 years, divided
by average annual number of families, 140,700). For the producer organizations component, the cost per
producer organizations that were helped to become legal entities was US$244 per unit. This figure includes
training of committee members and ordinary members and linking POs with economic agencies. If about
one-third of the cost is estimated to have been used for training, the average training cost per person would
be US$22. On average, PO subprojects cost about US$10,000 each, ranging from a few hundred dollars to
US$27,000 (which was the maximum allowed under the rules), and the cost of administration by NGOs
was about the same. However, the high cost of administration included the initial cost of establishing the
necessary advisory, administrative, and training network, and that cost would have declined if the
subcomponent had continued longer.
4.4 Financial rate of return
No overall financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal or for the ICR. However, numerous typical
investments for subprojects were projected at preappraisal of the follow-on project, which concentrates
primarily on investments to be made by producer organizations. These subprojects, some of which relate to
infrastructure but most of which cover land development and improved production, showed positive
financial rates of return (FRR) or net present values (NVP) (see Annex 3), although the yields of cotton
and irrigated rice remained below the targets set and those achieved in neighboring countries (due to a lack
of inputs, appropriate varieties, and storage facilities in producer organizations). These current calculations
and the improvements in crop yields mentioned in Annex I indicate that project investments will provide
strongly positive FRR or NPV.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project can record modest institutional impacts. ONDR, which in the absence of private service
providers carried out the tasks of a project coordination unit, benefited from the project by developing its
organization and capacities to plan and monitor the rural development sector, and the Directorate of
Pastoral Organizations (DOP) gained experience in unified extension activities in the Sahelian zone.
However the monopolistic structure (ONDR) turned out to be not effective enough to sustain the delivery
of extension services on a national basis. Completely implementing a new extension management system
throughout country, modifying it in several respects to be more suitable for Chad (see Section 3.2), and
carrying out the process in a participatory manner were noteworthy achievements. Other important benefits
of the project to institutions can be seen in the villages and those agencies (ACRA, SAWA, and GTZ) that
directly helped implement PRAOP, initiated by the project. The committees of producer organizations and
Selection Committees, that is, stakeholder committees to review and choose investments, are now
-9-



permanent features in the five target districts, ensuring continuity of action both for village-level
development efforts and for broader planning, understanding, and coordination at the district level. Some
capacity building at the local level can also be recorded. Besides the continuous training provided by
agricultural extension agents, more than 24,000 producers have been trained to deal with the small common
investments and farm-level improvements. About 750 producer organizations have become familiar with
the procedures needed to borrow and repay funds, and an equal number have learned to deal with marketing
and supply agencies. The field staff of three NGOs benefited from training, learned to do their jobs more
professionally, and helped the process of disengagement of the state from direct involvement in
implementing rural development efforts. Financing of these activities can be considered a long-term
investment in institution building, human resources, and foundation of private sector development.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation, or attainment of potentially optimal benefits, was impeded by the following
negative factors:
(a)    The vagaries of weather that makes agriculture in Chad, and with it rural development, an
uncertain industry even with the best efforts. Of the seven project years, three had adequate rainfall for the
type of agriculture and livestock practiced in Chad, three years were slightly less than satisfactory, and one
year was a drought year, reversing much of the gains achieved in good years. (Perhaps this was a reason
why the main priority for the producer organizations seemed to be the building of storage houses and thus
ensure food security);
(b)    A lack of interest in producer organizations or an inability to provide financial services among the
few finance institutions in the country made it difficult to link the lending operations with them, although
some positive results were obtained during the latter part of the project; and
(c)    Inefficiencies in the cotton subsector, aggravated by falling cotton prices that had a dramatic effect
on cotton growers and the revenues of the cotton industry and the Government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project benefited from the Government's sector strategy and policies on rural development and
especially its policies of decentralization and the involvement of local communities and producer groups in
development efforts. Although the project was originally to be implemented by ONDR and DOP, at
restructuring the Government demonstrated its political commitment to promote private sector development
by allowing that the subcomponent PRAOP was implemented in the field essentially with the help of the
private sector (NGOs) and that Government funds (borrowed from IDA) could be used to finance their
operations. Also, the Government was ready to accept the recommendations made by IDA supervision
missions for corrective measures when things did not go right.
The factors that impeded implementation of the project or achievement of better results included the
following:
(a)    Except for one year (1999), the Government's financial contribution was inadequate to meet the
needs of the project, and during the last two years that contribution petered out entirely, thus making it very
difficult to carry out some activities that were intended to have been financed by counterpart funds. Also,
delays in releasing funds caused delays in fieldwork, and thus reduced the outcomes of the project and
increased the administrative costs in the subcomponent PRAOP due to nature of the contracts made with
NGOs. (It did not help project implementation during the last three years that in the early years the
- 10-



Government provided the project with three times the amount of counterpart funds that had been estimated
at appraisal, because of expenses related to the recruitment of AVBs from the private sector, office
expenditures higher than those that had been estimated at appraisal, and increased operational costs not
payable from IDA funds);
(b)    During the early years of the project, the Government's supervision of the research institutes was
inadequate.
5 3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
Project implementation was adversely affected by the following factors relating to project management, the
monitoring unit at ONDR, and the NGOs that participated in the program:
(a)    In general, ONDR implemented the project well, but Government supervisory bodies had
inadequate warning of the tasks or problems they should have attended to;
(b)    The Research and Agricultural Technology Directorate was slow to take the actions needed in the
research institutes to provide adequate support to the extension components;
(c)    During the first project years, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit had inadequate manpower,
systems, and capabilities to thoroughly check up on the failing research component; the unit was also slow
to process the data collected;
(d)    The costs of project management and monitoring appear to be high-- 18.5 percent of the project
costs. Their acknowledgment affected somewhat negatively the central and regional activities. However, if
the consultancies for special "piggybacked activities" are deducted from the administration costs, the
remaining amount, representing less than 14 percent of the project costs, is not exceptionally high for a
rural services project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the project costs were estimated at US$25.6 million. Of this amount, IDA credit was to be
US$24.5 million and the Government's contribution US$970,000, while the beneficiaries would pay
US$56,000. At completion, the exact contribution by the beneficiaries could not be estimated, but IDA
credit had been almost entirely disbursed; of the approved credit of SDR17.0 million, the Borrower
withdrew SDR16.98 million (99.9 percent). In dollar terms the disbursements amounted to US$22.9
million, instead of the originally estimated US$24.5 million, the difference being caused by changes in the
SDR exchange rate. The Government contributed FCFA 1.02 billion (about US$1.6 million), including
financing of ONDR expenses not related to the project (about 15 percent). The World Bank's
disbursement record indicates that the amounts withdrawn for the different components were within the
limits reserved for them (i.e., no category had been exceeded by more than 10 percent).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating
Overall the project sustainability is unlikely. There is a substantial variation between the different
components and it is unlikely that the progress made so far in institutional development and producer
organization can be maintained without further support to be provided through the follow-up ASPOP
operation. Setting aside the risks arising from unreliable rain patterns, which are obviously outside the
control of stakeholders, the basic premises for rural development are satisfactory: The producers have
clearly demonstrated an interest in improving their lot through their own efforts, and the Government is
systematically following the market-oriented policies put in place nearly a decade ago. These policies have
removed most of the disincentives to increasing agricultural production, and have emphasized greater
transparency, accountability, and private-sector involvement in development of the rural sector.
The sustainability of subprojects (micro-projects) at the community level appears satisfactory. During
- 1 1 -



preappraisal of a follow-on project, the financial viability of similar subprojects financed under this project
has been evaluated as satisfactory to good (see Annex 3); their continued success depends on the continued
maintenance and good financial administration of the facilities created. In training producer organizations,
participating NGOs have emphasized the importance of financial viability during the last two project years.
The sustainability of the extension and research components is much less certain. The extension and
research services are expected to continue getting some financing from the government, but in general,
arrangements for extension and adaptive research require privatization of some extension activities,
development of a more efficient and result-oriented financial management system for research, more
training and linkages with international research institutions, etc. to be fully operational. The extension and
research components would need extemal financing at least for two more years before the expected oil
revenues would provide new opportunities for rural development.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The extension management system and the adaptive research program have already been integrated with the
Government's system of supporting agricultural development. As for the producer organization component
and especially PRAOP, the manuals, procedures, practices, eligibility criteria, and monitoring systems,
including monitoring indicators (see Annex 1), which were developed during the project period, provide an
excellent basis for expanding the producer organizations' activities to new areas and population groups.
ONDR, two local NGOs, and GTZ are now very familiar with the program, especially the financial and
procedural requirements that it places on them in the field. At mid-term, the IDA missions proposed that the
Government of Chad consider deepening and expanding the PO program to cover the entire country. The
Government has taken gradual steps to ensure that the program is expanded and, indeed, improved.
Because a follow-on project was delayed, the Government has requested that the IDA-financed Project
Preparation Facility be allowed to be used for purposes that would maintain the best practices and
momentum in the various components attained under PSAP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in project identification and supporting project preparation is rated as marginally
satisfactory. The project took into consideration the Government's priorities, as well as the Bank's strategy
to support Chad's development efforts. The project design was based on experiences gained during a pilot
program that had been running for two years and had been evaluated by the Government and several donor
organizations. During the preparation phase, extensive workshops and consultations were held with all the
potential stakeholders. The Bank staff followed the pilot program and advised on canying it out.
The appraisal contained an adequate skill mix and Government participation. The appraisal team carried
out the appraisal in accordance with the policies of the Bank in the early 1990s, which included a policy
that required "simple" projects with a minimum number of components and great confidence in the
extension management system, its linking with agricultural research, and the provision of these services by
the public sector. As a new element, compared with some earlier similar projects, the team included a
producer organization component in the project, but only to support the formation and training of farmer
groups. Although the appraisal team identified some risks for the project (including a possible lack of
counterpart funds and qualified technical personnel, and weak personnel management), it failed to identify
those risk factors that a couple of years later threatened the achievement of the project's development
objectives. The Training & Visit System turned out to be relatively costly and difficult to maintain and not
as effective as anticipated because it took more time than expected to move towards a decentralized
- 12 -



delivery of services. The farmers and producer groups did not have the minimum funds necessary to
implement the technologies that the extension agents disseminated. Furthermore, the appraisal team did not
realize that agricultural research institutes, even when bolstered with project funds, could not develop, and
put into practice, new technologies fast enough to meet the development goals. A factor that made it
difficult to implement especially the livestock part of the project was the unanticipated contest between the
ministries involved in implementing the project (which problem was only resolved late during the project
period by establishing an inter-ministerial coordination committee under the Ministry of Planning). Also,
project implementation and evaluation would have benefited from more specific and impact-oriented
monitoring indicators in the appraisal report, but it should be noted that the Bank's guidelines for detailed
logical frameworks had not been issued at the time of the appraisal of this project.
After the mid-term review, some of these shortcomings were corrected.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of PSAP was satisfactory. The Bank carried out one or two supervision missions
(implementation support missions) per year; this number was adequate, in view of the fact that advice and
support were also available from an agricultural services specialist posted at the Bank's Country Office in
Chad.
The reports of the supervision missions reflected the missions' thorough work, and the aide-memoires
provided detailed advice to correct key shortcomings. The supervision reports were initially very
enthusiastic about the implementation of the project and its components, but they gradually turned more
critical, especially concerning the inactivity observed under the research component. The biannual review
report in 1997, and the supervision reports from 1996 to 1998, called for some adjustments in the project to
ensure its success. However, the main adjustments (see Section 2.4) were recommended in the supervision
(mid-term) reports of 1999, which resulted in a more substantial restructuring of the project a few months
later. All in all, the supervision mission should have noticed the risks for the project earlier than in
1998/1999.
The restructuring of the project and several amendments to the Credit Agreement proved that the Bank was
adequately flexible, responding to the Government's requests as needed. However, the Government
complained to the ICR mission that the responses from the Bank took too much time.
7 3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The project was carefully identified and prepared,
and it was appraised according to the approaches prevalent in the rural development field in the early
1990s. It met the policy objectives of both the Government and the Bank. During the supervision phase, the
Bank suggested or approved the modifications necessary, ensuring that as much as possible of the
development objectives of the project would be reached.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation:
The Government's performance in project preparation is rated as highly satisfactory. As the Government
had had no earlier experience with similar projects, it applied for and obtained financial assistance from
donor agencies and IDA for a pilot phase of the project, took an advance (Project Preparation Facility)
from IDA, and established a National Chadian Committee to evaluate the pilot operations and formulate
the project design (with FAO). The Government also strengthened it rural development agency, ONDR, to
take responsibility for organizing field trials and to work out the practical principles and procedures to be
applied for project implementation.
- 13-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory in view of the project outcome and
outputs, although there were some important shortcomings. After project approval by IDA, the Government
made the project effective in six months, despite the weak local capacity. It eventually complied with all the
project covenants, except, as mentioned earlier, for providing adequate counterpart funds during the last
three years of the project. The main problems during project implementation were delays in getting the
research component implemented as intended, and late releases of, or failure to provide, adequate
counterpart funds. As the expectation regarding the Government's contribution for the last three years was
relatively small (US$700,000), delays in its annual releases slowed down but did not stop project
implementation. The Government's timely action in requesting amendments in Credit Agreements when
needed, especially in regard to restructuring the project, helped achieve the project development objectives.
7.6 Implementing Agency.
ONDR carried out the project administration and monitoring functions satisfactorily. The overall
satisfactory performance rating in successfully implemented components must be credited in part to the
management of ONDR, as well as to the generally satisfactory accounting, audits, and other administration
activities, and maintenance of contacts with IDA and other development agencies. Originally, ONDR fell
short in monitoring project activities, but improved very well toward the end of the project; it had become
capable of preparing an exceptionally detailed project completion report (its summary is included in this
report as Section 9).
There were substantial differences in the extent to which various agencies implemented the project. ONDR
reorganized the extension functions and carried out the annual extension programs very well; after the first
two or three years, DOP supported ONDR well in the Sahelian zone after the disputes between the two
oversight ministries had been resolved. The activities planned for the producer organization component
were slow to get under way, but the targets were eventually exceeded. Similarly, the pilot subcomponent
PRAOP was very successfully managed by ONDR and carried out by the NGOs hired to do the fieldwork.
The Research and Agricultural Technology Directorate apparently did not adequately supervise the
research institutes, because these institutes were very late in reorienting their approaches toward adaptive
and participatory research that could have better supported the extension efforts. Substantial capacity
building took place among the stakeholders in all components, including the three NGOs that implemented
PRAOP.
The performance of NGOs in implementing PRAOP, on balance, has to be rated as satisfactory. All NGOs
did excellent work in the field under difficult conditions, not only in helping to initiate and complete
subprojects, but also in providing feedback on the lessons of the pilot operations that can be used in the
future. They also did substantially more training of village groups than was originally planned. However,
in two of the three NGOs, the costs were high in relation to outputs, especially in the beginning, and there
was too much concentration on a few infrastructures (storage houses and wells).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In view of the level of objectives reached and the substantial impact estimated (to be confirmed after a
couple of years, because the PO infrastructures have been used for only 3 to 16 months), the overall
performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The chief lessons that have emerged from the implementation of PSAP are as follows:
- 14 -



(a)    An effective extension management system, modified to the conditions in a particular country, is an
important element of delivering new agricultural technology to producers. There are costs involved in any
effective system, but if the benefits substantially exceed the costs-as seems to be the case in Chad on the
basis of the increased productivity-support to extension is well justified. Support by adaptive and
participative agricultural research is necessary, but initially the best practices of the existing and
traditionally known technology-when collected and tested on farmers' fields--may provide adequate
training material for several years and allow substantial improvement in productivity and incomes (see
Annex 9);
(b) Agricultural extension and research require adequate funds to function and provide the expected
benefits. A decline in cotton productivity in Chad may be the result of reduced funding and emphasis on
cotton extension. While at the start of the project, the cotton sector had adequate funds from several
sources outside this project, they soon disappeared with decline of cotton prices. The cotton sector was
not specifically included in PSAP, but the lesson drawn was that a rural development project, such as
PSAP, should make sure that specific measures are carried out in support of a sector as critical as the
cotton sector in Chad.
(c) Using NGOs and bilateral agencies as implementation agencies for special types of components-- such
as the subcomponent that provides investment funds to help producer organizations to benefit from the
extension messages--can provide relatively fast and impressive results. However, the use of NGOs is not
always less expensive than the use of Government agencies, although NGOs can yield faster results and
thus be more cost-effective. The administrative and operational costs absorbed by NGOs engaged in these
activities can sometimes be high (up to 50 percent of the funds made available for PO investments).
Deploying NGOs in new and sometimes sparsely populated areas understandably requires certain start-up
investments (including improvement of their own capacity and knowledge to carry out the functions that
they sign for), but measures must be developed to reduce these costs to a more reasonable level (say 30
percent), especially after the first six months when the field network has been established.
(d) Because it is more economical for NGOs to deal with relatively large subprojects of a few main types,
NGOs may have a tendency to recommend to producer organizations certain types of more expensive
infrastructure subprojects, rather than smaller, more diverse subprojects. (Under PRAOP, a concentration
on wells and storage houses could reflect this tendency, although wells and storage houses may also be to
some extent a high priority for the village populations). Appropriate guidelines and incentives should be
developed to ensure adequate diversification of subprojects both by the size and type. Also, although
producer organizations with fewer members are easier to deal with and probably more effective in making
decisions and implementing subprojects, it is important that as many people as possible benefit from the
limited funds, if not as direct owners, then at least as users of the subproject services.
(e) Overall, subprojects financed under the project (PRAOP), with a grant contnbution by the Government,
are profitable, but an attempt should be made to conduct financial feasibility studies on them, even though
it may be difficult to compute financial viability for some community-based subprojects. Requiring
projections and budgets from the producer organizations (and the Govemment and NGO staff assisting
them) would force the PO members and committees to put more emphasis on the requirements their
investments must meet to provide the expected benefits and allow the necessary maintenance and
replacement in the future, in addition to allowing the Selection Committees to prune out the least-profitable
activities.
(f) Using producer organizations as a basis for village investments gives benefits beyond those that are
strictly economic: the approach provides a forum to fight against HIV/AIDS, promotes the position of
- 15 -



women, and improves understanding by villagers of the importance of their environment and measures that
could be used to maintain or improve it.
(g) Starting a new type of a program as a pilot operation helps demonstrate the problems that will be
encountered and helps develop the principles, procedures, and initial implementation capacity for larger
interventions. However, because no pilot project will furnish all the necessary lessons, the design of the
follow-on projects must be flexible enough to allow for modifications to reaching the development goals
(as was the case in Chad, where PRAOP was introduced two or three years before the end of the project).
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
N.A.
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The data had been collected after each agricultural production campaign on each of the farmers reached by
the extension system; No data was collected on farmers that were not reached; It is therefore difficult to use
this data to compare the situation between farmers reached by the project and those not reached.
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
\<%<Ilmpict Objecti,es    - Jr~ ., ,. -ndicatii-r ' -        ; AcIualLates e5Iimate
,. :' .f- :1--            .             , - -   .--   .  .-'---echange).
Development Objectives
Improvement of the productivity
of the agricultural sector activities
and incomes of the families
working in the sector through-
(a) Establishment of T&V   Crop yield increases among the
extension management   producers adopting the extension
system, to be supported  messages (themes) promoted
by applied and
participative research,   - Irrigated rice (50 percent)      10 4 Sudanese zone)
and                       - Cotton (25 percent)              13 4 (Sudanese zone)
- Millet (20 percent)              25 4 (Sudanese zone)
36 0 (Sahelian zone)
- Sorghum (20 percent)             19 5 (Sudanese zone)
63 0 (Sahelian zone)
- Groundnut (25 percent)           35 6 (Sudanese zone)
- Maize (no target set)            12 9 (Sudanese zone)
Livestock indicators.
- Reduction of animal death        5 -10 (See Annex I b)
rate (10 percent)
- Increase in milk yield (35     200 0 during rainy season
percent)                        100 0 during dry season
Overall income increases (15     77 6 (Sudanese zone-agric.)
percent)                        47.0 (Sahelian zone--cattle)
104 0 (Sudanese zone-agric.) 1/
99.0 (Sahelian zone) I/
(b) Support to promotion,  Number of producer groups
establishment,         trained (4,500)                   4,758 (committee members)
formalization, and
management training of  Number of producer groups
producer organizations  organized to purchase inputs               1,674
(see also Annex I (c))
Number of producer groups                   751
linked with credit institutions     (for FCFA 57 million)
Number of PO unions established              I I
(I])
1/ Measured in Pilot Pastoral Perimeter projects (PPP)
Note NA = Not applicable
Source Project Monitoring Evaluation System
- 17-



Annex 1 (b):   Component Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix (as prepared at the
Mid-Term Review)
INDICATORS FOR AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK EXTENSION
Indicator                 Revised   Achievemen by yea                     % achievement
objectives  1999/2000  2000/2001    2001/2002   as of December
1998                 l31, 2001
No. of  ension agents          461                       414          3               79.6
(field-level)
No. of zonal supervisors        62          73            73          66             106.5
No. of technical specialists    72          68            69          63              87.5
No. of sector chiefs            32          33            34          34             106.3
No. of district chiefs          10          12            12          12             120.0
No. of regional ext.             6           3             3           3              50.0
coordinators
No. of PSAP regional             3           3             3           3             100.0
coordinators
No. of $x$ vehicles in the      86          86            92          97             112.8
project
No. of motorcycles in the      277                                   528             190.6
project
No. of mopeds                  238         251           251         528             105.5
Area coverage (no. of           14          11            11          11              78.6
prefectures)
No. of villages covered      4,610       3,979         3,969       3,350              72.7
No. of contact groups (CG)   11,064       8,955        8,777     746,665              55.5
No of families involved (in  280,000    177,273       92,271     120,303              28.3
CG)                                I
No. of demonstration plots    N.A.      28,462        15,783       18,160             N.A.
(agr.)
No. of demonstration          N.A.       11,952       10,861       9,594              N.A.
groups (livestock)
No. of MTRM                   N.A.           8            16           8              N.A.
No. of fortnightly training   N.A.          30            26          25              N.A.
sessions
3. Impact indicators
No. of families adopted agr.  N.A.      189,927      228,943     373,810              N.A.
messages
No. of families adopted       N.A.       55,611       70,151     152,838              N.A.
livest. messages                               I
Areas improved with           N.A.      187,870      213.089     323,650              N.A.
technology
No. of animals treated        N.A.        N.A.       504,151        N.A.              N.A.
- 18-



Production of sorghum          658        756         N.A.       786           19.5
(kg/ha)
Production of millet (kg/ha)   523        619         N.A.       656           25 4
Production of maize (kg/ha)    991        924         N.A.      1,119          12.2
Production of rainfed rice    1,410      1,483        N.A.      1,557          10.4
(kg/ha)
Production of groundnut        894        916         N.A.      1,212          35.6
(kg/ha)
Production of cotton (kg/ha)   673        867         N.A.       763           13.3
In the Sahelian zone:
Production of sorghum          424       N.A.         N A.       803           89.4
(kg/ha)
Production of millet (kg/ha)   295       N.A.         N .A.      626          111.2
Production of maize (kg/ha)    606       N.A.         N.A.       701           15.2
Production of groundnut        802       N.A.         N.A.       872            8.7
(kg/ha)
Reduction in mortality rates:
Sahelian zone
For cattle (%)                  10       N.A.         N.A.         5          175.0
For sheep (%/6)                 20       N.A.         N.A.         6          170.0
For goats (%)                   30       N.A.         N.A.         10         166.7
Revenue from operations
(FCFA)
In Soudanese zone:           227,301
Agriculture                 139,638   248,054         N.A.       N.A.          77.6
Livestock                   28,379     41,714         N.A.       N.A.          47.0
In Sahelian zone:            166,000       N.A.         N.A.    419,000         152 4
Agnculture                  42,497       N.A.         N.A.     86,727         104 0
Livestock                   77,740       N.A.         N.A.    154,504          98.7
This table was prepared by the M&E Unit of PSAP and achievement results could not be verified by the
ICR mission.
- 19-



Agricultural Research lIndicators
Result indicators            Revised            Achievements by year         % achievement
objectives                                       as of 95/96-
1998        1999/2000    2000/2001   2001/2002  01/02
1. Arrangements for extension
Liaison officers                   I            I            I          I           100.0
Multidisciplinary teams           4             3            3          3            75.0
integrated with the national
research system
No. of researchers                 7            7            6          5            71.4
No. of research technicians       10            8            7          7            70.0
No. of 4x4 vehicles                5            4            4          6           120.0
No. of motorcycles                10            2            4          6            60.0
No. of computers                   9            3            3          3            33.3
No. of photocopiers                3            3            3          3           100.0
2. Activity indicators                                                       _
No. of training events                          3            3
(ateliers) camed out
No. of extension messages          8                         6          4           125.0
(themes) tried out or tested
No. of days used for               3            1            1           1          100.0
programming
No. of trials/tests on farmers'  720          500           28          8            74.4
fields
No. of trials/tests at stations                              1          2
No. of MTRMs organized by        72                         16          5            29.2
researchers
New programs endorsed by           6                         3          2            83.3
researchers
No. of international               5            5                                   100.0
conferences attended
3. Output and impact indicators
No. of extension messages          9                         5                       55.6
(themes) passed on to
extension
-20 -



INDICATORS FOR THE PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS CONPONENT
1. Arrangemensfr 'Os
No. of OP Specialists (SAGs)       32         38             38          38           118.8
No. of Regional Supervisors         3333100.0
No. of motorcycles                 32         38             38          38           118.8
No of 4x4 vehicles                  3           4             4           4           133.3
2. Activity indicators
No. of POs assisted monthly     1,800       1,010         1,621       1,059           58.8
3. Result and Impact indicators
No. of officially registered    1,200        820          2,306       3,439          286.6
POs
No. of PO committee             1,680        692          3,135       4,758          283.2
members trained in
organization and management                                     .
No. of members trained in       1,681       6,476        18,012      19,366         1,152.1
different thematic topics             I
No of female members             N.A.       N A.           N.A.         559
trained in different thematic
topics
No. of POs given linking          700        529            959       1,143           163.3
services
Amount of credits received              1,331,194     2,760,400  57,046,750
with SAG assistance (FCFA
million)
No. of Livestock assistants     1,920         150           406         494           25.7
trained
No of environm. assistants       N.A.         100           190         256
trained
Tons of cattle cake obtained   21,540       3,206         8,212       5,740           27.3
with PO assistance
-21 -



Indicator           C'uAilatFve/finali target  A\tuaa1ty couplieted    GTL.asslsted subprojects
-  -   .   - -f 1/  -            .processed, but waiting for
financing 21
Annual Contracts with NGOs             3                        3
Number of Service and                  5                        3
Management Centers
Subprojects:
-   Storage (units)                91                       40                        69
-   Wells/cattle                   52                       35                         4
wells/small dams
-   Small bridges and              8                        5                          2
"radiers"
-   Vaccination corridors          12                       2                          2
-   Irrigation units/dams          5                         1                         1
-   Cattle grazing
grounds (PPP)                   I                        I
-   Training programs              45                       1 1                       10
-   Culverts, cattle yards,                                 3                         10
and other
Total subprojects                     222                      100                        99
1/ Targets set at restructuring of the project in 1999/2000.
2/ This information was not collected from ACRA and SAWA, but the number of their subprojects ready
for processing or financing is estimated to be about the same as that of GTZ.
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
, , , * - ' . , !    ' -  > - ,  . - ' - "; 7:! \4'\' -.  ;'  ' App-raisal - ' -Actual/Latest '.- Percentage of
l  '-" --' -; --  - 7'      ;    ;;      ,a_, , ~Estiilte.-   Estirate   -    Appraisal.
-  *---:~ ;';:-  Component.                 . 'US$ million.-  US$ .million ! :    *t .  .
Adaptive and Participative Research                     3.70            2.60            70.3
Extension                                              19.40           15.40            79.4
Producer Organizations                                  1.50            5.30           353.3
Project preparation (Pilot Project)                     1.00            0.80             80
Total Baseline Cost                                    25.60           24.10
Total Project Costs               25.60          24.10
Total Financing Required               25.60           24.10
Notes:
- The components contain the funds used for administration, monitoring, "piggyback" activities introduced
later in the project cycle.
- The total credit amount withdrawn was US$22.9 million instead of $US24.5 million; the difference was
due to changes in the exchange rates. The estimates in the column include the Govemment contribution of
US$1.6 million and assume that the contribution by beneficiaries was as estimated at appraisal, that is
US$56,000 plus the amounts that the POs contributed (20 percent of the investments, equaling to about
US$200,000.
- The component "Producer Organizations" includes US$2.0 million put aside for PRAOP at the time of
restructuring of the project.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category             Procurement   Method
ICB         NCB          Other       N.I.F. I/  Total Cost
1.     Civil Works
Construction/                      0.65                                   2.3
rehabilitation                    (0.65)                                  (1.8)
2.     Goods
Vehicles              4.22                                                4.22
(4.22)                                             (4.22
Motorcycles           2.14         0.10                                   2 24
(2.14)       0.10                                  (2.24)
Equipment                          0.25         0 07                      0.32
(0.25)       (0.07)                    (0 32)
3. Consultant Services                              1.58         0.40         1.98
(1.58)                    (I 58)
4.     Miscellaneous
Training                                         0.82                     0.82
(0.82)                    (0.82
Incremental op.costs            3.70            10.50        0.51         14.21
(3.20)         (10.50)                    (13.70)
Refunding of PPF                                 1.0                       1.0
- 23 -



(1.0)                       (10)
0.919
TOTAL                        6.36          4.20         13.97          1.6          25.60
(6.36)        (4.20)       (13.97)                     (24.53)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by an IDA credit. All costs include contingencies.
1/ Non-IDA financing (Government and producer organizations).
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent) 1/
Expenditure Category                   Procurement     Method
ICB            NCB               Other 1/             Total Cost
1. Civil Works
Construction/                             0.69                                    0.69
renovation
2. Goods
/Vehicles                 1.59                               0.19                  1.78
Motorcycles               0.86                               0.31                  1.17
Equipment                 0.08                               1.08                  1.16
3. Consultant Services                                           2.72
Miscellaneous
Training                                                      1.16                 1 16
Operating costs and                                          13.18                 13.18
monitonng
Refunding of PPF                                             0.78                  0.78
TOTAL                         2.43            0.69               18.64                22.65
Note: All costs include contingencies. The figures do not fully reconcile with the SAR table because of the
exchange rate differences during the project period.
1/ ONDR has not kept record on non-IDA financed procurement.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appr Estim   | ActJ   Latest  Estim      % of
_ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   2/  App .       _ _
IDA     Govt    Ben's   IDA     Govt   Ben's   IDA      Govt     Ben's
' .s-'t A  -.   . -       If           ._'         _' _. __
Agncultural        3.5    )               )       )               )       )
research                  )               )       )               )       )
Extension          18.7   )1.0    -       )19.9   )1.6           )85.1    )160.0
Producer           1.3    )       0.1     )       )      0.1      )       )        100.0
organizations                                    I_I
-24-



--Subcomponent
PRAOP                                  2.0           0.2      N/A             N/A
Project Preparation
(pilot phase)     1.0                    1.0
Total             24.6    1.0    0.1     22.9   1.6    0.3     93.0     160.0   300.0
1/ SAR did not contain a division of the Government contnbution by component.
2/ ONDR has not kept financing records by component.
3/ The difference from 100 percent was caused by vanations in the exchange rate: IDA funds were fully disbursed.
-25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefilts
Economic rate of return:
Because the project addressed problems that did not lend themselves to economic analysis (weak
agricultural productivity and the need for capacity-building and institutional improvements through better
agricultural services and stronger producer organizations), no economic analysis of the project or
components were carried out either at appraisal or at completion.
The cost-effectiveness of the project is rated as satisfactory. Using the average outreach figures for the last
three project years and the average annual costs of the extension and research components (including
project administration and monitoring), the cost per each family reached is only about US$17 per annum
(total costs of the extension and research components, US$17.6 million, divided by 7 years, divided by
average annual number of families, 140,700). For the Producer Organization component the cost per POs
formalized was US$244 per unit. This figure also includes training of committee members and ordinary
members and linking POs with economic agencies. If estimating that about one third of the cost was used
for training, the average training cost would have been US$22 per person. The costs of PO subprojects
were about US$10,000 on average, varying from a few hundred dollars to US$27,000 (which was the
maximum allowed under the rules), and the cost of the administration by NGOs about the same. The high
cost of administration included, however, the initial cost of establishing the necessary advisory,
administrative, and training network, and would have declined, if the subcomponent would have continued
longer.
Financial Rate of Return:
No overall financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal or for the ICR. However, numerous typical
investments for subprojects were projected at preappraisal of the follow-on project, which concentrates
primarily on investments to be made by producer organizations. These subprojects, some of which relate to
infrastructures but most of which cover land development and improved production, can be used as proxies
to indicate the financial benefits derived from subproject investments under PRAOP. These current
calculations and the improvements in crop yields mentioned in Annex 1 indicate that project investments
under the PRAOP subcomponent provide strongly positive FRR or NPV.
Financial benefits for productive investments or those that support them directly are shown in Table I (if a
net profit is received already during the first year, NPV replaces the otherwise presented FRR). The farm
models in the following table are based on conservative estimates of attainable changes in family
households, taking into account the subsistence nature and risk minimizing strategy, typical for the targeted
groups of the population. Such changes include progressive productivity increases and changes in
prevailing cropping patterns. Family labor availability and requirement for the new activities were also
considered in the farm budget models. The analysis is carried out on a per unit basis for farm enterprises
(one hectare). (Details of the calculations are in the Project Implementation Manual of the proposed
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project.)
- 26 -



Table 1. Financial calculations for the main productive investments under the Agricultural Services and
Producer Organizations Project (amounts in FCFA)
Model        Area   Investment    Production               Value of                  FRR (%) or
(ha)/                Cost                     Production                NPV
Unit
Without      With project  Without   With project
project                  project
Irrigated      10       8,400,000    1,655,000   3,645,000   2,500,000     6,250,000       14.7
rice
Fruit             1.      930,000           0      125,500          0       257,000        13.0
production
Goat              1.      295,000      455,625     382,250     360,000      400,000        77.0
production
Poultry          I.       212,000      265,100     375,663     302,000      812,000      NPV=
production                                                                             3,122,495
Vegetable        1.       968,000      438,250     624,950     830,000     1,645,000       75.0
production
Groundnut        I.            0       103,600     136,500     175,000      250,000       >100
Maize prod.      L.            0       113,600     154,400     150,000      250,000        71.0
Niebe             I.           0        94,200     145,900     100,000      200,000       >100
Sorghum (Wh      1.            0       67,700       94,700      75,000      127,500      NPV=
Sahel)                                                                                  180,610
Sorghum (Red     1.            0        77,600     100,850     120,000      180,000      NPV=
Sudan)                                                                                  254,906
Fishponds         I.(     325,000           0      145,000          0       300,000        41.0
Cassava           1.(     570,000    2,526,000   2,486,000    1,440,000     2,880,00  NPV=7,619,
processing                                                                                  091
Fish smoking      1            0     1,830,000    1,781,300   1,012,500    1,350,000     NPV=
______________   _____________   _____________  3,332,668
Onion             1.(      8,000       415,000     566,000    1.050,000    2,250,000  NPV=6,944,
production                                                                                  428
Cattle         1.0      7,075,000           0      425,000          0      5,360,000      >100
waterholes
-27-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty       Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count         Specialty                  Progress    Objective
Identification/Preparation
1991-1993                2   AG. SCES SPECIALIST (1);
ECONOMIST (1)
05/1994 Pre-             3   AG. SCES SPECIALIST (1);
appraisal                    ECONOMIST (1);
AGRICULTURIST (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1994                  6   AG. SCES SPECIALIST
(2);ECONOMIST (1);
AGRICULTURIST (1);
TRAINING SP. (1);
FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
Supervision
08/1995                   3  ECONOMIST (1);                HS           HS
AGRICULTURIST (1);
DIVISION CHIEF (1)
04/19/1996               2   AG. SCES SPECIALIST (1);      HS           HS
ECONOMIST (1)
12/20/1996               2   AG. SCES. SPECIALIST (1);      S           S
ECONOMIST (1)
08/10/1997                3  AG. SVCES. SPECIALIST (1);     S           S
RURAL DEVT. SPECIALIST
(1); NGO SPECIALISTS (1)
12/13/1997               3   AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);        S           S
RURAL DEV. SPEC. (1);
AGRICULTURAL
ECONOMIST (I)
03/21/1998                5  AG. SERVICES SPECIALIS (1);    S           U
RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (I);
PROGRAM OFFICER (1); FIN.
& ACCOUNT EXPERT (1);
PASTORALIST (1)
06/21/1998                4  RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);     S           S
AG. SERVICES SPECIALIS (1);
ADAPTATIVE RES. SPECIA
(I); INST. DEV. SPECIALIST
(1)
11/27/1998               3   RURAL DEVELOPMENT SPEC         S           S
(1); AG. SCES SPECIALIST (1);
LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (I)
03/1999                   4  RURAL DEVELOPMENT SPEC         U           U
(1); AG. SCES SPECIALIST (1);
PROGRAM OFFICER (1);
AGRICULTURIST (1)
- 28-



07/30/1999                  4   AG.EXTN.SPECIALIST (2);
RURAL EV.SPECIALIST (I);
AGROPASTORALIST (1)
05/09/2000                  3   AGRIC. EXTENSION SPEC.            S             S
(1); AGRIC. SERVICES SPEC.
(I); PROJECTS OFFICER (1)
09/13/2000                  3   SR. AG. EXT. SPEC. (1);           S             S
PROJECT OFFICER (1); AG.
SERVICES SPEC. (1)
03/11/2001                  4   TTL (1); AGRIC. SERVICES          S             S
SPEC. (I); PROGRAM
OFFICER (1); CONSULTANT
(I)
10/25/2001                  4   TTL (1); PROJECTS OFFICER         S            S
(1); AGRICULTURAL SPEC.
(1); RURAL INSTIT. SPEC. (I)
ICR
10/21/2002                 2    TTL (I); RURAL DEV.               S            S
SPECIALIST (1).
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              247                        550
Appraisal/Negotiation                    63                         193
Supervision                             239                        671
ICR                                       3                          9
Total                                   552                       1,423
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM       O N  O NA
OI Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM       O N O NA
Li Physical                           OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
Oi Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
Li Institutional Development          O H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
O Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N        O NA
L Gender                        O H OSUOM O N        O NA
L Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM O N O NA
Li Private sector development         0 H O SU O M    0 N 0 NA
Li Public sector management           0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
L Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N O NA
NGO Capacity Building
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6 1 Bank performance                                Rating
D Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS       OU    OHU
OI Overall                                           OHS *@S      O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS        O u   O HU
OI Government implementation performance            O HS OS       O  U  0 HU
GI Implementation agencyperformance                 O HS OS       O  U  0 HU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS O u O HU
- 31-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Appraisal Report of the Chad Agricultural and Livestock Services Project, World Bank, 1995.
Baseline Study for Monitoring and Evaluation, PSAP, 1996.
Report on the Mid-Term Review of the Chad Agricultural and Livestock Services Project, World Bank,
1997.
Survey on extension activities, PSAP, 1997.
Study on mid-term impact of PSAP on rural families and producers organizations, PSAP, 1998.
Evaluation of PSAP by beneficiaries (by consultant M. Bakuzakundi), 1998.
Impact study of extension activities, PSAP (by consultant Moby Ba), 2000.
Implementation Project Report, Ministry of Agriculture, 2002.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
1. General
The Government of the Republic of Chad signed in 1995 a Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with
IDA for a sum of SDR17.0 million to finance an Agricultural and Pastoral Services Project ("Projet des
Services Agricoles et Pastoraux"--PSAP). The 6-year project was planned to be the first phase of
longer-term financing of agricultural services.
The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the productivity of agriculture and livestock; (b) increase
the incomes for farmers; and (c) improve the effectiveness of agriculture and livestock-related research and
extension activities.
The project aimed specifically to (a) reorganize the agricultural extension system and make this service
demand-driven and responsive to farmers and livestock herders' real needs; (b) put in place agricultural
research arrangements that are directed to the needs of producers and link with agricultural extension; and
(c) strengthen producer organizations (POs) by providing them with technical and managerial training.
2. Technical and financial implementation of the project
Starting on October 16, 1995, PSAP has implemented the following tasks under its three components:
(a)    Agricultural and zoo-technical extension: This component has developed appropriate technologies
for the benefit of producers. For instance, during the 1999/2000 season, the component engaged 8,955
contact groups (of them 551 were women's contact groups) that consisted of 177,273 voluntary producers,
who participated in extension activities in 3,979 villages;
(b)    The adaptive and participative research: The component has tested and made available 10
agricultural technologies (also called messages or themes) in topics identified by the extension staff as
problems. Five of the technologies have been further validated by testing them on farmers' fields and
passed on to the extension agents for disseminating to farmers. Starting in 1999 the agricultural research
has been reorganized to be more effective and responsive to extension needs;
(c)    The producer organizations: The component carried out a census of producer organizations in the
territory of Chad and found 38,673 of them. Out of these POs, 13,088 have been formally identified and
3,960 monitored regularly. This component has also supported natural resource management in a holistic
manner, especially through involvement in the project of so-called pastoral perimeter pilots (PPP).
Furthermore, the component has included, in its scope pilot investment operations with POs under a
subcomponent PRAOP, financing of 101 subprojects identified by PO members.
(d)    In addition, the annual budgets of the project have been used to fund other activities, such as a
study on reforms recommended for the cotton sector; a study and development of a strategy for
restructuring of the agricultural extension system; and a plan for a program and its procedures for means
to improve agriculture in petrol producing areas through a "Fonds d'action d'initiatives locales.>>
Financing of the project has been possible thanks to the IDA credit mentioned above, and by carrying out
three reallocations of project funds. The Special Account was increased from its original FCFA 125 million
to FCFA 450 million, and disbursements from the project funds at IDA reached 99.5 percent by October
15, 2002. However, commitments for the activities not directly related to the project (see point (d) above)
and not foreseen when preparing project budgets have had a disturbing effect on implementation of the
actual project components. Also, the Government has not been able to honor its commitments to provide
counterpart funds as planned, and was, as at the end of the project, in arrears to the extent of FCFA 618
million (38 percent of the amount projected as the Government's contribution). Nevertheless, the project
has provided important benefits to a large number of families doing farming and livestock rearing.
3. Outputs and impacts of the project by component
- 33 -



As a result of farmers adopting the advice and technologies recommended by AVBs (les agents de
vulgarisation de base), project authorities have observed encouraging impacts at the beneficiary level,
namely: (a) increases in the yields of the main crops (sorghum, millet, maize, ground nuts, rice, and cotton);
(b) a decline in animal mortality; and (c) improvements in family incomes. The results achieved in each
component are summarized below. They allow verification of the level of reaching the project objectives.
3.1. Agricultural and zootechnical extension
The extension system has diffused numerous valuable agricultural technologies (themes) (see Annex 9).
The adoption rate has been relatively high at 40 percent.
The most important of these technologies are: use of organic material to fertilize the crops; weeding at the
correct times; seeding in line and at most productive distances; thinning of extra plants; and exact use of the
recommended doses of manure and fertilizer for cotton and cereals. The yields obtained in 2001 showed
substantial improvements in comparison to the reference year (the start of the project). In the Sudanian
zone, the yield of groundnuts increased by 35.6 percent, the yield of millet by 25.4, and the yield of
sorghum by 19.5 percent. In the Sahelian zone, the yields of groundnuts and millet increased by 89.4 and
111.2 percent, respectively. The weakest increases were recorded for cotton (13.4 percent), rice (10.4
percent), and maize (12.9 percent).
In animal production, application of the extension technologies extended provided proved similarly positive
for the animal herds. The main technologies disseminated and adopted by cattle growers were both intemal
and extemal parasite extermination for animals; treatment of trypanocide; complementary feeding of
animals and use of agricultural side-products (harvest residue); and vaccination against two animal chars
(bactereological and symptomic). Mortality rate in animals (cattle, cheep, and goats) has declined from 20
percent to 5 percent following improvements in animal rearing.
3.2. Adaptive and participative research
Implementation of this component has experienced substantial delays and the number of technologies
developed, tested, and delivered to the extension service has been limited. Nevertheless, already during the
second project year the operational arrangements of the research activity have been reorganized and the
priority programs determined. The research service is now better able to respond to concems of producers
and the extension service. Already in the past, the training that research institutes have given to AVB and
subject matter specialists has been appreciated.
3.3. Support to producer organizations
The results recorded under this component exceed the objectives initially set: 6,565 producer organizations
(POs) have been "officially authorized;" 19,366 producers have been trained (of them 559 were women);
and 4,758 PO committee members have been given instruction in organization and management. In
addition, the project staff has helped link 1,674 POs with other partners (NGOs, credit institutions, and
other economic agencies). This linking has resulted in signing 751 credit agreements for purchasing
farming and livestock inputs for a total amount of FCFA 1,1 billion and other types of credits for FCFA 57
million in 2001/2002. During the last three years, establishment of national and regional "facilitation"
committees has made it possible to purchase against PO down-payments 307,704 bags of cotton cake for
cattle, valued at FCFA 349 million.
Establishment of a subcomponent for financing PO infrastructures (PRAOP) as a pilot in five areas (three
in the Sudanese zone and two in Sahelian zone) has provided very encouraging results. More than 200 PO
subprojets have been formulated and 100 of them have been approved and implemented successfully. In
addition, five Service and Management Centers (CSG) have been formed, and they are successfully
managed by producer organizations.
- 34 -



These results would have been better, had there not been delays in starting this pilot operation
(implemented between October 2000 and September 2002). Besides the subprojects implemented, the
PRAOP coordination group has helped prepare plenty of new subprojects, which are now waiting for
financing (for instance, there are 100 new subprojects waiting for finance in the Sudanese zone alone).
Benefits that the producers have obtained from these subprojects are many. Construction of "radiers"
("Irish bridges," that is, bridge-like foundations of concrete on the river bottom) has permitted 60 villages
in the LUre and Lagon districts to have connection to markets also during the rainy seasons. Building of
storage houses and wells has allowed stocking of harvested crops, keeping foodstuff secure, promoting
development of small-scale trading, diversifying means of income earning, and giving a chance for
transhumants to start settling down permanently. Installation of water points in cattle grazing zones has
helped start using natural resources in a rational manner, reduce the radius of cattle moving, and reinforce
the dynamics of settling of transhumant cattle people.
Implementation of the subcomponent <( Perimetres Pastoraux Pilotes -PPP,>> which has an objective to
promote a holistic approach for management of natural resources (in Chad, pasture areas) in pilot areas,
has provided promising results, such as: (a) elaborating appropriate land use rules and facilitating peaceful
settling of conflicts concerning pastures and water points; (b) lengthening of grazing periods ; and (c)
freeing time from moving cattle around, often to distant places, for other activities. Moreover, the
improvements of grazing grounds and primary health care for animals have helped increase the productivity
of animals. Daily production of milk has increased from I to 3 liters per cow during the rainy season and
from 0.5 liters to I liter during the dry season. Also the fertility of animals has improved, in particular
concerning the age of the first calving, which has been reduced from 4 to 3 years. More globally, the pilot
projects have lifted the pasture quality and diversified the fodder species, also facilitating reappearance of
10 to 20 species that disappeared long ago. In addition, wildlife such as gazelles, bustards, and jackals have
gradually re-established themselves in these areas.
As to the increase of producer incomes with the help of the project, an evaluation study carried out in 2001
revealed that family incomes had increased since 1995, the baseline year. For instance in the Sahelian zone,
the average incomes for the adapting families have grown from FCFA 166,000 to FCFA 419,000. For the
families, which adopted both recommended agricultural and livestock practices, revenues were even higher
at FCFA 574 798. If the families adopted only the livestock recommendations, revenues were FCFA
553,125, and with the adoption of agncultural recommendations only, revenues were FCFA 341,827.
4. Problems encountered during proiect implementation
Several different kinds of problems negatively affected implementation of the project. The problems were
both climatic, technical, administrative, institutional, and financial, and included the following:
(a)    Climatic constraints: There are not many measures that could have been used to reduce the harmful
effects of the climatic risks that limited the results of the efforts done to improve the agricultural yields and
animal outputs;
(b)    Lack of "accompanying measures:" Farmers did not have financial means to implement some of
the extension recommendations in the early phases of the project;
(c)    The bicephalous, "double-headed" supervision of the project: In the beginning there were
misunderstandings and open conflicts between the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock at the central
level, causing dysfunction in the operational arrangements of the project, notably in the Sahelian zone
during the first three project years;
(d)    Slow administration: At the beginning of the project, procurement of means of transport, office
requirements, and communication materials was delayed, greatly harming the performance of the project
during the first two years of project life;
(e)    Frequent change of Task Managers in the Bank: There were three TMs during the period 1995 to
- 35 -



1998, often causing changes in the approaches to be used for implementing the project. However, of the
recommended approaches, PRAOP has been well received by the beneficiaries;
(f)    Slow processing of Statements of Expenditure: There was often delay in replenishing the Special
Account as a result of tardiness in processing SOEs;
(g)    Inadequate personnel in the field: The number of AVB (at the rate of I AVB for about 1,500-2,000
families) was not sufficient to cover the farming population;
(h)    Personnel management difficulties: The personnel in the Sahelian zone depended administratively
on other directorate (DOP) than the project;
(i)    Disbursement problems: A delay in the transfer of the first allocation of funds to the Special
Account prohibited starting field activities in a timely manner, so that producers would have benefited from
them as planned. During the first two project years, the project's treasury was very tight due to low level of
funds in the Special Account;
(.)    Irregularity of the Government's counterpart funding: The Government did not provide counterpart
funds as agreed upon, and at the end of the project, the Government was FCFA 618 million in arrears; and
(k)    Diversion of project funds for other activities: A substantial part of operational funds reserved for
the project were allocated to other activities that were not envisaged at the appraisal (FACIL, CTRT, etc.).
This diversion of project funds negatively affected the operational budgets of the ordinary project
components.
5. Corrective measures taken
To counteract the problems encountered, the project took the following measures:
(a)    Introduction of new varieties of rice and millet, adapted to the agro-climatic conditions of Chad;
(b)    Design and implementation of a program of "accompanying measures" for agricultural extension
("Progranune pilote de renforcement de l'appui aux organisations de producteurs--PRAOP);
(c)    Limiting the harmful effects of bicephalous management through the intervention by the Ministry
of Planning, which arranged that the chairmanship of the oversight committee CONAPSAP was assumed
by the Director General of that Ministry;
(d)    ONDR providing the project with vehicles, office material, and communication equipment when
waiting for the project to get procurement of these items organized. Then, organizing adequate training to
the procurement staff in their profession;
(e)    Recruitment of 158 additional AVBs from the market, to complement the inadequate number of
qualified or trainable AVBs who had been selected from the old extension service;
(f)    Decentralization of the administrative and financial management by establishing regional
coordination offices for the project in order to avoid conflicts at the central level;
(g)    Prefinancing of personnel training from ONDR's own funds; and
(h)    Revision of per diems for traveling and training costs downward to partially compensate the
reallocation of funds for activities other than those of the original project.
6. Lessons leamed from the experiences of the project
o   The double oversight of the project by two different ministries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock, created a bicephalous situation that was very harmful for the operations of the
project. Any future projects should have an institutional arrangement that takes into account this
aspect.
o   The Govemment's failure to release counterpart funds for project financing (during the last project
years) was very detrimental to the implementation of the project activities. It is therefore recommended
that the Govemment develop more suitable mechanisms to ensure that its contribution will be available
- 36 -



for future projects on agreed-upon times.
*   Extension activities, because of their nature (agents having to go to villages), imply elevated costs, but
the benefits are greatly higher than these costs.
*   If infrastructure investments that support production, financed partially as grants, prove to be
indispensable for gaining benefits and facilitating the adoption of extension recomrnendations, the
Government and donors should promote establishment of a credit system that would allow producers to
finance the necessary investments.
*   Making producers take responsibility for formulation, financing, and implementation of development
programs contribute not only to acceleration of the implementation speed but also improve the outputs
and impacts and assure the sustainability of agreed-upon investments.
*   It is important to make sure that the size of the Special Account is appropriate in relation to activities
planned and that it is replenished regularly, thus allowing financing of support organizations (such as
NGOs) without undue delays.
*   The pilot operation PRAOP has registered promising results. Considering the fragility of these
achievements, it is strongly recommended that suitable arrangements be made to allow maintaining the
momentum among the producers in the concemed regions, while waiting for the start of a new
program.
*   It is desirable to harmonize the beneficiary contributions that different agencies demand in rural areas
in order to avoid any distortions in the implementation of the national strategy for rural development.
The rate of beneficiary contributions should be modulated according to the nature of the investments in
question.
*   The costs of NGO support in project implementation and supervision have proved to be high during the
two years of the PRAOP pilot operation. Although such high costs can be regarded as normal at the
start of a program, it must be expected that a better ratio between the NGO costs and those used for
producer investments will be achieved in the future.
In conclusion, multiple constraints have been noted in the course of implementing PSAP. However, the
outputs achieved in agricultural extension and support to producer organizations are encouraging. Positive
changes have taken place not only in working methods in general, attitudes of the technical personnel, and
behavior of producers, but also and in particular in the productivity of agriculture, in animal rearing, and in
producer incomes. While the efforts carried out have been important, a period of six years is still too short
to cause great changes in the rural milieu. PSAP has been valuable both for the rural population and the
agricultural extension system, but much still needs to be done to meaningfully improve the conditions of life
for rural people in Chad.
7. Cooperating Financing Agencies
There were no cofinancing partners in this project. However, at the end of the project, when it turned out
that there was no immediate follow-up project to finance the small investrnents needed by producer
organizations, one of the three agencies implementing the fieldwork under PRAOP (i.e., ACRA) decided to
maintain its field organization for another six months at its own expense (with Italian assistance), while
waiting for additional funding and continuation of PRAOP-type operations.
8. Other Partners (NGOs/Private Sector)
As mentioned, the field activities of PRAOP were carried out by two NGOs (ACRA and SAWA) and one
bilateral agency (GTZ). They first established the network of field offices and organizational setup,
including forming Selection Committees to make decisions on investments, and trained both their own staff
and that of ONDR to promote the PRAOP activities among POs and then help them prepare the necessary
- 37 -



documents. Finally, they assisted in and supervised the implementation of subprojects.
The agencies implementing PRAOP learned more about the complexities of their task as they went along,
but, in general, they followed the PRAOP manual to the letter. In the discussions of the ICR mission with
these agencies, they made the following suggestions to improve the follow-on project:
o   The eligibility criteria for POs to get support for their subprojects should be more flexible than those
under the pilot program. (ASPOP indeed will have more flexibility, with additional types of subprojects
eligible for financing).
o   The rules in the manual should vary in different development areas in order to reflect varying distances
and poverty levels. It was claimed that similar programs run by the Government and some NGOs and
bilateral agencies were more lenient.
o   The funds for implementing NGOs and bilateral agencies should be provided in a more timely fashion
and preferably as a bigger "envelope." During PRAOP, funds were not always available when bills
arrived or salary payments had to be made. (One reason appeared to be that the size of the Special
Account had not been sufficiently adjusted to meet the needs of the restructured project.)
o   Adequate funds should be reserved to finance subprojects-or the number of subprojects to be financed
should be limited in advance--to avoid the formulation of subprojects for which no funds will be
available, thus frustrating all stakeholders.
o   Sometimes if was difficult for the producer organizations to collect the 10 percent of the investment
value that was required in cash, especially in some women's subprojects and in the poorest areas (for
the 10 percent contribution in kind there appeared to be no difficulties). A reduction in the rate for cash
contributions may already be justifiable on economic grounds: the more remote and drier areas are less
financially viable than are the more fertile areas near the market centers. However, it is important to
coordinate the rules of different development agencies in this respect, because with such limited funds
as are now available in Chad, competition between agencies does not seem reasonable. Also, it is
important to start savings schemes early to collect enough for the contribution needed in the
micro-projects and to learn the techniques needed for regular individual savings.
- 38-



