Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13618-CD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
FEBRUARY 17, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc
US$1.0 = 560 CFA franc
(as of July 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP           Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1775-CD)
ATETIP        Chad Agency for Public Works (Agence tchadienne des travaux d'interet public)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF          CFA franc
CFPA          Adult Professional Training Center (Centre de formation professionnelle des adultes)
CG            Contact Group
CIRAD-CA      Cotton and Textiles Research Institute (Institut de recherche sur le coton et les textiles)
CONAPSAP    National committee to oversee the implementation of the Agricultural and Livestock
Services Project (Comite national du Programme des Services Agricoles et Pastoraux)
DAS           Doyaba Agricultural School
DEFRVZ         Veterinary Training and Research Directorate (Direction de l'enseignement de la formation
et de la recherche veterinaire et zootechnique)
DOP           Pastoral Organization Directorate (Direction de l'Organisation Pastorale)
DPVC          Crop Protection Directorate (Direction de la Protection des Vegetaux et du
Conditionnement)
DRHFRP        Human Resources and Rural Training Directorate (Direction des ressources humaines, de
la formation rurale et des programmes)
DRTA          Research and Agricultural Technology Directorate (Direction de la recherche et de la
technologie agricole)
ENATE         National School for Livestock Technicians (Ecole Nationale des Agents Techniques de l'Elevage)
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
FRC           Financial Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1945-CD)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IITA          International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
LRVZ           Veterinary Research Laboratory (Laboratoire de recherche veterinaire et zootechnique)
MAE           Ministry of Agriculture and Environment (Ministere de l'agriculture et de l'environnement)
MEH           Ministry of Livestock and Hydraulics (Ministere de l'levage et de I'hydraulique pastorale)
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
ONDR          National Rural Development Office (Office national de developpement rural)
PNE           National Livestock Project (Credit 1912-CD)
PPF           Project Preparation Fund
PSAP          Agricultural and Livestock Services Program (Programme des Services Agricoles et
Pastoraux)
RT            Round Table Meeting
SAG           Group Support Specialists (Specialistes d'appui aux groupements)
SECADEV       Catholic Relief and Development (Secours Catholique et Developpement)
SMS           Subject Matter Specialists
SODELAC       Lake Chad Development Society (Societe de developpement du Lac)
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ................................................... iii
I. BACKGROUND ....................................................1
A. Chad's Macro-Economic Situation and IDA  Assistance Strategy .                                  ..............................1....................I
B. The Agricultural Sector and the Economy . ...................................................2
C. Agricultural Sector Activities ...................................................2
D. Agricultural Development Issues and Government's Strategy ..........                                  ................................ ........            3
E. Rural Development Institutions ....................................................4
F. Non-Governmental Organizations ...................................................                                                                     5
11. AGRICULTURE  AND  LIVESTOCK  SUPPORT  SERVICES ......................                                                  .............................6
A. Extension ...................................................6
B. Research ....................................................                                                                                         6
C. Crop Protection ...................................................6
D. Agricultural and Livestock Education                                                                .7
E. Producers' Organizations ....................................................7
111. PROJECT  PREPARATION  AND  LESSONS  LEARNED  .................                                                 ...................................8
A. Project Preparation ...................................................8
B. Lessons Learned from  Past and On-going IDA-funded Operations ....................................................8
C. Lessons Learned from  the Extension Test Operations ...................................................9
IV. THE PROJECT ...................................................                                                                                     11
A. Rationale ....................................................11
B. Project Objectives and Summary Description ...................................................                                                       11
C. Detailed Features ...................................................  12
D. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................                                                                      14
E. Procurement and Disbursements ...................................................                                                                    16
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ...................                                                        ................................ 20
A. Project Implementation ................................................... 20
B. Financial Management and Reporting ...................................................                                                               22
C. Training and Technical Assistance ...................................................                                                                22
D. Implementation and Effectiveness Monitoring ...................................................                                                      23
VI. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, JUSTIFICATION, SUSTAINABILITY, BENEFITS, AND RISKS .... 24
A .   Environm ental  Im pact ...................................................                                                                       24
B          . Justification ...................................................                                                                          24
C. Sustainability ...................................................                                                                                   24
D. Benefits ................................................... 25



ii                                                                                                                                                                     Contents
E. Risks ...........................................................................                                                                                            25
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................................................................                                                                                    26
TABLES
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary ...........................................................................  15
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan ............................................................................. 15
Table 4.3: Summary  of Proposed  Procurement Arrangements ............................................................................   16
Table 4.4: Disbursement Categories ...........................................................................                                                                   18
Table   5.1:  Project Staffing ........................................................................... 21
ANNEXES ...........................................................................                                                                                               28
1. Lettre de Politique Sectorielle en Matiere de Vulgarisation et Appui aux Groupements de Producteurs   ............ 28
2.A. Organigramme du  Ministere de l'Agriculture et de l'Environnement .............................                                               ............................... 32
2.B. Organigramme  du  Ministere de l'Elevage et de l'Hydraulique Pastorale ........................................................ 33
3. Project Cost Summary  and  Tables ........................................................................... 34
4. Objectives and  Indicators of Critical Implementation  Steps ............................................................................  39
5. Documents Contained  in  the Project File ............................................................................                                                       42
The project was appraised by a team comprising of Mr. Alassane Sow (AF3AE, Task Manager), Yao
Pokou (Resident Mission, N'djamena, Extension Specialist), Franz Schorosch (AF5AE, Principal
Service Specialist), Chandra Pattanayak (AF5AE, Agriculturalist), Jacques Fremy (AF4AE, Senior
Training Specialist), and Marie-Francoise Marie-Nelly (Financial Analyst, AF4AE).   Substantial
support was provided by Dirk Prevoo (Operations Analyst, AF3AE) and Danielle Favreau Santos
(Staff Assistant, AF3AE).
Mr. Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa (AF3DR) is the Depanment Director and Mr. Nils 0. Tcheyan (AF3AE), the
managing Division Chief.



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   The Republic of Chad
Beneficiaries:              Farmers and Herders, Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Livestock
Credit Amount:              SDR 17.0 million (US$24.53 million)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Economic Rate of Return:    Not Applicable.
Project Description:        The project is the first six-year phase of a long-term Agricultural and
Livestock Services Project (PSAP), which aims to increase agricultural
productivity in an environmentally sustainable manner, to improve
producers' incomes, and to rationalize the use of public resources in
support of rural services. The specific objectives of the proposed project
are to: (a) reshape extension into an effective service addressing farmers'
needs for improved crop and livestock production as well as for natural
resources management; (b) strengthen linkages between extension and
research focusing on participatory and adaptive research, and (c)
strengthen and build up producers' organizations. The components of the
project are: (a) extension service activities which will progressively cover
the country's fourteen "Prefectures", for crop and livestock production,
and natural resource management; (b) the establishment of a minimum
research capacity, through collaboration among researchers, producers
and extension agents, to develop, test, and promote improved production
practices and technologies; and (c) the enhancement of the capacity of
producers' organizations, through training and technical assistance, to
carry out group activities such as crop and produce marketing,
management and distribution of farm inputs, maintenance of agricultural
equipment and basic animal health care.
Benefits and Risks:         Benefits: By bringing more productive and sustainable technology to
550,000 agricultural/livestock producers and their families, the project
should increase their incomes and well-being. Benefits would likely
accrue in the following areas: (a) accelerated adoption and diffusion of
new   agricultural  technologies;  (b)  better  coordination  and
complementarity in the supply of agricultural services by both the
private and public sectors, and better responsiveness to adverse



iv                                                                       Credit and Project Summary
climatic conditions, as and when they arise; (c) improved levels of
technical skill and knowledge within the existing extension and
research agencies and at the producer level, including a better
integration  of women's  needs  into  the  development initiatives
undertaken; and (d) a greatly enhanced ability, within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Environment (MAE) and the Ministry of Livestock
and Hydraulics (MEH), to plan, coordinate and deliver agricultural
support services to the rural sector as a result of efforts to strengthen
the  capacities of various rural development institutions.   Such
progress, particularly in human resource and institutional development,
would permit maximum utilization of donor assistance as well as the
initiation, by MAE and MEH's institutions, of their own programs.
Risks: The risks foreseen include: (a) irregular and inadequate provision
of Govcrnment counterpart funds; (b) incffcctive management of
personnel, and (c) unavailability of qualified Subject Mattcr Specialists
(SMS) and scientists to upgrade the capacity of agriculturists. The first
risk would be mitigated through: (i) the opening by Government of a
project account in a commercial bank, to be used exclusively to meet
expenditures under the project; and (ii) the deposit by Government, into
the account, of an initial amount estimated to meet its countcrpart
contributions for the first three months. The remaining amount of its
counterpart contributions would be provided quarterly  in advance
according to a schedule of payments agreed upon betwcen the
Government and IDA. The improved monitoring and evaluation capacity
to be established under the projcct would likely mitigate the second risk;
intensive Bank supervision support from the resident mission would
further improvc overall project management. Finally, the risk related to
the difficulty in identifying qualified technicians would be addresscd by:
(i) open selection within MAE and MEH to select thc most qualified and
committed technicians; (ii) the organization of specific training programs
for SMS and researchers including short-term technical assistance to be
provided by the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture and (iii)
the execution of biennial project reviews aimed at correcting deficiencies
in implcmentation.
Map:                         IBRD No. 26753



Credit and Project Summarv                                                                 v
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ millions)
ESTIMATED COSTS                     LOCAI,          FOREIGN           TOTAL
1. Agriculture & Livestock Extension                  7.29            8.73            16.02
2. Adaptive Research                                  1.54             1 63            3.17
3. Producers' Groups Support                          0.94            0.21             1.15
4. PPF Refinancing                                    0.51            0.49             1.00
Base Costs                                           10.28            11.06           21.34
Physical Contingencies                                0.00            0.71             0.71
Priec Contingencies                                   2.75            0.80             3.55
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                  13.03           12.57            25.60
Proposed Project Financing
(US$ millions)
LOCAL           FOREIGN          TOTAL
Government                                            0.97            0.00             0.97
Producers' Groups                                     0.10            0.00             0.10
IDA                                                  11.96           12.57            24.53
TOTAL                                                13.03           12.57            25.60
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ millions)
FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99      FY00      FY01      FY02
Annual                  4.42      3.05       3.34      3.44       4.30      3.63     2.35
Cumulative              4.42      7.47      10.81     14.25      18.55    22.18     24.53
Net of taxes and duties.



I



REPUBLIC OF CHAD
AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Chad's Macro-Economic Situation and IDA Assistance Strategy
1.1    Chad presents a major economic challenge. It combines an uncertain political situation and
extreme poverty with good long-term growth prospects. With 6.2 million inhabitants and a per capita GNP
estimated at US$220 (1992), it is one of the world's poorest, least developed countries. Economic
development efforts have been characterized by successive promising starts stymied by serious internal and
external blows. Recurring political instability and domestic strife, which erupted into civil war from 1979
to 1983, have been and remain the most intractable constraints to development. Chad has also been
severely affected by drought in 1984 and 1990. Despite a major post-war reconstruction effort, the
country's physical infrastructure, human resources, and institutional and administrative capacity to support
development are today still at levels seen by most other low income Sub-Saharan African countries in the
1960s. Chad ranks 150th out of 160 countries on UNDP's 1992 Human Development Index.
1.2   IDA's program of assistance to Chad has been in "core" mode since 1992, because the country
lacked a good macro-economic framework. IDA has been implementing a minimal support program to
alleviate poverty by financing activities that address basic poverty issues, place minimal demands on
Government administration and finances, make maximum use of non-Government capabilities, and improve
the prospects for long-term growth.  The program has emphasized operations in health, education,
agriculture, infrastructure, and energy that could yield benefits for future generations. In response to the
opportunity presented by the realignment of the CFA franc (CFAF) in January 1994 and the stated
commitment of the Government to implement a new program of economic reforms (supported by the
Economic Recovery Credit - Credit 2589-CD), the Bank and the IMF are now deepening their policy
dialogue with the Government and the IMF towards the adoption of a medium-term policy framework. The
last Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was presented to the Board on May 25, 1993. The key challenge
is to provide assistance on short-term problems in a way that preserves and protects long-term development
prospects.  The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS.  By reinforcing agricultural
extension country-wide, the proposed project would contribute to increasing incomes in the rural areas,
and thus would be an important vehicle to reduce poverty.  It would help farmers enhance their
productivity and provide a strong supply response to the devaluation of the CFAF.
1.3    By creating conditions which maximize Chad's chances to realize its full economic potential, the
current adjustment efforts mark a new beginning and create the possibility to refocus the development
agenda on long-term issues. The Chadians see the Bank as a source of technical and institutional expertise
that is sorely missing in their own agencies. In recent years, the Bank has exercised a central leadership role
within the donor community, seeking to act as an impartial analyst as well as a concerned partner.
1.4    Despite all its handicaps, Chad has a number of positive elements to build and rely upon in
bringing about the expected supply response. Compared to other Sahelian countries, it is relatively well



2                                                                                         Chapter I
endowed with natural rcsources, especially for crop and livestock production and petroleum. It also does
not have, to the same extent, the problem of entrenched intercst groups supporting particularly poor
policies, which hampers many other African countrics; development efforts can thcrefore focus on building,
rather than dismantling. The Government has engaged in a positive, open dialogue with donors and
exhibited a willingness to try new approaches.  The proposed project, which seeks to establish local
tcchnical and institutional capacities to improve agricultural productivity in a sustainable manner, Mwould be
an important instrument to promote the needed supply response from the agricultural sector.
B. The Agricultural Sector and the Economy
1.5    The agricultural sector, including livcstock, plays a pre-eminent role in the Chadian cconomy both
in terms of its contribution to overall GDP and its share in cxports. It employs 80 percent of the Chadian
population and provides about 85 percent of export revenues. Over the 1990-92 period, the rural sector's
direct contribution to GDP wvas 40 percent; including its indircct contribution to other sectors of the
economy such as transport, its overall share would be about 75 percent of GDP. Within the rural scctor,
agriculture is the dominant activity but livestock also plays an important rolc. Two-thirds of rural sector
GDP and rural exports are accounted for by agriculture, livestock, xwhich includes beef production, shcep,
goat and camels, accounts for one-third. Cotton is the main cash crop and provides 45 percent of the
country's export earnings. Other important cash crops include groundnuts (with marketable surpluses
ranging between 50 and 70 percent of production), sesame and onions. Gum arabic is also an important
source of revenues and providcs about 10 percent of total exports. Cercals are grown mostly for home
consumption, but important marketable surpluses for millct/sorghum (up to 40 percent of production) are
generated during years of good rainfall.
C. Agricultural Sector Activities
1.6    The agricultural resource base of Chad is large and diversified. It is estimated that only 45 percent
of arable lands are currently exploited, compared to about 93 percent in Niger and 50 percent in Mali.
Some two million hectares arc cultivated every year (as against 1 .5 million in Mali) by about 700,000 farm
families. Crop production is esscntially rainfed, although flood recession cultivation for sorghum and rice
is important and covers 25 percent of cultivated lands. Partial and full water control for irrigated rice,
wheat, fruits and vegetables accounts for a small share of croppcd areas, but the irrigation potential is very
important, in particular along the Logone and Chari rivers, and around Lake Chad. Ccreal production
dominatcs agricultural activities. In 1992, 70 percent of cultivated areas were under cereals, followed by
19 percent under leguminous and oilseed crops and 11 percent under cotton. Tropical fruits and vegetables
are also grown but in small quantities.
I.7    The scope and diversity of agricultural activities differ according to the country's thrce main agro-
climatic zones (see map) including the Saharan zone in the north, the Sahelian zone in the center, and the
Soudanian zone in the south. The desert Saharan zone (annual rainfall levcls of less than 150 mm) covers
47 percent of the land area but is home to only two percent of the total population. Rural activities in the
Saharan zone are largely limited to date plantations, small subsistence irrigated agriculture and camel
raising. The Sahelian zone (rainfall levels between 150 mm and 900 mm) covers 43 percent of the land
area, and represents 50 percent of the total population. This zone, which encompasses the Lake Chad area,
provides the bulk of livestock activities, including 80 percent of the country's cattle population and over 75
percent of the small ruminants. The average contribution of this area to national production before 1990-
92 was important for cereals (44 percent), oilseed and leguminous crops (30 percent), vegetables (90
percent), fruits (35 percent) and Arabic gum (100 percent). The Soudanian zone (rainfall level above 900



Background                                                                                       3
mm) covers only 10 percent of the land area but represents 48 percent of the total population. It is
agriculturally diversified with 56 perccnt of agricultural lands used for cereal production, 26 percent for
oilseed and leguminous crops and 18 percent for cotton.
D. Agricultural Development Issues and Government's Strategy
1.8    Despite its immense potcntial, Chad's agricultural performance was poor during the 1980's,
compared with othcr Sahelian countries. For instance, the production of cereals - the most important
cropping activity- not only experienced very large fluctuations ranging from a low of 355,000 tons to a
high of 812,000 tons, but also was not as vigorous as in most other Sahelian countries. The annual rate of
growvth in land productivity for ccrcals is estimated at 1.2 percent during the 1980's i.e. less than half the
averagc growvth rate of other Sahclian countries (2.9 percent) over the same period. Overall, despite its
immense potential in terms of land and water resources endowment, Chadian agriculture has consisted of
low input-low output activities that limit its capacity to generate a strong supply response. Farming
practices are rudimcntary and crop rotation is limited to a fcw crops. Production is highly variable
dcpending on weather patterns, partly duc to lack of water management practices.  Livestock and
agriculturc are poorly integrated, manure is hardly used and plant protection activities are limited to cotton;
thus, soil fertility loss has become an important problem, in particular in the densely populated Soudanian
zone. Sevcral related factors explain this situation. First, incentives for the generation of marketable
surpluses are reduccd by the poor road network, wNrhich does not provide year-round communication linkage
between rcgions with high production potential, c.g. the Salamat, and the rest of the country. Second,
rescarch and extension activities have been limited in scope and purpose, focusing only on cotton
production and animal health. Third, the crop marketing systcm for domestic and cross border trade has
suffcrcd from high transaction costs. Although the official policy favors a liberal regulatory environment
(cxcept for cotton, prices of crops and livestock products are all markct-determined), actual implementation
of such a policy faccs many problcms Thcsc include illcgal regulatory measures, such as taxes levied by
local authorities, and road blocks.
1.9    The Government's strategy in the rural sector was discussed with donors in the December 1993
Round Table Meeting (RT).  The organization of the RT  featured a close collaboration between
Government and donors, namcly the Frcnch Cooperation, the United States Agency for International
Developmcnt, Unitcd Nations Development Program, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and
IDA. During the RT, Government confirmed its intent to pursue an outward-looking development strategy
for agriculturc and livestock. The key components of this strategy include: (a) the establishment of an
cnabling environment for the production and marketing of agricultural surpluses; (b) the improvement of
the road nctxwork; and (c) the promotion of producers' organizations, which would assume an increased role
in managing group activities in their communities. In addition, the Government has identified various
policy initiativcs to support cxtension and rcscarch and these are sct forth in its Policy Letter on Extension
(Annex 1). In particular, implcmentation of three policy measures will be closely monitored under the
proposed as well as other IDA-financcd opcrations. First among these is the effective liberalization of the
marketing of agricultural and livestock products, through the elimination of unofficial taxes and road
blocks as cll as the removal of all cxport taxes, within the framework of the Central African Customs and
Economic Union The removal of export taxes is currently undcrway in the context of the Bank-supported
Economic Recovery Credit (Credit 2589-CD). Also to be monitored is the implementation of the transport
scctor policy measures, in particular, the priority rehabilitation of main transport roads and the
construction of secondarv agricultural roads. Implcmentation of this policy is being carried out under the
IDA-financcd Transport Scctor Project (Credit 2520-CD). Third, a Government decree signed in 1993 has
established mcchanisms by which producers' organizations can become officially registered entities, that



4                                                                                    Chapter I
can operate autonomously vis a vis Government administration in conducting and managing productive
activities such as farrn input distribution, crop and livestock marketing, the provision of basic animal health
care, and the promotion of rural credit. Because the development of autonomous producers' organizations
is also an important component of the proposed project, Government's policy to promote these entities will
be closely monitored as implementation of this project unfolds.
E. Rural Development Institutions
1.10   Two ministries are responsible for rural development activities: the Ministry of Agriculture and
Environment (MAE) and the Ministry of Livestock and Hydraulics (MEH). MAE has a staff of 2,350. It
has overall responsibility for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policy. Its structure (see
Annex 2 A) involves one General Directorate which oversees all line services.  These include eight
technical directorates: Human Resources and Rural Training Directorate (DRHFRP); Crop Protection
Directorate (DPVC); Research and Agricultural Technology Directorate (DRTA); National Parks and
Wildlife Directorate; Natural Resources Directorate; Food Security Directorate; Rural Engineering
Directorate; and Water and Fisheries Directorate. In addition, MAE oversees the activities of six public
institutions responsible for carrying out rural development programs, at the national or the regional level.
These are: the National Rural Development Office (ONDR), the Cotton and Textiles Research Institute
(CIRAD-CA), the Lake Chad Development Society (SODELAC), the National Cereal Office, the
Interministerial Bureau of Studies and Projects, and the Rural Investment Fund. One notable feature of the
MAE's line services is that allocation of human resources is heavily biased in favor of N'djamena, the
capital city, leading to a weak institutional and implementation capacity in the field. The operational
activities of the Ministry's line services are few and many donors and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) have therefore been working with ONDR's field services (para. 1. 13) to implement agricultural
projects.
I.11   MEN has a staff of 930. Its structure (see Annex 2 B) includes one General Directorate, a
General Inspection Unit and three technical directorates including the Livestock Directorate, the Veterinary
Training and Research Directorate (DEFRVZ), and the Pastoral Organization Directorate (DOP). In
addition, MEH oversees the activities of the Veterinary Research Laboratory (LRVZ) and the Farcha
Slaughterhouse. The MEH is responsible for:  (a) the formulation and implementation of livestock
development strategies; (b) the promotion of pastoral associations; (c) planning and programming of
training activities for livestock agents, and implementation of extension services; (d) monitoring the health
of the livestock population and formulation and implementation of animal health protection measures; and
(e) formulation of supporting measures to promote livestock marketing and exports. Under the Bank-
financed National Livestock Project (Credit 1912-CD; PNE), important policy and legislative measures are
being implemented. These include a clear division of responsibilities between the MEH and the private
sector. Commercial activities including veterinary services are to be carried out by the private sector, while
the MEH is to focus its intervention on development activities such as extension/research, pastoral
association development and the dissemination of market information. The DOP has implemented, over the
last two years, pilot extension operations focusing on livestock activities as part of the preparation for the
proposed project.
1.12   ONDR has a primary responsibility to carry out extension services for farmers nationwide (except
in the Lake Chad area); it has also been involved in the distribution of farm equipment, the formation and
training of producers' groups, and several other rural development activities. ONDR has a staff of 1,100
with headquarters in N'djamena and three Sub-directorates located in the Soudanian, the Sahelian and the
Saharan zones, respectively. The Soudanian zone accounts for about 58 percent of ONDR's personnel, the



Background                                                                                5
majority of whom are contractual employees paid for by the French Cooperation. The rest of ONDR staff
are allocated to its headquarters (8 percent), the Saharan zone (2 percent), the Sahelian zone (8 percent),
and individual projects (24 percent).
1.13   ONDR has become the rural institution with the best project implementation capacity at the field
level, due to its involvement in the execution of most agricultural projects. However, such involvement
across a wide spectrum of activities and donors has overburdened ONDR's management capacity to plan,
coordinate and monitor its efforts. More importantly, extension services, which are ONDR's primary
responsibility, have achieved limited impact, due to a lack of medium and long-term training programs for
extension staff, frequent personnel reallocation in response to new donor-funded projects, and irregular
provision of Government contributions to ONDR's operating budget. In reaction to this situation,
Government announced during the RT (para. 1.9) that: (a) ONDR's operations would be refocused on its
official mandate to provide effective extension services; (b) staff involved in extension would specialize in
this function and not carry out or manage commercial activities; and (c) ONDR would progressively
disengage itself from commercial services such as the distribution of farm inputs. ONDR was responsible
for carrying out the agricultural component of the pilot phase of the proposed project (para. 3.1, 3.2) and it
will continue to be the major implementation agency (para. 5.2). In this regard, it would receive the
technical, institutional, and management support needed to become an effective national extension service.
F. Non-Governmental Organizations
1.14   NGOs' contributions to Chad's rural development activities are very important. Of the NGOs
which are very active, Catholic Relief and Development (SECADEV) is the most important in terms of
the scope and impact of its activities. Its operations, which are funded by the European Community
and religious organizations, cover 650 villages and 950 producers' groups. SECADEV operates with
80 field staff, one third of whom are female. When needed, the field staff receive technical
backstopping from SECADEV's specialists or from other institutions such as ONDR. The development
strategy of this NGO emphasizes the formation of producers' groups in which women are largely
represented. The activities covered are diverse, and include productive activities in agriculture and
livestock as well as off-farm activities (cereal banks) and non-farm activities (health and education).
SECADEV and other NGOs will be called upon under this project to carry out technical and
management training for selected producers' groups (para. 5.5).



II. AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK SUPPORT SERVICES
A. Extension
2.1    The main providers of extension services include ONDR, followed bv DOP, SODELAC and
NGOs. Until recently, the effectiveness of extension activities throughout the country was handicapped by
several factors: (a) inadequate training of field agents; (b) the poor linkages between extension and other
complementary activities such as research and crop protection, and (c) the "dilution" of extension activities
of field agents, such as credit, crop marketing, input supply, primarv health and education. Howevcr, the
encouraging cxperience of the test operations carried out by ONDR and the DOP (para. 3.1 and 3.2) has
led to a growing consensus among major extension scrvice providers and a few donors (the European Union
and the African Development Bank) on the need for spccialized extcnsion agcnts not engaged
simultaneously in off-farm  activities (credit) and non-farm  operations (hcalth).  Tfhis developmcnt is
encouraging for a larger-scale implementation of more effective extension activitics and opens up
opportunities for better donors' coordination in this area.
B. Research
2.2    Chad has three research institutions:  (a) DRTA; (b) LRVZ; and (c) CIRAD-CA at the Bcbcdjia
research station. DRTA has fifty-six staff including twcnty-six technicians. Equipped with a soil and plant
laboratory, it is responsible for coordinating and monitoring Chad's rescarch activities and providing
technical backstopping for seed production. The LRVZ is staffed with twenty-one scicntists including four
expatriates, and focuses on animal health and livcstock production research. The CIRAD-CA station is
staffed with clevcn scientists, including seven expatriates; most of its research efforts are devoted to cotton
production. Overall, research capacity in Chad is verV under-utilizcd because most technicians lack
operational means, arc based in the capital city, and do not havc adcquate research experiencc.
Furthermore, farm level trials, which are usually conducted within individual projects, have no formal
collaboration mechanisms with existing research agcncies and few  linkages with extcnsion services;
moreover, in many cases, they do not address produccrs' priority needs. The proposed project would
address Chad's two main research issues by:  (a) bridging the /armer-extension-research gap by
implementing participatory and adaptive research activitics aimcd at rclicving farmers' production
constraints, through their participation (along with extension agcents and researchers) in rcscarch
experimcnts; and (b) launching a process of building1 up an integrated nationcal research capacity, by
setting up interdisciplinary teams of researchers, made up of scientists draNvn fiom, and backstopped by,
existing local institutions.
C. Crop Protection
2.3    Crop losscs due to diseases, pests and insects arc particularly Important in Chad due to expansion
of cropped areas, overgrazing, deforcstation and increascd off-scason cropping. DPVC has a limitcd
budget and is insufficiently staffcd to address Chad's crop protcction issues at the ficld level. Crop
protection activities in the field are effective only for cotton and against locust invasion. The DPVC has
officially adopted an integrated pest management approach that is bcing promoted by the Permancnt
Interstate Committee for Drought Control in the Sahel.  Implcmentation of this approach is rendered
difficult, however, by the lack of operating funds, irregular supply of products, and morc importantly,
insufficient collaboration between DPVC and extcnsion servicc agencics such as ONDR. The proposed



Agriculture and Livestock Support Services                                                 7
project would place particular emphasis on the integration of crop protection activities with extension
services. In this context, a few specialists from the DPVC would be assigned to the project's extension
network as Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) to train extension agents.
D. Agricultural and Livestock Education
2.4    Formal training in agriculture and livestock is managed by the respective directorates of the
Ministry of Agriculture (DRHFRP) and the Ministry of Livestock (DEFRVZ). DRHFRP manages the
Doyaba Agricultural School (DAS) for the training of medium and low level technicians as well as twenty-
six Adult Professional Training Centers (CFPA) for the training of farmers and producers' groups. The
agricultural schools have not been operating regularly due to lack of financing and Government's inability
to hire new graduates; they are used sporadically for short courses and seminars. The CFPAs have
successfully trained and promoted the development of many producers' groups, but have been criticized for
being very costly and inefficient. The DEFRVZ manages the National School for Livestock Technicians
(ENATE), but this institution no longer offers graduate degree programs due to Govemment's inability to
hire the outgoing candidates.
2.5    Chad has now opted out of formal degree training for the civil service due to constraints in
Government's budget; DRHFRP and DEFRVZ have thus reoriented their programs towards re-training
Government technicians. Both institutions, together with ENATE and DAS have recently carried out
impressive re-training programs for the staffs of ONDR and MEH. In addition, efforts are under way to
develop formal training programs tailored to the needs of the private sector, and to reorient the training
programs for farmers provided by the CFPA. DRHFRP and DEFRVZ will be key players in the
implementation of training activities for field agents under the proposed project (para 5.8), presenting an
opportunity for these institutions, which have hitherto operated separately, to collaborate more closely.
E. Producers' Organizations
2.6    Most development institutions involved in Chad, including NGOs, perceive the promotion of
producers' groups as an important form of institutional strengthening in the rural sector. Over the last few
years, a large number of producers' groups (14,000 in 1992) have emerged or have been created by
development institutions, individual projects or NGOs. Country-widc discussions were held in 1992 on the
organization and development of these groups. Subsequently, a decree was issued that enabled these
groups to register as legal entities. In practice, however, the activities of most groups are rudimentary due
to: (a) lack of training of group managers; (b) heavy dependence on NGOs for funding; and (c) lack of
profitable activities that would nurture group interest and sustainability. The proposed project would
provide support services to producers' groups, putting emphasis on training and technical assistance. Such
support services would be demand-driven and tailored to the specific needs of individual groups, and would
address production and economic activities aimed at alleviating constraints to technology adoption.
Examples of possible activities include: training for local blacksmiths for the maintenance of agricultural
equipment; management of the distribution of farm inputs; group savings/credit management; basic animal
health care; and crop and livestock produce marketing.



III. PROJECT PREPARATION AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Project Preparation
3.1    Project preparation commenced with the appointment by IDA, in early 1991, of an extension
specialist based in N'djamena to assist Government in implementing test operations for the project. The
various steps have included: (a) the launching of test operations by ONDR, beginning in June 1991, under
a US$ 1.0 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF); (b) the launching of test operations by DOP in June
1992 with financing from the PNE; (c) a joint field-evaluation in October 1992, by the Minister of
Agriculture and several donors including the EEC, FAO, USAID and the Bank, to assess the performance
of the test operations carried out by ONDR; (d) an assessment of the performance of the test operations
carried out by DOP during the mid-term review of the PNE; (e) the creation of a National Chadian
Committee in November 1993, which evaluated the performance of the two test operations and drafted
proposals for the scope and organization of the proposed Agricultural and Livestock Services Project; (f)
pre-appraisal of the project in May 1994; and (g) appraisal in July 1994 by a joint mission involving IDA
staff and the National Chadian Committee. Preparation efforts were largely devoted to the implementation
of extension activities, and the encouraging results achieved so far (para. 3.2) have generated strong
enthusiasm from Government technicians and producers. Thus, in retrospect, it appears that the elaborate
preparation process was highly valuable because it helped secure Government's full ownership of the
project.
3.2    The two test operations implemented by ONDR and DOP focused on agriculture and livestock
activities, respectively. During the 1994 rainy season, these operations will cover 14 of the country's 51
districts (secteurs). By December 1994, some 200 agriculturists and livestock technicians were involved in
the two test operations, including 160 extension agents, while 3,200 Contact Groups (CG) totaling 64,000
farm households received services, or about ten percent of Chad's farming population. During the test
operation, over 4,000 demonstration plots were put in place by farmers (1,400 CGs) during the 1993 rainy
season. Yields on these demonstration plots were much higher than on the control plots. The yield
increases varied according to crops and technical recommendations as follows: groundnut: 32 to 51
percent; corn: 38 to I I I percent; cotton: 1 I to 50 percent; sorghum: 51 to 81 percent; millet: 47 to 94
percent; and rice: 21 to 92 percent. For the 1994 rainy season, ONDR plans to establish as many as
4,200 demonstration plots; 1,500 CGs are expected to be covered, representing 26,000 farm households.
3.3    The pilot phase has realized several important achievements, including: (a) the re-deployment in
the field of several agents who were hitherto based in N'djamena and lacked operational contact with
producers; (b) the rationalization of the work program of extension workers including a clearly established
time schedule for field visits; (c) the organization of functional and technical training through regular
workshops of the staff involved, and the participation of the extension coordinators and maniagers in
regional seminars in other African countries; (d) the specialization of extension agents with focus on
technical support services to producers; and (e) launching of adaptive and on-farm trials and experiments.
B. Lessons Learned from Past and On-going IDA-funded Operations
3.4    Four valuable lessons for the design and organizational setup of the proposed project were drawn
from the experience of two former Bank-supported operations-- the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(ARP) which was supported by Credit 1775-CD and closed in March 1992, and the Financial
Rehabilitation Credit (FRC) which was supported by Credit 1912-CD and canceled in December 1992, as



Project Preparation and Lessons Learned                                                      9
well as the ongoing PNE, which will be closed in December 1995. First, because management and
administrative capacities are limited in Chad, political commitment and Government ownership become
even more critical for the success of any Government-managed operation.  Failure to secure such
ownership appears to have largely contributed to the poor performance of the FRC. Second, the need for
simplicity in project design and organizational setup cannot be overstated. Government failed to properly
coordinate and monitor activities under the FRC and ARP because: (a) the FRC included two components
that were very different from each other (public resource management and cotton sector activities) and
required completely distinct management skills and experience; and (b) the ARP included a large number of
components to be carried out by several Government agencies from different ministries, and hence required
strong coordination capacity. Third, because of its limited implementation capacity, Chad will continue to
need technical assistance (TA) support. However, it is essential that the design and amount of such
technical assistance be tailored to specific needs. Under the FRC, too little technical assistance was
provided; for the ARP and the ongoing PNE, the amount of TA appears to have been too high. The
performance of the TA made up of several resident expatriates appointed under contracts ranging from two
to four years was generally poor: some lacked the necessary experience to fulfill their mandate, while
others faced resistance from their counterparts, who viewed the TA as an imposition. However, a
successful design of TA for accounting and management support was carried out under the PNE.
Expatriate TA needs were met under a broad contractual agreement with a consulting firm. Actual use of
TA was made periodically, based on expressed needs by local project managers. After three years of
periodic TA support, the project is now entirely managed by local staff. Clearly, the success of this
approach is mainly due to the fact that the use of TA has been demand-driven. Fourth, the separation of
extension services from other commercial activities such as credit and veterinary services, appears to have
contributed much to the improvement of livestock extension operations.
C. Lessons Learned from the Extension Test Operations
3.5    The implementation of the pilot operations has brought to the forefront several characteristics
(natural and human resources-based) of the Chad agro-pastoral system, which are fully reflected in the
design and organization of the proposed project. These include: (a) little research capacity, except for the
cotton research experiments in the Soudanian zone supported by French aid; (b) relatively limited number
of technicians with adequate operational experience; (c) very low levels of agricultural productivity despite
the existence of large untapped potentials both in agriculture and livestock; (d) an inadequate road
infrastructure network that leaves many areas virtually isolated during the rainy season, and long distances
to be covered by extension agents, namely in the Sahelian zone; and (e) the growing emergence of
producers' organizations. These lessons have been incorporated into the design of the proposed project as
follows:
(i)    First, a unified extension network, whereby extension agents would be trained to be
polyvalent in both agriculture and livestock activities, would be put in place. This would not only
allow for a more efficient use of the limited pool of available technicians but also be more
responsive to producers' needs.
(ii)   Second, a staff Selection Committee has already been established, along with transparent
operating procedures, to address the issue of staff assignment and associated turnover, at all levels.
This approach draws on the successful experience of DOP in managing the problem of high staff
turnover during implementation of the test operation. Personnel assignments that were first made
without consulting affected staff were partly responsible for the high turnover; subsequently, DOP



10                                                                                   Chapter III
created a Selection Committee, with full authority over staff reallocation decisions, to make
assignments following open consultations.
(iii)   Third, the type of logistical support to be provided to extension agents would be tailored to
their areas of intervention. Thus, extension agents operating in the Sahelian zone would be
equipped with large motorcycles whereas those operating in the densely populated Soudanian zone
would receive smaller motorcycles.
(iv)   Fourth, the timetable of the extension agents would no longer be uniform throughout the
year, but would take into account the seasonal variations in agricultural and livestock activities.
Thus, extension agents would visit producers on a bi-monthly basis during the rainy season (June-
October) when agricultural operations are at their peak, and on a monthly basis during the dry
season when livestock activities predominate.
(v)    Fifth, the periodicity of the Review of Technology Workshops, which are typically carried
out on a monthly basis, would be defined by project management taking into account the limited
availability of experienced researchers.
(vi)   Sixth, SMS would be directly involved in the implementation of on-farm experiments along
with researchers, to enable a practical understanding of farming constraints and potentials.
(vii)  Seventh, gender-neutral work schedules of extension agents would be modified to take into
consideration gender constraints such as the unavailability of women during certain periods of the
day; explicit efforts would also be made to increase the proportion of women in CG. Furthermore,
the appointment of female extension agents will be given a high priority. These efforts should
ameliorate the existing situation of women in tcrms of meager access to extension advice and low
participation in contact groups.
(viii)  Eighth, annual meetings (Iournees-bilans) will be organized to discuss and evaluate on-
farm research and extension themes that have been carried out during the season. Participants
would include producers, extension personnel and researchers.
(ix)   Ninth, the modus operandi of the proposed project would reflect the valuable experience
gained by DOP pertaining to the delivery of extension advice to transhumance herders. It appears
that these herds are best accessible during the July-September period, and that extension messages
of highest interest to them pertain to animal health.



IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale
4.1    Chad's agricultural and livestock production remains essentially a "nature-based" activity, carried
out through traditional practices with little improved technology. Because of the vagaries of climate, and
pressures on natural resources brought about by population growth, it has become more and more difficult
for the rural sector to generate economically sustainable activities. In this situation, rural producers need
technical advice, backed by relevant and well programmed research.  IDA has been working with
Government on formulating and improving policies in the rural sector through the PNE and during the RT
(para. 1.9). In addition, IDA has supported since 1991, the implementation of test operations carried out
by ONDR and MEH. There is currently an adequate body of low-cost, proven technologies that have been
successfully diffused during the pilot phase and which are ready to be transferred to farmers and herders
nationwide. Other technical innovations could be introduced from neighboring countries and tested under
the participatory and adaptive research component to generate additional technical recommendations.
Thus, the foundation has been laid for establishing, on a large scale, an improved extension management
system. IDA has gained considerable experience in this domain under the Agricultural Services Initiative in
Sub-Saharan Africa and is well placed to provide the necessary continuity in this area.
B. Project Objectives and Summary Description
4.2    The project is the first six-year phase of a long-term  (15 to 20 years) Agricultural and
Livestock Program (PSAP) to enhance the supply response from the agriculture and livestock sectors
focusing on extension, participatory and adaptive research, and farmer organizations. The goals of the
PSAP are to increase agricultural productivity in an environmentally sustainable manner, to raise
farmers' incomes, and to rationalize the use of public resources in the rural sector.  The specific
project objectives are to: (i) reshape extension into a demand driven service addressing farmers' and
agro-pastoralists' needs; (ii) establish a producer-oriented research base for agriculture and livestock
and to strengthen research-extension-user linkages; and (iii) strengthen producers' organizations
through management and technical training.
4.3    The components of the project are:
(a)    extension - aimed at consolidating and improving extension services to be provided by
ONDR/MAE and DOP/MEH, covering crop, livestock production, and natural resource
management; this will be coordinated nationally and will gradually cover all farming areas;
(b)    research - aimed at identifying and resolving on-farm production constraints through the
participation of farmers, extension staff, and three interdisciplinary research teams derived
from, and backed by, the LRVZ, DRTA, CIRAD-CA and regional and intemational
research centers.
(c)   farmer organization - aimed at promoting farmer participation and self-management of
group activities. This would be provided via training and technical assistance for activities
such as savings/credit management, crop and livestock produce marketing, group
management and distribution of farm inputs and maintenance of agricultural equipment.



12                                                                                     Chapter IV
C. Detailed Features
Extension (Base Cost - US$16.02 million)
4.4    The project would reinforce and reorganize the agricultural services by applying the experience
acquired during the past three years through the pilot extension test operations (para. 3.5).  The
Government aims to extend the system progressively nationwide. The project would be a vehicle for
Government to start implementing its agricultural extension and producers' groups support strategy as set
forth in its Policy Letter. This Policy Letter establishes instruments and mechanisms through which such a
strategy would be carried out. These include: (a) the strengthening of ONDR's management and
administrative capacities to coordinate and implement extension activities nation wide, covering both
agriculture and livestock; (b) rationalization of the use of public resources allocated to the provision of
agricultural services. An institutional study would be carried out by the end of Year 2 to provide
recommendations for a full integration of agricultural and livestock development activities (extension,
research and natural resource management), carried out by MAE and MEH (para. 6.3); (c) allocation of an
increasing share of Government's budget to rural development activities in order to meet the recurrent costs
implications of the PSAP; (d) progressive development of a producer-based research capacity involving
researchers, extension personnel and producers; and (e) establishment, by the project's end, of a national
research base on which a subsequent national research project could be developed.
4.5    The extension system to be applied would include: (i) establishing and adopting time bound and
supervised work programs; (ii) providing regular and continuous training to staff at all levels; and (iii)
strengthening the collaboration between extension and research. Extension workers would be trained to
become polyvalent so that farmers would only have one interlocutor. Based on the relative predominance
of crop or livestock production, extension activities would be managed by ONDR in areas where
agricultural activities predominate, and by DOP in areas where livestock activities are relatively more
important. In addition, a mass media strategy to be formulated by Chad's rural radio would be carried out
in support of face-to-face extension activities. A mass media strategy has already been developed.
4.6    Women's access to extension services will be strongly encouraged (para. 3.5, vii). First, extension
messages will be addressed to those household members actually carrying out crop or livestock production
activities. Second, the timing of the visits of extension agents will be designed so as to accommodate the
availability of women producers. Third, extension will closely collaborate with, and foster the promotion
of, producers' organizations. Participation of women in these groups, already taking place in some parts of
the country, will be monitored closely to ensure a steady increase. Fourth, the recruitment of women as
extension agents would also be encouraged.
4.7    The geographical coverage of the project would be expanded progressively. It is expected that by
the end of the project, all of the country's 14 administrative regions (Prefectures) would be covered, which
correspond to 32 districts (secteurs). About 40 percent of the rural producers (550,000 farm households)
would be directly reached by improved crop and livestock extension services. However, the phasing of the
geographic coverage will be flexible. It will be reviewed every second year during the two biennial project
reviews (see para. 5.10) in order to ensure satisfactory project implementation and the capacity for further
expansion. Specifically, expansion of project areas would be preceded by preparatory activities lasting up
to one year prior to the areas becoming operational. During these periods: (a) surveys would be carried out
to collect basic data and information on the rural population, infrastructure, farmers' activities, and support
services for agriculture, (b) the extension personnel would go through an orientation course to get
acquainted with the extension approach and would be trained to participate in the above surveys; (c)
farmers/herders and the local authorities would be thoroughly informed of the new approach, and their full



The Project                                                                                13
participation would be sought; (d) extension agents would draw up maps of their respective work areas and
prepare corresponding work programs; (e) necessary equipment would be ordered; (f) an initial diagnosis of
farrners' problems and constraints would be carried out on the basis of research; and (h) the regular training
of staff would be based on the technical messages to be transferred to farmers. Agreement was reached
during Negotiations that the above procedures would be followed. The project would finance civil works,
vehicles and equipment, incremental operating costs, training, and short-term consultants.
Participatory and Adaptive Research (Base Cost - US$3.17 million)
4.8    The primary goal of the research component is to identify and resolve on-farm production
constraints with the participation of farmers, extension staff (especially SMS), and researchers.  A
secondary goal is to build up the foundation for local adaptive/applied research capacity, to be supported
by a subsequent national research program. Research activities under the proposed project would be
carried out by three teams of researchers to be posted respectively in the Soudanian zone (at the CIRAD-
CA station in Bebedjia), in the central Sahelian zone (at LRVZ in N'djamena), and in the Northern Sahelian
zone (at Abeche). Each tean would include an agronomist, a zoo-technician and a socio-economist, and
would be assisted by a few research technicians. The research teams would be provided with technical
backstopping under specific contractual agreements with DRTA, LRVZ, and CIRAD-CA. In addition,
short-term periodic technical assistance would be provided by regional and international research centers.
Because the participatory and adaptive research process is a relatively new concept, this component of the
project needs external backstopping and guidance. The expertise of the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA) located in Nigeria would be called for in this special participatory and adaptive research
process. IITA in particular, has acquired adequate expertise on this topic through its work in Benin.
Through short-term assignments, IITA would advise the team members and participate in the follow-up and
evaluation missions of the research program.
4.9    The research teams would initiate the research activities by conducting diagnostic surveys in their
areas of intervention in order to identify priority production constraints. The teams would consider the
following production issues as guides for their investigation:
(a)    For crop production research, likely issues include: the protection of soil against erosion;
the improvement of soil fertility and water holding capacity by several means, including
the use of crop residues, the application of farmyard manure/compost, and the practice of
cereal/legume crop rotation; the application of chemical fertilizer in relation to moisture
availability and cost-effectiveness when combined with the aforesaid biological means of
improving soil fertility; the control of Striga (a weed) through the execution of an
integrated program; and the improvement of seed quality for better seedling emergence and
plant stand.
(b)    For livestock production research, likely issues include: the improvement of animal
husbandry practices; the economics of alternative livestock feeding practices; and the
provision of basic animal health care for the livestock population.
(c)    For integration of livestock into the agricultural production system, likely issues include:
the rational use of crop residues as feed for the livestock; the availability of forage; the
improvement of pasture land; and the issues of animal traction power, feed quality and
quantity, and the production of farmyard manure for crop production.



14                                                                                   Chapter IV
4.10   The research teams would seek out solutions to producers' constraints from best practices followed
by certain farmers in a given region or from already available research results within or outside the
country. They would discuss the potential solutions with farmers for acceptability and test them via on-
farm experiments in collaboration with the participating farmers and the SMS of the extension program. If
farmers are satisfied with the results, these would be put on demonstration in collaboration with a large
number of contact farmers. If not, the research teams will resort to controlled experiments at the research
station. Satisfactory solutions achieved at the station will be tested on-farm by researchers in collaboration
with farmers and the SMS. This process will be repeated until farmers are satisfied that the solutions are
workable and likely to be adopted by a large number of farmers. Agreement was reached at Negotiations
that research-extension-user linkages would be a key feature of the projcct; this has been specified in the
Government Policy Letter (para. 4.4). The project would finance all research expenses, excluding the
salaries of national researchers.
Farmer Organization (Base Cost - US$1.15 million)
4. 11   The goal of this component is to provide technical and management support to the country's
growing number of producers' groups in carrying out commercial and other group activities. In addition,
the project would provide tcchnical support to those groups which seek to become legally registered
entities. Most such activities would bc complementary to extension services and would facilitate the
adoption of improved technologies. Examples include: the management of procurement and distribution of
farm inputs; the training of blacksmiths to repair agricultural equipment; group savings/credit management;
marketing of crops and livestock products; and group management of veterinary drugs for basic animal
health services. Project staffing for the implemcntation of this component would include 32 Group Support
Specialists (SAG), who would operate as SMS for the management of group activities. Each SAG would
be posted at, and would cover, one district (secteur). Special induction training would be provided to the
SAG in order to enhance their understanding of group dynamics and group interaction techniqucs helpful in
identify ing priority needs and constraints. Thus, group training activities are not pre-determined but would
result from regular interactions and discussions betwecn the SAG and producers. The role of the SAG is to
determine, jointly with the respcctive groups of producers, the types and scope of support activities to be
provided. If and when such activities are identified, the SAG would formulatc corresponding programs to
be financed by the project. ONDR would subsequently enter into contracts with NGOs or other private
consultants (contracts to specify contributions of producers), who would execute such programs under the
supervision of the SAG. The project would finance the operations of SAG, excluding salarics, and the
costs of consultants and NGO interventions.
D. Project Costs and Financing
4.12   Project Cost. The total base cost of the proposed project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$20.35
million equivalent. Base cost estimates reflect July 1994 prices. Physical contingencies were applied to
civil works (10 percent) and other investments, excluding training (15 percent) and amount to US$0.72
million or about four percent of base costs. Price contingencies amounting to US$3.5 million or about 17
percent of base costs are based on the forecasts of international inflation for foreign supplied goods (2.5
pcrcent per annum), and on annual inflation in Chad for local costs (20 percent in 1994, 10 percent during
the first half of 1995, and 5 percent thereafter). The foreign exchange portion of the total project cost,
including contingencies, is 49 percent. A summary of total project costs of US$25.62 million equivalent,
including the US$ 1.0 million PPF, is given in table 4 1 below. A detailed breakdown of costs by component
and by v'ear is provided in Annex 3.



The Project                                                                                               15
Table 4.1: Project Cost Summary
(FCFA millions)                     (USS '000)               Percenta e
Foreign    Total
Exchange   Base
Local   Foreign     Total       Local    Foreign      Total                Costs
1. Adaptive/OnFarn        863.50    911.89    1,775.39   1,541.96   1,628.37   3,170.33         51      16
Research
2. Extension            4,084.28  4,889.83    8,974.11   7,293.36   8,731.83  16,025.20         54       79
3. Producers' Groups      529.56    118,13      647.69     945.65     210.95    1,156.60        18       6
Total Baseline Costs     5,477.34  5,919.85   11,397.19   9,780.97  10,571.15  20,352.13        52      100
Physical Contingencies      2.56    399.85      402.42       4.58     714.03     718.61         99        4
Price Contingencies      1,540.03    447.52    1,987.55   2,750.05    799.14   3,549.19         23       17
PPF Advance               285.60    274.40      560.00     510.00     490.00   1 000.00         49        5
|TotalProject Costs      7,305.53  7,041.62   14,347.16  13,045.60  12,574.32  25,619.90         49      126
4.13    Project Financing. Project costs would be financed by an IDA  credit of US$24.53 million
equivalent, which would account for about 92 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties.
Contributions from Government and beneficiaries would be US$1.07 million equivalent. IDA's financing
would cover: civil works, vehicles and equipment, training, technical assistance, incremental operating
costs and consultants. Government would provide, in addition to its monetary contribution, the necessary
personnel for carrying out extension, research, and producers' group activities as well as administrative and
accounting personnel. The contribution of producers (US$0. 10 million) represents the share of producers'
group in the costs of training programs to be executed by NGOs and consultants. The tentative financing
plan is presented in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan
(including PPF advance)
FCFA millions                        US$ millions
Producers' Groups                                                56.0                                0.10
Government                                                     543.2                                 0.97
IDA                                                         13,736.8                               24.53
TOTAL                                                       14,336.0                               25.60



16                                                                                         Chapter IV
E. Procurement and Disbursements
Procurement
4.14   Table 4.3 below summarizes the project elements, the estimated costs and proposed methods of
procurement. During Negotiations, agreement was reached on a timetable for the completion of bidding
documents and contract documents for cnrtical goods and services. Agreement was also reached on
standard processing time for all important procurement activities.
4.15   Civil Works are estimated at US$0.80 million, of which 0.65 million will be financed by IDA.
They include rehabilitation works for training schools, ONDR's facilities in N'djamena, and rehabilitation
and construction of research infrastructures at the Bebedjia, Abeche and N'djamena Stations. Procurement
for, and supervision of, these works would be managed by the Chad Agency for Public Works (ATETIP)
under contractual arrangements with the project. Signature of a contract between the project management
and ATETIP would be a Condition of Effectiveness.
Table 4.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
TOTAL
PROJECT ELEMENT                      PROCUREMENT METHOD                        COST
ICB        LCB      OTHER    NIF2
1.     Works
1I.1 Construction/Rehabilitation                      0,653               0.154      0.805
(0.65)                         (0.65)
2.     Goods
2.1 Vehicles                               4.22                                      4.22
(4.22)                                    (4.22)
2.2 Motorcycles                            2.14       0.10                           2.24
(2.14)     (0.10)                         (2.24)
2.3 Equipment                                         0.25       0.07                0.32
(0.25)     (0.07)              (0.32)
3.     Consultants' Services                                             1.58     0.40       1.98
(1.58)             (1.58)
4.     Miscellaneous
4.1 Training                                                     0.82                 0.82
(0.82)              (0.82)
4.2 Incremental Operating Costs                       3.207      10.501 0.51         14.21
(3.20)    (10.50)             (13.70)
4.3 PPF Refinancing                                               1.00               1.00
(1.00)             (1.00)
Total                                             6.36       4.20       13.97     1.06     25.60
(of which IDA)                                   (6.36)     (4.20)     (13.97)             (24.53)
2      Not IDA financed; this includes the contributions of Government and Producers' Organizations.
3      Construction and rehabilitation works.
4      Rehabilitation works to be financed by Government.
5      To be executed byATETIP.
6      Contribution of Government and Producers' Organizations to the costs of training provided by NGOs.
7      Items or groups of items for operation and maintenance of vehicles.
8      Operation and maintenance of motorcycles and equipment, travel allowances, and office supplies.
9      [Utilities (electricity, telecommunications, water) and costs of the mass media activities to be financed by
Government.
10     Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



The Project                                                                              17
4.16   Goods financed by IDA would include vehicles, furniture, office equipment, field equipment,
materials, and spare parts. Most of these goods would be grouped into packages of at least US$150,000
each, and procured in the project's first and third years using international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). Contracts
for goods procured under ICB would total US$6.36 million. The following may be procured under LCB:
vehicle operations and maintenance expenses under contracts estimated to cost less than US$150,000
equivalent each, which in aggregate would not exceed US$3.2 million; and goods under contracts estimated
to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent each, which in aggregate would not exceed US$310,000, provided
that: (i) the procedure is open and not based on restricted lists of suppliers, (ii) contracts are awarded to
the lowest evaluated bid without using merit points system for the evaluation of bids; (iii) bids are opened
in public; (iv) evaluation of bids does not allow for the rejection of bids without documenting the reasons in
the bid evaluation report; and (v) any rejection of the lowest bid would require IDA's prior review. The
remaining goods, which cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent, may be
procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount
of such procurement does not exceed US$110,000 equivalent.
4.17   As mandated for procurement financed by IDA, agreement was reached during Negotiations to use
IDA's Standard Bidding Documents, modified to suit the project requirements. Agreement was also
reached during Negotiations that for fixed price contracts, the invitations to bid will include price
adjustment provisions in case the award is delayed beyond the bid validity period as specified in the bidding
document.
4.18   Consulting Services financed by IDA totaling US$1.58 million would be contracted in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981). Such contracts, which would be subject to prior review, would include
short-term consultancies for training in adaptive research, training in producers' group activities,
accounting and audit, and various monitoring and evaluation tasks. Prior IDA review would not apply to
consultant contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent in the case of finns, or US$50,000
in the case of individuals. However, this exception would not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts, to single-source selection or continuation, and to assignments of a critical nature, as well as to
amendments raising the contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or above in the case of firms, or
US$50,000 or above in the case of individuals. Agreement was reached during Negotiations that Bank
standard documents for the selection of consultants would be used. Selective post review of awarded
contracts below the threshold levels would be carried out on a selective (one in five) basis.
4.19   The Borrower's procurement laws and regulations have been reviewed by Bank staff and found to
be acceptable. Chad's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to take precedence over contrary
provisions, if any, in local regulations.
4.20   Contracts for works managed by ATETIP that are estimated to cost above US$100,000 equivalent,
and for goods above a threshold of US$100,000 equivalent each, would be subject to IDA's prior review
procedures.
4.21   ONDR would be responsible for project financial management, administration, procurement and
disbursements (para. 5.6). The submission to IDA by ONDR of a detailed procurement plan (including
timetables) satisfactory to IDA, would be a Condition of Effectiveness.



18                                                                                         Chapter IV
4.22   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)    prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower;
(b)    comprehensive quarterly reports to IDA by the Borrower indicating:
(i)    updated cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project, including best
estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies;
(ii)    revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract
award, and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)   compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Disbursements
4.23   The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of the categories shown in Table 4.4 below. To
expedite disbursements and ensure that funds for the project are available when needed, Government would
open, in a commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account operated
by ONDR. Immediately after Credit Effectiveness, IDA would make one initial deposit of US$500,000
into the Special Account. IDA would replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of
incurred expenditures and evidence that such expenditures were eligible for financing. Monthly bank
statements and reconciliation of the Special Account statements would accompany replenishment requests.
To ensure timcly availability of counterpart funds, agreement was reached at Negotiations that the
Borrower will make provisions in its annual budget for such funds, provide such counterpart funding
quarterly in advance and pay it into a Project Account to be used exclusively for project purposes.
Establishment of this Project Account with an initial deposit of US$50,000 equivalent would be a
Condition of Effectiveness. The IDA credit would be disbursed over a seven-year period after Credit
Effectiveness, and the expected closing date would be December 31, 2001.
Table 4.4: Disbursement Categories
Category of Expenditures                     Proposed IDA Allocation        % of Expenditures
(USS million)             Financed by IDA
Foreign         Local
I Civil Works (excluding rehabilitation)                       0.65            100              90
2. Vehicles, Motorcycles, Equipment and Materials              6.78             100             90
3. Training                                                    0.82             100             90
4. Consultants' Services                                        1.58            100            100l
5 Incremental Operating Costs 10                              12.33             100             90
6. PPF Refinancing                                              1.00
7. Unallocated                                                 1.37
TOTAL                                                  24.53
I()    F.xcluding utilities (electricity, telecommunications, water) and costs of the mass media activities.



The Project                                                                             19
4.24   Disbursements of the IDA credit would be fully documented, except for incremental operating
costs and contracts valued at less than US$50,000 equivalent, which would be against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be retained at ONDR for
review by IDA staff during supervision missions and for regular annual audits.



V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Implementation
5.1   Implementation of project activities would mobilize, by the end of Year 5 of project
implementation, a total of 729 technicians, including 676 agents allocated to extension activities, 19 agents
to research activities, and 34 agents for the producers' group component (see Table 5.1). The job
descriptions for each category of the PSAP personnel have been defined. No new staff is expected to be
hired except for female extension agents. Potential vacancies will be filled by transfers and redeployment
of existing staff from the MAE, the MEH and ONDR.  A list of staff to be employed for the
implementation of project activities in Year 1, including their work site and training plan, has been
presented to the Bank.
5.2    ONDR would be responsible for overall coordination of project activities, and its Director
General would be the project manager. Furthermore, implementation of extension activities would be
carried out by ONDR in the 19 districts located in the "agriculture-dominated areas", and by DOP in the
remaining 13 districts located in "livestock-dominated areas". The staffing structure of the extension
personnel would be similar in each of the 32 districts and would include: (a) one "chef de secteur" to
manage and coordinate extension operations at the district level, who would be an agronomist or a zoo-
technician in the districts managed by ONDR or DOP, respectively; (b) two SMS, respectively, on
agriculture and livestock; (c) one to three supervisors, according to the size of the district; and (d) several
extension agents. The staff in these 32 districts would be assigned exclusively to either ONDR or DOP, as
the case may be; they would be drawn from existing MAE and MEH staff, and would be allocated to
ONDR and DOP through an open selection Committee. Two national extension coordinators from ONDR
and DOP would be appointed and be responsible for formulating the annual extension programs,
respectively, for the "agriculture-dominated zone" and the "livestock-dominated zone". ONDR's general
manager would harmonize and integrate the two programs into one unified program. Each year, he/she
would submit, for approval, the national program including its budget to the National Committee of the
PSAP (CONAPSAP). This Committee would be chaired by the Director General of MAE; the Director
General of MEH would be the deputy chairperson.
5.3    The Director of DRTA will manage the research component of the project. He/she would be
responsible for the technical and organizational aspects of research activities and would be accountable for
their results. He/she would: (a) approve annual work plans formulated by the research teams (para. 5.4);
(b) assess the annual progress of research activities; (c) review and approve technical assistance requests
formulated by the researchers; and (d) submit to the CONAPSAP, for approval, the work program for the
research component. He/she would also chair a research committee composed of the Director of LRVZ,
the Director of the Bebedjia-based CIRAD-CA, the Director of DOP, a representative from ONDR, and
members of the interdisciplinary research team based in N'djamena. This research committee would survey
the research activities (on-farm and on-station trials) at least twice a year, and would hold meetings every
year in February to discuss the results of the preceding season and the work plan for the next season, and in
late September or early October to review the progress of the research teams. The committee would have
overall responsibility to: (a) ensure that the research programs are oriented towards resolving farmers'
constraints; (b) ensure that agriculture and livestock activities are fully integrated; (c) assess the annual
work plan including budget submitted by the research teams, including request for technical support from
international centers, and (d) evaluate progress in research activities and take follow-up actions to correct
shortcomings.



Project Organization and Implementation                                                       21
Table 5.1: Project Staffing
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Years
5 & 6
Extension Agents                                   241    385    414    453    461
Supervisors                                         50      50     62     62      62
Subject Matter Specialists                          42      42     42     72      72
Chefs de Secteur                                    24      24     32      32     32
Chefs Circonscription                               10      10     10      10     10
Regional Extension Coordinators                      6       6      6       6      6
National Extension Coordinators                      2       2      2       2      2
Senior Training Specialists                          2       2      2      2       2
Regional Training Coordinators                       0       7      7       7      7
Monitoring/Evaluation Specialists                    3       8      8      10     10
Specialists Rural Radio                              7       7      7      7       7
On-farm Research Coordinators                        2       2      2       2      2
Logistic/Administrative Staff                         1      3      3       3      3
Sub-Total Extension Staff                          390    549    597    668    676
Researchers                                          6       9      9       9      9
Research Technicians                                 8      10     10      10     10
Sub-Total Research Staff                            14      19     19      19     19
Coordinators                                         0       2      2       2      2
Group Support Specialists                           16      32     32      32     32
Sub-Total Producers' Groups Staff                   16      34     34     34      34
TOTAL                                              420    602    650    721    729
5.4   Implementation of research activities would be carried out by three inter-disciplinary teams of
researchers to be based in N'djamena and in Abeche covering the Sahelian zone, and in Bebedjia for the
Soudanian zone. These teams would be composed of researchers from, and backstopped by, DRTA,
LRVZ, and CIRAD-CA. In addition, scientific and training support would be provided under short-term
assistance from IITA. In order to formally establish the technical support to be provided by local and
international institutions, the Director of ONDR would sign contractual agreements with DRTA, LRVZ,
CIRAD-CA, the International Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA), and IITA. The Director of DRTA
would review the drafts of all such agreements covering: (a) the objective and nature of the agreements; (b)
the scope and nature of training to be provided to the research and extension staff, the sharing of
technology and skills, and scientific support to the researchers through research contracts; (c) field plot
facilities for conducting on-station research, administrative and logistic support to the research teams; and
(d) participation in the evaluation and the audit of research activities. Government has submitted drafts of
these agreements to IDA for approval; their signature will be a Condition of Effectiveness.
5.5    Two Coordinators to be appointed and based in N'djamena would supervise and manage the
implementation of the producers' groups component. At the field level, 32 SAG would be posted. The
SAG, who would function as SMS for group activities, would be responsible, jointly with members of
producers' organizations, for the identification of specific training needs to be provided by private



22                                                                                 Chapter V
consultants. Based on group training needs, the SAG would formulate annual training programs and
submit them, via the Coordinators, to the Director of ONDR for review. The Director of ONDR would
subsequently submit the proposed program to the CONAPSAP for approval.  If the programs are
approved, ONDR would launch a consultation process among private consultants including NGOs, based
on specific TORs prepared by the Coordinators. Implementation of all training activities woudl be carried
out by private consultants, while monitoring and evaluation of these activities would be carried out by the
coordinators assisted by SAG.
B. Financial Management and Reporting
5.6    Financial management and project accounts would be the responsibility of ONDR. The audit of
the accounts of the US$ 1.0 million PPF which funded the ONDR-managed test operation has been done.
The auditors' recommendations to improve ONDR's accounting system and management procedures, and to
recruit and train new accountants, together with an action plan for their implementation was discussed with
Government during Negotiations. The implementation of the action plan would be a Condition of
Effectiveness. The project's accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Association. ONDR would provide
interim and annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and position of the project.
Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the project accounts, including the Special Accounts, would be
audited by international independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and reports satisfactory to IDA on such
statements will be provided within six months of the close of its fiscal year. The auditor's reports would
include a "separate opinion" on the adequacy of the accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability
of statements of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, the operation and use of the Special
Accounts, and compliance with financial covenants. A short list of auditing firms and the TORs for the
audit of project accounts has been discussed and agreed upon by the Government and IDA.
5.7    The Director of ONDR would prepare and submit to IDA six-monthly reports highlighting
progress achieved in project implementation, issues encountered and solutions proposed. The content of the
reports would evolve during project implementation, with the objective of keeping the Bank informed of the
most important project parameters, but without constituting an undue burden for project staff or
overlapping with other documents supplied to IDA (monitoring report, budget, work program). Agreement
on this was reached at Negotiations.
C. Training and Technical Assistance
5.8    No new buildings are foreseen for in-service training to be held at the national training centers,
because existing infrastructure requires only minor rehabilitation. Intensive training, to be managed by
DRHFRP and DEFRVZ would be conducted under the project due to the relatively low educational
qualifications of agricultural technicians and their generally limited field experience. Twenty training
modules have been defined as part of project preparation. Systematic in-service training would be carried
out for all project staff. All new staff entering the program would receive special induction training.
Fortnightly training sessions would be held for village extension workers (VEW), to upgrade their
professional and technical qualifications and to train them in implementing specific extension
recommendations. During these sessions, VEWs and SMS would review their collective experience and
discuss problems and related solutions. The SMS and the researchers would periodically hold technology
review meetings, which, besides evaluating the performance of technologies under application, would also
serve to develop and disseminate new extension recommendations according to the agricultural calendar. In
addition, farmer exchange visits would be organized to allow villagers to discuss with their colleagues



Project Organization and Implementation                                                  23
technologies unfamiliar to them. Other training activities include a series of planned and prepared study
tours for extension and research staff within and outside the country. Presentation to IDA of the first
yearly training programs would be a Condition of Effectiveness. The project would finance all expenses
related to the training component.
D. Implementation and Effectiveness Monitoring"1
5.9    The two existing monitoring units in ONDR and MEH would be strengthened, in order to establish
the necessary capacity to monitor and evaluate the project's progress, especially the institutional
improvements in extension and research services. The monitoring unit of ONDR would have overall
responsibility for coordinating the monitoring and evaluation efforts, with substantial inputs from MEH's
monitoring unit. First, a project implementation review would be held annually (in November), based on
the previously submitted work program and budget, to assess:  (a) progress of the project against
monitoring indicators (Annex 4); (b) adherence to sound extension management principles as agreed
between the Association and the Borrower; (c) mobility of the extension and research staff, (d) adequacy of
levels of training; and (e) staffing levels and extension ratios. Second, a beneficiary assessment and an
impact evaluation study would bc carried out after years two and four, respectively, based on selected key
indicators. This beneficiary assessment would be used to judge client satisfaction, i.e. farmers' reaction to
the services they receive; the impact evaluation study would determine the extent of adoption and diffusion
of new technologies.
5.10   Biennial Implementation Reviews. Because of the institution-building nature of the PSAP and
the need for flexibility, the project's implementing agencies and the Bank would carry out biennial
implementation reviews after project years 2 and 4, in licu of one mid-term review. These reviews would
be based on: (i) a review of the key indicators referred to above; (ii) a beneficiary assessment; (iii) an
institutional audit of the performance of the three key executing agencies, i.e. ONDR, DOP, and DRTA;
and (iv) the impact evaluation study. In the case of the first review, Government would carry out an
institutional study that would provide recommendations on the modalities for integrating the agricultural
and livestock services institutions. The beneficiary assessment, the institutional audit and the impact
evaluation study on the adoption and diffusion of agricultural and livestock production technologies would
be carried out with consultant support. They would be initiated (six months) and completed (one month)
prior to the respective biennial reviews under TORs acceptable to the Association. The findings and
recommendations of these reviews would be implemented promptly thereafter. The Director of ONDR,
together with the Directors of DOP and DRTA would be responsible for organizing these reviews and
studies and for submitting to IDA, one month prior to the dates of the two biennial reviews, the reports,
data and other information required for a successful review. Within six months of the Credit closing date,
the Director of ONDR would be responsible for preparing a Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
This report would summarize the project's performance and evaluate lessons learned, based on
documentation prepared by each of the implementing agencies.  Agreement on the above-described
procedures concerning monitoring, the two biennial implementation reviews, and the preparation of the ICR
has been reached during Negotiations.
li    The proposed approach to monitoring and evaluation is identical with the approach described in detail
in: Monitoring and Evaluation in Extension Agencies, World Bank technical paper, ISSN 0253-7494;
No. 79.



VI. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, JUSTIFICATION, SUSTAINABILITY, BENEFITS, AND
RISKS
A. Environmental Impact
6. 1    The project is rated a "C" under the environmental assessment. Chad is experiencing a degradation
of its natural resources: in the Sahelian zone as a result of drought, and in the Soudanian zone as a result of
localized population pressure, erosion caused by wind and water, deforestation and loss of vegetation. The
PSAP would directly support efforts to improve the sustainability of agricultural and livestock productivity
activities, to more efficiently utilize the low quantities of chemical fertilizers and pesticides that are being
used, and to introduce improved cultural practices and herd management that would halt or reduce loss of
soil and vegetation. Such practices include soil conservation, water harvesting, contour planting, minimum
tillage, composting, agro-forestry and better integration of crops and livestock. All of these measures would
be environmentally positive.
B. Justification
6.2    Experience with the pilot operations in Chad and experience with extension services in other
African countries, e.g. Burkina Faso and Kenya, suggest that agricultural extension is a high return,
low cost undertaking. In Chad, the results of the pilot operations (para. 3.2) have demonstrated that
the potential to increase productivity is large. The estimated average cost of extension services to be
provided under the project (excluding personnel salaries) represent US$5.90 per farm family. This
figure compares favorably with estimates from Burkina Faso (1989/90-1990/91) of US$5.50 per farm
household. Thus, it seems reasonable to conclude that improved extension and research activities, as
proposed under PSAP, are likely to be a worthwhile undertaking.
C. Sustainability
6.3    The project places heavy emphasis on institutional strengthening of Chad's extension and research
systems. The strengthening of producers' groups would increase their capacity to deal with issues relating
to credit, input supply and crop and livestock marketing, thus building up the necessary forward and
backward linkages that, combined with access to improved technical advice, would ensure continuous
improvements in productivity. Also, the national capacity to plan and coordinate agricultural extension
would be greatly enhanced by the project and the project would be a vehicle to address the integration of
the agricultural and livestock service institutions. An institutional study expected to be completed by the
end of the second year of project implementation would provide specific recommendations for the
modalities of such an integration. These recommendations will be discussed and an implementation plan
issued as part of the results of the first biennial review of the performance of the project. The Government
has committed itself in a Policy Letter on Extension, to carry out a study that would provide
recommendations on the modalities for the integration of agricultural and livestock services (including the
possibility of merging MAE and MEH) and to undertake measures of institutional reform based on the
recommendations emerging from the study. Thus, with integration, the national extension services would
become a more efficient and cost-effective system of technology generation, diffusion and adoption.
Nonetheless, the need to cover the continuing costs of maintaining public extension and research services
will remain. A larger share of Government's counterpart funds would be called for under a follow-up
project, making up the second time slice of the PSAP.



Environmental Impact, Justification, Sustainability, Benefits and Risks                    25
D. Benefits
6.4    By bringing more productive and sustainable technology to 550,000 agricultural/livestock
producers and their families, the project should increase their incomes and well-being. Benefits would
likely accrue in the following areas:  (a) accelerated adoption and diffusion of new agricultural
technologies; (b) better coordination and complementarity in the supply of agricultural services by both
the private and public sectors, and better responsiveness to adverse climatic conditions, as and when
they arise; (c) improved levels of technical skill and knowledge within the existing extension and
research agencies and at the producer level, including a better integration of women's needs into the
development initiatives undertaken; and (d) a greatly enhanced ability, within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Environment (MAE) and the Ministry of Livestock and Hydraulics (MEH), to plan,
coordinate and deliver agricultural support services to the rural sector as a result of efforts to
strengthen the capacities of various rural development institutions.  Such progress, particularly in
human resource and institutional development, would permit maximum utilization of donor assistance
as well as the initiation, by MAE and MEH's institutions, of their own programs.
E. Risks
6.5    The risks foreseen include: (a) irregular and inadequate provision of Government counterpart
funds; (b) ineffective management of personnel; and (c) unavailability of qualified SMS and scientists to
upgrade the capacity of the existing pool of agriculturists. The first risk would be mitigated through: (i)
sufficient allocations by Government of counterpart funds to extension as part of the core priorities in the
Public Investment Program, and the opening by Government of a project account in a commercial bank, to
be used exclusively to meet expenditures under the project; and (ii) the deposit by Government, into the
account, of an initial amount estimated to meet its counterpart contributions for the first three months. The
remaining amount of its counterpart contributions would be provided quarterly in advance according to a
schedule of payments agreed upon between the Government and IDA. The improved monitoring and
evaluation capacity to be established under the project would likely mitigate the second risk; intensive
Bank supervision support from the resident mission and headquarters would further improve overall project
management. Finally, the risk related to the difficulty in identifying qualified technicians would be
addressed by: (i) open selection within the two ministries of the most qualified and committed technicians;
(ii) the organization of specific training progranis for SMS and researchers including short-term technical
assistance to be provided by IITA; and (iii) the execution of biennial project reviews aimed at correcting
deficiencies in implementation.



VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1    A "Policy Letter on Extension and Research" signed by the Minister of Plan and Cooperation was
officially transmitted to the Bank on February 6, 1995.
7.2    The following assurances wcre obtained during Negotiations:
(a)    The expansion of project areas will be done following the careful implementation of preparatory
activities (para. 4.7);
(b)   the commitment to establish research-extension-user linkages, which will also be stated in
the Policy Letter (para. 4.10),
(c)    agreement becween the Borrower and IDA on a timetable to finalize the bidding and
contract documents for critical packages (para. 4.14);
(d)    agreement between the Borrower and IDA on standard processing time for all important
procurement activities (para. 4.14);
(e)   IDA's sample bidding documents will be used; for fixed price contracts, price adjustment
provisions will be included in case the award is delayed beyond the bid validity period
(para. 4.17);
(f)    IDA's sample documents for the Use of Consultants will be used (para. 4.18);
(g)    the Borrower will make provisions in its annual budget for counterpart funds and deposit
these funds quarterly in advance into a Project Account to be used exclusively for project
purposes (para. 4.23);
(h)    project accounts, including the special accounts, will be audited by international
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; reports satisfactory to IDA on such statements
will be provided within six months of the close of its fiscal year. A short list of auditing
firms and TORs for audit of project accounts have been presented to IDA (para. 5.6);
(i)    submission of six-monthly progress reports (para. 5.7);
(j)    proccdures concerning monitoring, biennial reviews and preparation of ICR would be
adopted, as stated in para. 5. 10; and
(k)   the Borrower will carry out by the end of Year 2 an institutional study that would provide
recommendations on the modalities of integrating the Agricultural and Livestock Services
institutions (para. 6.4).
7.3    Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)    signature of a contract between project management and ATETIP (para. 4.15);



Agreements Reached with the Borrower, Conditions and Recommendations                     27
(b)    adoption by ONDR of a detailed procurement plan satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.21);
(c)    establishment of the Project Account with an initial deposit of US$50,000 (para. 4.23);
(d)    Signature of contractual agreements between ONDR and DRTA, LRVZ, CIRAD-CA and
IITA (para. 5.4);
(e)    establishment by ONDR of an accounting system acceptable to IDA, and implementation
of an action plan, following the audit of the PPF accounts, to strengthen its financial
management capacity (para. 5.6); and
(f)    presentation to IDA of the first yearly training programs for the project personnel
(para. 5.8).
7.4    Recommendation. With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 17.0 million (US$24.53 million equivalent).



28                                                                                   Annex I
SECTOR POLICY LETTER REGARDING EXTENSION AND
SUPPORT FOR PRODUCER GROUPSl
1.    INTRODUCTION
The Government of Chad has decided to use World Bank financing to support an Agricultural and
Livestock Services Program in keeping with the general strategy of the Government's policy on research,
extension and support to producers' groups.
The agricultural sector, which comprises food production, cotton growing and livestock, is the
most important sector of the economy, not only by virtue of the value placed on its production but also
because it is the biggest employment provider in Chad. Depending on the crop year, it accounts for
between 30 and 40% of GDP.
However, agro-pastoral productivity is currently falling well below its potential, based on a
comparison of yields achieved with those of other countries in the region with similar conditions.
In the livestock sector, the policy followed has long given priority to actions relating to animal
health because of major epidemic diseases. The insufficiency of extension efforts to teach improved
farming techniques has had a detrimental effect on productivity.
With respect to food production, extension has been timid and moreover scattered over isolated
projects, often handicapped by insufficient human and financial resources.
II.    STRATEGIES
The Sector Policy Letter for Livestock Development prepared in connection with the National
Livestock Project (Credit 1912-CD; PNE) reaffirmed the Government's determination to promote the
private sector in the area of veterinary product supplies and to liberalize the veterinary profession by
progressively and concomitantly reorienting the activities of the Ministry of Livestock and Hydraulics
toward development tasks such as research, extension and support for rural professional organizations.
The Round Table on Rural Development, Food Security and Water Resources held in December
1993 focused primarily on:
(1)   the need to make improved technologies available to producers;
(2)   improving research capacity focusing on producers' needs; and
(3)    supporting and promoting independent producers' organizations.
III.   OBJECTIVES
The agreed program has the following objectives:
*     to generate relevant technologies through research and to disseminate them by means of
extension activities targeting the majority of crop and livestock farmers, with a view to improving farm
productivity and farmers' income levels;
I     Translation of original letter, which is available in the Project File.



Annex 1                                                                                   29
*      to strengthen the capacity of rural professional organizations by providing their members
with technical and business management training both upstream and downstream of production (marketing,
input supplies, rural credit, equipment maintenance, etc.);
*      to establish a regulatory and administrative environrment that is conducive to the business
and investment activities of the pnvate sector.
IV.   INTERVENTIONIST POLICY  DESIGNED  TO  ACCOMPLISH  THE OBJECTIVES
SET
The Govemment undertakes to establish a unified national agro-pastoral extension program, the
implementation of which will be coordinated by the ONDR. This system will use about 730 extension
agents, all civil servants, including 460 village level extension staff. No new hiring will be required, the
mobilization of this manpower being handled through the redeployment of available staff within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Environment (MAE) and the Ministry of Livestock and Hydraulics (MEH).
This will involve the following:
(I)    ONDR activities will be redirected toward its primary function of extension work
and its administrative and institutional capacity will be strengthened;
(2)    MEH will reinforce the special importance it has given, within the PNE, to
livestock extension services; the structure of this Ministry will therefore be adapted to this
role and all the staff needed will be made available to the Department responsible for this
activity;
(3)    A multi-sectoral approach combining crop growing and livestock will be given
priority. The themes to be developed will be based on: soil fertility, agro-forestry, agro-
pastoral practices; post-harvest technologies; product storage and processing;
(4)    The personnel involved in program execution will be subject to strict screening by
committees formed for this purpose, using procedures to be mutually agreed upon by the
parties. Arrangements will be made to ensure reductions in staff tumover; and
(5)    An institutional and organizational study on the modalities for integrating the
support activities to be provided by the public sector in agriculture and livestock will be
carried out before the end of the second year of project implementation.  The
recommendations resulting from this study are to be incorporated into the findings of the
first biennial evaluation of the PSAP and will be implemented from the third year of the
project. This integration will make it possible to streamline public investments and
minimize any duplication of effort.
V.    BASIC PRINCIPLES FOR ORGANIZING AND MANAGING THE PROGRAM
(1)    Extension:
The need to use a multi-sectoral approach as our starting point makes it essential that we obtain
polyvalent crop and livestock extension agents. The extension service will integrate activities relating to
cropfarming, livestock and natural resources management. In order to accomplish this, all extension
districts will be provided with specially trained professionals and technicians in crops and livestock. The
methodology to be used will comprise:



30                                                                                         Annex I
(a)    regular visits by extension workers to contact producers' groups in accordance
with a schedule drawn up with active farmer participation;
(b)    regular supervision of village and district level extension agents;
(c)    regular and continuing training of extension workers by specialized technicians
(TS),
(d)    regular training of TS by researchers at periodic technology review workshops.
(2)    Research
Special emphasis will be placed on on-farm research by interdisciplinary teams. This will call for:
(a)    the collaboration of researchers/extension workers and farmers, both male and
female, in preparing programs, setting priorities and conducting trials and tests;
(b)    the training of research technicians and TS, who will be supervised by
interdisciplinary teams, to enable them to participate more effectively in the research. This
will make it possible to:
-      develop research-farmer links and facilitate the dissemination of
the findings of the on-farm research,
*      help reduce the over-proliferation of field trials and tests; and
-      compensate for the small number of researchers in the
interdisciplinary teams.
(c)    asking national, sub-regional and intemational research agencies to support the
interdisciplinary teams;
(d)    taking measures to establish a local research capability that will eventually be
supported by a national research program;
(e)    laying  the foundations for a  national agro-pastoral research  system  by
strengthening the DRTA and the research stations (Bebedjia and the Animal Health
Laboratory in Farcha) under the coordination of the National Research Council; and
(f)    the Government taking the necessary steps to see that the Bebedjia station is
provided with research funding by asking donors and beneficiaries, such as
COTONTCHAD, for financial support.
(3)    Support to Producers' Groups
It is the Government's policy to encourage the emergence of rural organizations that are
independent in terms of managing their own economic and social activities. To this end, a decree was
issued to give such groups legal recognition.
The activities in support of these organizations will focus on providing training and advice on the
organization and management of activities both upstream and downstream of extension. Such activities
might concern, for example, agnrcultural input supplies, the mobilization of savings and credit, the



.4nnex 1                                                                                       31
maintenance of agricultural equipment, the preparation and implementation of community micro-projects
and storage and marketing operations.
These support activities will be carried out by private consultants and/or NGOs that specialize or
provide advisory services in the organization and management of group activities and that will also serve as
facilitators for the formulation of contractual relations with external partners (private, banks, NGOs).
(4)    Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring mechanisms will be set in place within the program to serve as a management tool
allowing for corrective measures to be taken systematically Key performance indicators, to be determined,
will make it possible to assess the program's cost-effectiveness. Periodic evaluation mechanisms will also
be set in place to determine the impact of this program.
(5)    Women's Participation
The Government will see to it that there is effective involvement of women in the contact groups
(extension) and in the producers' groups and will ensure that there is a steady increase in the number of
women represented in the research and extension support activities targeting producers, and on staff
training.  Special emphasis will be placed on the monitoring and evaluation of program activities that
specifically target wvomen and steps will be taken to make all levels of training more accessible to women.
(6)    Agricultural Sector Financing
The Government's interest in strengthening and improving support services to the agro-pastoral
sector will be reflected in the increase in the amount and share of the state budget allocated to fund the
capital and operation expenditures of this sector. In order to implement this first six-year phase of the
PSAP, the Government undertakes to mobilize its counterpart funds in a timely fashion. These counterpart
funds will be increased considerably during the subsequent phases of the PSAP with a view to the
Government of Chad gradually taking over the financing of these activities, thereby ensuring the
sustainabilitv of the national extension program.
Done in N'Djamena on February 6, 1995
Mrs. Manamn Mahamat Nour
Minister of the Plan and Cooperation



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTLIRE
ET DE LUENVIRONNEMENT
Disiunation dcs.5igIcs-desdDireclions CentrIles
MINISTRE DE                  D_ .P.V.C.                                     Direction de la Protection des V5getarx elt *lu Condilionnerrent
L'AGRICULTtlRE ET        D1CADlN[ rDRIFf.1P.                                    Direclion des Ressources I himanes. (Ie la Formation Rinale ot des Programmes
DEi  ENVI!NONWNt-ME NT                                          1).1 p .A.S.A     D I)rertioii di: 1a I oirootion des Prrxlrrtronrss Aniotes etl tc Ila 1cr:ec:nle Alirrienta,re
1),R I.A          DItrection de a  elerc:treicthC Ct de la I echniulorjie Agricoles
D G.R .t I A.     Direction (lu Genie Rural el de llHydraulquo Agricole
TRjECTION GENER1tALtR                                              Df P E.          Direction  des Foir6is ci de la Protectioni de tlEnvironnement
DG  Mr Mdiairiat Al,                                             D.P N R.F.         Direction des Parcs Nationaux et des 1eserves de faune
Adji Mr Lamn Tciioue                                              D.E.P.A A         Direction des Eani,. PNdies et Aqiacrlttuire
__              A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)i 
r_       *_                             _                         _    _._ |TA 1         D         ._                                        I'N.R              r    D.E P.A  T
MNr Ngaic Malnarial Mi ALKrkjbakar Ourde Ousta Mr Ali Adotim Djcioru    Mr Abbe Madi Pierre    Mr Nadjo Atndetkernii     M, Moctar Diphane p i  Mr Daboutaye Bali      Mr Lassoti Kourdina
Mine Allaf Agnes                                                                                                               Yniari
Divisions              Divisions              Divisions               Divisions              Divisions                   Services                Services               Services
Interventions et      Enseignement            Slalistiqiies Agricoles   Rediercte Agricole    -lydratiitipe Aijricote   Renoisenenit el        Anrnineageminenls el    Picties el
Su.reillance          Agricole                                                       .       e Amenadnilrts Ionciers    ConseFvationi des sots    Conservation de       Vuilgarnsalion
Commerciatisation       Technologies flutos                                                         ta LIaune
Leg,slalion el Comrtoe  Formation Protes     des Prodrtns Agricoles                        llablat et Constrictions    Anrer;g-nieinl Foreis                          Alrqiactitture
Plthylusdiitlalle      srofitielle vit.ale                         Sentences vIt l'l.1iits  1uralhs                     et I loimition dles  I - i  1DotogiC elCt
Operations de                                                               Prorlintts I oresliers  Capiires             Contenboux
Cond,lronnemnent       t'ei soninel el        Secours d-Urgence       Laboraloie des Sols   Plistes Itifrales
Formalion Cofntinue                            el Plants                                        Cliasse el ContentienLX  Coliteniieux         ' Recherche Hydiobolotglque
# Gest.on Adminitrative                        D A F                                           E!udes r t Controte                                                         el Technologique
et Logislbque      - Actions Associatives                           D A F.                                             Persontnel elt          Personnel et
el Cooperatives      I 1Anlerines                                   DAf                           Conmptabilile           Comoptabiti[[ Personnel el
It bases phy/o-                                 Regionales de       e fernes serirericieres                                                                              Complabilite
I anstaires        Potitiques el              Slalrstiqijes           Oeli               i 5 Subdivisonrr   I'ispecihors                    Fr6  etfeors
posies observation      Programmes               Agncoles                Mala              |     u rbGeni6e Ral             Foreslrrres
piylosandaure                                                         Moussa Foyo                                    r 15 Cartronnements
- Suivi el Evaluation                              Corom                                               r Fotesliers
des Projets                                 * Centfu senrencier
Gassi
Finanices el Malefiel                         t IRC T Bbei/ja
Ft cole Ea-tat1                                         Qrrjanisitltsel Etbjissentctents seusAutr lie
* CE TA Doyaba
! * 0' Regcinales CFPA                                  0 N D R.           Officei Nationat de Developpenwrnl Irlral
SOtr-LAC         Soci6ler n  Develoipneiiienil dii Laic
ONADEI I          Office National de Developpemenl de It torticulture
O.l.E P.          Bureau Inlefnuinist6riel d'Etudes el de Projets
I.R.C.T.          linstiltlt de Redcietlce sur le Colon et Textiles
F.lR.            : onds dInlerverition Rurate
O.N.C.            Oince Nationial des C6ulates
..i



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE L'ELEVAGE ET DE L'HYDRAULIQUE PASTORALE (MEHP)
_______                                       MINIS~~~~~~~~~ TRE         __ _ _ _Cabinet
LRVZ
|    Farcha                                                         _
IGI
(~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~F AFFtow  trgttqe deFrc
DIRECTION GENERAF rc                                                          t
DERA                                         HDEFRVZ                                                                   DOH                                         ONHPV h  asiHe
|C>hin ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                 Diretio de rognsto  pastorate   Sbrdn     [inEW
r-rATE                                   c     t       des  en  tcnqedere
AGF          Juxtaorstrigotion esde Fan'rchte
P,"*. Vmd,.-                                                                           DEFRVZ       DirectiDn de renseignement de la formationZ etboratoreedes recherches vetrrlnaire et zootechniques
DERAV        Dfircentionade r hydrauietue  passouracese annlaeose
DHA          Direction hydmotratique etssinanissemn
DOPROV        irSction deaprorgaisaionnet destpradutse tmtre  C~ia
ENATE        Eoe nationale dus prdutn aecniqs de
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G                                                          Jutaoito giilial _   Rin_ rante
_    P  v                                                                                 DEF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVZ  Labrectoir des reherhesen delaWrinatire   et zoot a ehnqescevtdar     roenu
d.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NP                                                   OfrDEA  ircthe nonicrhydsraul e ue passourales  tlageose
DHA          Direction aydmnttraule et fwinanisrem
ENAPROET  Scle# crtbapprv sonement ds   prodiuets et mat*vaiel Wia
SE           Suivi Evaluation
ISONAPRA    Soc!Wt nationale du production animale                                                                       4



CHAD
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (AGSERV.T                                                                                         %      % Total
Project Cost Summary                                      (FCFA '000)                                (USS)                    Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total     Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A CIVIL WORKS                                      -      402,988       402,988            -     719,620.5     719,6205       100       4
B. VEHICLES                                        -    2,013,908     2,013,908            -   3,596,2634    3,596,263.4      100      18
C. MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                      -    1,016,765     1,016,765            -   1,815,650.9   1,815,6509       100       9
D. EQUIPMENT
COMPUTER                                         -       36,256       36,256             -      64,742 9      64,742.9      100        -
OFFICE FURNITURE                            36,350       46,801       83,152       64,911.4     83,573.5     148,484.9       56       1
FIELD EQUIPMENT                             14,954       29,950       44,905       26,704.3     53,4828       80,187.0       67        -
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                            51,305      113,007       164,312      91,6157     201,799 1     293,4148        69       1
F TRAINING                                   292,328      107,535      399,863     522,014.2     192,026.7     714,040.9       27       4
Total Investment Costs                         343,633    3,654,202     3,997,835     613,629.9   6,525,360.6   7,138,990 5      91      35
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                   939,028      805,999     1,745,026    1,676,835.0   1,439,283 4    3,116,1184     46      15
MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                 356,672    1,224,573     1,581,244     636,913.7   2,186,737.1   2,823,650.8      77      14
FIELD EQUIPMENT                             63,996      219,720      283,716      114,278.6    392,356.4     506,635.0       77       2
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                            26,827       15,351       42,178       47,905 7     27,412.7      75,318.4       36       -
Subtotal OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE          1,386,522    2,265,642    3,652,165    2,475,933.0   4,045,789 6    6,521,722.6   62       32
B. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                        2,895,192           -     2,895,192    5,169,985.7           -   5,169,985.7        -      25
D. CONSULTANTS & NGOs                        852,000            -      852,000    1,521,428.6            -   1,521,428.6        -       7
Total Recurrent Costs                         5,133,714    2,265,642    7,399,357    9,167,347.3   4,045,789,6  13,213,136 9     31      65
Total BASELINE COSTS                            5,477,347    5,919,844    11,397,191    9,780,977.2  10,571,150.2  20,352,127.4    52      100
Physical Contingencies                         2,565      399,855      402,420       4,580.8     714,026.0     718,606.8      99        4
Price Contingencies                         1,540,027     447,521     1,987,549    2,750,048.9   799,145.4   3,549,194.3      23       17
Total PROJECT COSTS                             7,019,940    6,767,220    13,787,160   12,535,606.9  12,084,321.5  24,619,928.4    49      121
co x
SUMEA.XLS



CHAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0- :F
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (AGSE
Project Components by Year                                      Totals Including ContIngencies (FCFA 000)                                                 Totals Including Contingencles (US$H
Totals Including Contingencies              t995        1996        1997         199f        1999        2000         Total        1995        1996        1997         1996        1999        2000         Total
1 ADAPTIVE AND ON FARM RESEARCH         710.466     299 303      260,271     291,580     292,316     25' 773     2.111.710  1,268.689 1    534.4/00    464,7702    520.679 0    521.993 0    460.309 1   3.,70,910 5
2 EXIENSION                           2,597 301    1,1627342    1,523.226    1 520.652    2,581.425    1,449,533    10.40.479   4.638,037 4  2,07',.611 4  2,720,046 2  21715,449 7  4,620.401 5  2,5.8,451 7  19,357,997 9
3 PROOUCER GROUPS                        73J53     101,461      112.431     123,575     206.793 _ 216,759         834 971    132.0562    181,1905    2007686    220,6702    369,2725    387,0698   1.491.0200
Total PROJECT COSTS                        338t,719    1,563,107    1,895,928    1.935.801    3.086.534    1,924,065    13,781.160  6039,7847   2,7912619   3.365.5952   3.456.7969   5511.6671   3,435.830f   24.619,9294
COMYRT XLS



CHAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (AGSERV
Ependlture Accounts by Years                                          Totals Including Contlngencles (FCFA '000)                                                   Totals Including Conilngencles (USS)
Totals Including Contingencies                    1995        1996         1997         1998         1999         2000         Total        1995         1996         1991         1999        1999         2000         Total
I. Investment Costs
A CIVIL WORKS                                 451,071                                                   -            -      451,071    805,484 8                  -            -            -                  -     805.484 8
8 VEHICLES                                   1,119 118      81,598       50.146       12,850    1,059.681      40.502      2,363,895   1,998,425 7    145,710 4   899547 0     22,946 4  1,892.287 0    72,324 2   4,221.240 7
C MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                  313 764       77.338      262,116      273.419      252,036       77.935     1,2569609   590,293 6    138,104 0    468.064 0    488.248 8    450,065 0    139,169 4   2,243.944 8
0 EQUIPMENT
COMPUTER                                     33.895        4,963                         -            -           -        38,858      60.527 2     8,962 9            -           -            '                   69 390 1
OFFICE FURNITURE                             79 389       14.148            -                                              93,538    141,766 6     25.264 9                        ,                         ,      6 17,031 5
FIELD EQUIPMENT                              49 489          223                         -                        -        49.712     88,373 1        397 6                                     -                   88.770 7
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                            162,773       19,334            -            -                        -       182.108    290,666 9     34,525 4                                     -            -     325.192 3
F TRAINING                                    196 691      101 070       75 456       49,689       20 069       19 432      462,405    351.233 9    180,481 3    134.742 0     88,729 S    35,837 4     34,699 S     825,723 6
Total Investment Costs                         2,243,419     279,340      397,718      335,958    1,331,786      137,868     4.716,088  4,006.104 9    498,821 1    692.3530    599.924 8  2.378.189 4    246,193 1   8 42158692
I1 Recurrent Costs
k OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                    287.444      324,235      352,472      370 385     385 026      355,448      2,075,011    513,292 9    578.991 3    629,414 5    661,401 9    687.546 9    634.728 8   3,705.376 2
MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                  228,571      256.643      305,861     322.798      332,946      343,452      1,790 271    408,162 1    458.291 2    546.180 7    576,424 5    594 546 8    613,307 8   3 196 913 1
FIELD EQUIPMENT                              21 932       47 772       58,697       60.536      66.203       68 292       323.432     39,164 1     85 307 8    104,816 9    108,100 2    118,219 0    121.949 4    577 557 3
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                              3 952        4 885        7 091       11,561       12,045      12.552        52.086      7.056        9 8,722 9   12,663 1     20,644 9    21,509 6     22 413 4      93 010 4
Subtotal OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE            541 898      6.13.535     724,122      765,280     796 221      779 744      4,240,800    967,675 5   1,131.313 1  1,293,075 1  1,366.571 5  1,421.822 3   1,392.399 4   7,572.857 0
B TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                           488 162      522.373      620,003      662,280     695,394      730,164      3,718 377    871,718 6    932,808 9   1 107,148 1  1.182,643 2  1,241.775 3  1,303,864 1   6 639,958 2
D CONSULTANTS & NGOS                          108 240      127.859      164,085      172,289     263.133      276,289      1 111 895    193 285 7    228,318 8    293.009 1    307.659 5    469 880 0    493,374 0    1,985 527 0
Total Recurrenl CosIs                          1,138 301    1 283 767    1,508 210    1.599850    1,754,747    1.786,197     9,071,072   2.032,679 8  2 292.440 8  2 693.232 2  2,859,874 2  3,133.477 7  3.189,637 5   16,198,342 2
Total PROJECT COSTS                              3,3801719    1,563,107    1,895,928    1.935,807    3 086 534    1,924,065    13,787,160   6 038,784 7  2,791.2619   3,385,585 2  3,456,798 9  5,511,667 1  3,435,830 6  24 619 928 4
EAYRT XLS



CHAD
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (AGSERV.
Expenditure Accounts by Components         ADAPTIVE AND
Totals Including Contingencies                ON-FARM                   PRODUCER
(US$)                                        RESEARCH    EXTENSION    GROUPS            Total
I. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS                               572,846.3    232,638.4           -    805,484.8
B. VEHICLES                                  319,002.8   3,902,237.9          -   4,221,240.7
C. MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                 60,514.6   2,082,313.9   101,116.3   2,243,944.8
D. EQUIPMENT
COMPUTER                                    26,156.4     43,233.7           -      69,390.1
OFFICE FURNITURE                            75,547.9     91,483.6           -     167,031.5
FIELD EQUIPMENT                              1,166.8     87,603.9           -      88,770.7
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                           102,871.2    222,321.1           -    325,192.3
F. TRAINING                                   80,516.9    721,309.6    23,897.1     825,723.6
Total InvestmentCosts                        1,135,751.8   7,160,821.0   125,013.3   8,421,586.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                   560,242.4   3,145,133.7          -   3,705,376.2
MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                 193,252.7   2,826,811.8    176,848.5   3,196,913.1
FIELD EQUIPMENT                            477,641.2     99,916.1           -    577,557.3
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                            93,010.4           -            -      93,010.4
Subtotal OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE         1,324,146.8   6,071,861.7    176,848.5   7,572,857.0
B. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                         324,977.4   6,125,315.2   189,665.6   6,639,958.2
D. CONSULTANTS & NGOs                        986,034.4           -   999,492.6   1,985,527.0
Total Recurrent Costs                        2,635,158.6  12,197,176.9  1,366,006.7  16,198,342.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                             3,770,910.5  19,357,997.9  1,491,020.0  24,619,928.4
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                           1,804,044.8  10,042,047.7   238,229.0  12,084,321.5
EXCMTF.XLS



CHAD                                                                                                                 c 
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (AGSERV.
Expenditure Accounts by Components           ADAPTIVE AND
Totals Including Contingencies                 ON-FARM                   PRODUCER
(FCFA '000)                                   RESEARCH    EXTENSION   GROUPS            Total
I. Investment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS                                  320,794      130,278          -      451,071
B. VEHICLES                                     178,642    2,185,253          -     2,363,895
C. MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                    33,888     1,166,096    56,625     1,256,609
D. EQUIPMENT
COMPUTER                                       14,648       24,211          -       38,858
OFFICE FURNITURE                               42,307       51,231          -       93,538
FiELD EQUIPMENT                                  653        49,058          -       49,712
Subtotal EQUIPMENT                               57,608      124,500          -      182,108
F. TRAINING                                      45,089      403,933     13,382      462,405
Total Investment Costs                            636,021     4,010,060    70,007     4,716,088
II. Recurrent Costs
A. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                      313,736     1,761,275         -     2,075,011
MOTORBIKES AND MOTORCYCLES                    108,222     1,583,015    99,035     1,790,271
FIELD EQUIPMENT                               267,479       55,953          -      323,432
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                               52,086            -          -       52,086
Subtotal OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE              741,522     3,400,243    99,035     4,240,800
B. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES                            181,987    3,430,177    106,213     3,718,377
D. CONSULTANTS & NGOs                           552,179            -   559,716      1,111,895
Total Recurrent Costs                           1,475,689    6,830,419    764,964     9,071,072
Total PROJECT COSTS                               2,111,710    10,840,479    834,971    13,787,160
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                              1,010,265     5,623,547    133,408    6,767,220
EXCMTL.XLS



O)bjectives :111(1 InId(icators of Crilical li plelliell;alion Slel)s
PROJECT'S COMPONENTS AND ACTIVITIES    OBJECTIVE                                               INDICATORS Of IMI LLMENIATION PROGRESS                                IMPLEHENIAI ION DATE
A. Agricutture and Livestock               Objective                                                                                                                                                 Cs
Extension
1. Extension                                 Establishment of a National Extension            1. Creation of the National Selection Cooimittee (CONAPSAP)            Oct. 1994
System integrating crop and Livestock
activities
2. Creation of the Staff Selection Coeanittee                         Nov. 1994
3.,Assignment of personnel necessary to launch project                Feb. 1995
activities
4. Establishment of key central services at ONDR(M/E, D0,             Nov. 1994
Extension, Gr-oup Support, ILJnan Resources Management, On-
farm research, Administration/Finance)
5. Strengthening of regional districts by establishing                Jul. 1995
regional services of M/E, Logistical Support and Training
Improving the manageliient of extension          6. Appointment of one Specialized Technician (IS) in                  Mar./Apr. 1995
services                                           agriculture and one TS in livestock in every district.
Assignment to the program of 10 crop protection specialists
from the Crop Protection Directorate.
7. Establishment of work programs for all staff involved in    Feb. 1995
the project
8. Regular (monthly and bi-monthly) Visits of extension               Continuous
agents to Contact Groups
9. Regular supervision of all extension agents at all levels   Continuous
10. Regular training for all staff                                    Continuous
11. Provision of vehicles for att fietd staff.                        Dec. 1y9S
12. Adoption of an Interministerial decree (Ministries of             Nov. 1995
Finance, Agriculture and Livestock) establishing the level
of travel allowances to be provided to different categories
of agents
13. Establishment of the  bilan` of extension activities              Annual
14. Establishment of demonstration plots and demonstration            Continuous
herds by producers
Promotion of more sustainable production    15. Emphasize improvement of soil fertility and better water  Continuous
systeems                                           management
2. Training                                I Improving the technical skills of agents    16. Initial training in extension for a group of Chadian                    Mar. 1995
at all levels and improvement of the               technicians with support from consultants and the extension
capacity of ONDR and MEH to manage and to          service specialist of the Bank mission
train their personnel.
17. Induction training  for all personnel involved in the             Mar./Api. 1995
extens ion program



18. Organization of re-training sessiorns for all extension            Annual
agents
19. Organization of cross-training sessions for all                    Jun 1995
extension agents
20. Selection of all personnel through an open consultation    Continuous
using clearly defined criteria and profiles
21. Evaluation of the personnel with the view to identify              Annual
add i t i ona I t ra i n i ng neecds
3. Monitoi tri. Evaluation                    Monitoring/Evaluation of field activities   22. Monitoring of ratios of extension agents to Contact                       Annual
(ref. key extension indicators)                     Groups and extension agents to supervisors
23. Monitoring implementation of work programs of agents               Continuous
24. monitoring the quality and regularity of trainiing                 ContinuoLis
sessions
* Monitoring/Evaluation of the quality and    25. Creation of a M/E service at 0NOR's headquarters and at    Sep. 1995
impact of field activities of the PSAP              the regions
26. implenmentation of a baseline survey , to be repeated at   Oct./Nov. 1995
the eixl of the project, coverinig mitain agriculturat and
livestock production techniques, in particular on key themes
such as soil fertility, productivity improvement, post
harvest technologies
27. Evaluation of producer's reactions to the technical                Continuous
themes
28. Evaluation of the adoption rates of technical themes               Continuous
29. Critical review every 2 years of achievements made under  Jun 1997/99/01
the project
4. Adaptive Research                        * Inproving the relevance of extension and    30. Establishment of 3 interdisciplinary teams of                             Mar. 1995
research themiies                                    researchers and 4 regional adaptive research stations that
-perate jointly with IS, extension agents and producers
31. Initiation to diagnostic surveys of the                            Mar. 1995
ilnterdisciplinary teamns in collaboration with the TS and
I ITA
32. Establishment of trials and on-farm tests                          Annual
33. Establishment of on-station experiments on themes                  Annual
identified by the interdisciplinary  teams.
* Strengthening of interaction between              34. Organization of Monthly/bi-monthly technical reviews                Continuous
research, extension and farmers                     among TS, researchers fromn the interdisciplinary teanis and
-esearch stations
35. full participatiorn of iesearchers in the formulation of    Annual
work program of research stations
5. Support to Producers,                      Promote and strengthen professional               36. Appointiiient of a Group Support Specialist (SAG) at every   Continuous
associations                                orgarnizations of agricultural anid livestock   district( secteurs)
producers                                           37. Regular visit of the SAG to the producer associations to   Continuous
.______ _______ _______ ______   _______ _______ _______ __identify   training   needs   for   these   entities                                                   *



F38.  ornulation of training contracts between the project               Continuious
and NGOs/otlier private consultants for producer associations
6. Adiministrjtive and financial            * Rationialize the use of pr-oject resouices    39. Decentralization of the adninistrative and financial                       Continuous
muanagneirit ol itie poject hmanagelient of the pioject dt the regional level                                                                                                                                I
40. Annutal Audit of the projects accounts                               Annual                           k
41. Moniitoring of the implementation of the auditors'                   Semestriel
reconiencda t ions
42. Periodic T.A. to the accounting staff to carry out                   Continuous
project's manageiment procedures.



42                                                                                     Annex 5
Documents Contained in the Project File
I.      Themes de Vulgarisation et de Recherche Adaptive en Agriculture, Janvier 1995.
2.       Fiches de Fonctions du Personnel; Juillet 1994.
3        Modules de Formation - Recapitulatif, Janvier 1995.
4.       Lettre de Politique Sectorielle en Matiere de Vulgarisation et Appui aux Groupements de
Producteurs, Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation, le 6 F6vrier 1995.



)                        ~~~~~~~~~~C  H A  D
12151 I-TS MANAGED[ BY CIFIDR  DISTRICTS MANAGED BY D20P
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN OF THE AGRICULTURAL                                                  1951                            1995
AND LIVESTOCK SERVICES PROJECT                                                  1997                            1996
1997
.  ,                                           *U  RESEARCH TEAMS                  1998
N../ $7~                                *  EXPERIMENIAi FARMS
N..        ..,                                                                 -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
'\                                                                                                      - |   ~   >  ~  OTHER ROADS
-RIVERS
N                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEASONAL WATERCOURSES
i...-~             -~          TN..   N.                                                0  EiEECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
j  \   X Aozou-*     \..N..1                                    PREFECTURE CAPITALS
jN\./ X ~. /       ?                6 NATIONAL CAPITAL
'odo,                                        N \                           D>'7?-l' {>  -SUB-PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
\...~ '  -  ..    -   - PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
(    \,                                                             N            - ,   - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z.
f          iN..  'a/'
N   I G   E  R           i                               rIrli'1Ii   rFEIMTr5I    Tlr r  Tl
|                   ~~~~~~~~An GobL,Ro sFo,,org.rEow 
./L.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
IF           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
/                      ~             ~ ~  'o~I 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/   A  \ /  j   X   X                    X                    -:f  ,          _   )          f~A.doE~  \ 
VN.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
o>Z 3                                                                                                               U D A N
1  F   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Go.~~~ )Z~                      I.6 DA
(MAN
a      i   ER O O.N                                                                                          tIBYA        1i  REP OF -  
4 /-j                                            Att                                            ALEI                              E  /  YF --
othrrlelormolrolsho_n   J    t-  S   F CENTRAL  AFRICAN  REPUBLIC                                             CIIAD 
emui n h rl- /i                                             .                                                    A         .t 6       SU DA N
2h                        %ITGNGOR. Iru  '. 
o2r /uge                                Lo,re ro                                                                   .   
F-k  -'
N ICERIA 
c 116111 /ronteldose<Nnl    t       10 IW RDME R)
11111.,,111116,l,60,UO11  ) /    r               CENTRAL  AFRIC NARREPUBLC                                                  AIA    RU
611 lI1~~~~~~ 10111161                                                          N    -.  -                       SUDAN~~~~~~~~~~~7



