Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2685 CD
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural and Livestock Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 14, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2685 CD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CHAD (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter, dated February 6, 1995, from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the management and operation of the Borrower's agriculture and livestock 
sector (hereinafter called the Program), and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CFA Francs" and "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(b)
"MAE" means the Borrower's Ministere de l'Agriculture et de 
l'Environnement (the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment);
(c)
"MEH" means the Borrower's Ministere de l'Elevage et de l'Hydraulique 
(the Ministry of Livestock and Hydraulics); 
(d)
"CIRAD-CA (Chad)" means the Centre International pour la Recherche 
Agronomique et le Developpement - Cultures Annuelles (Cotton Research Institute), Chad 
regional office, a research institute established under the laws of the French 
Republic;
(e)
"DOP" means the Direction de l'Organisation Pastorale (Pastoral 
Organization Directorate) within MEH;
(f)
"DRTA" means the Direction de la Recherche et de la Technologie Agricoles 
(Directorate for Agriculture Research and Technologies) within MAE;
(g)
"IITA" means the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture, a 
research institute whose principal office is located in Nigeria;
(h)
"LRVZ" means the Laboratoire de Recherches Veterinaires et Zootechniques 
de Farcha (Laboratory for Veterinary and Zootechnical Research), a research institute 
established under the laws of the Borrower, and operating under the supervision of 
MEH;
(i)
"ONDR" means the Office National de Developpement Rural (National Rural 
Development Institute), a research institute established pursuant to the Borrower's 
Ordonnance No. 26, dated July 23, 1965, and operating under the supervision of MAE;
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the  Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
April 22, 1991 and May 9, 1991 and the letter agreement dated June 4, 1993, between 
the Borrower and the Association; and
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
17,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1,
commencing July 1, 2005 and ending January 1, 2035. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on January 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Page  4
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out, Parts A and C of the Project through ONDR and DOP, and Part B of the Project 
through DRTA and ONDR, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain in a commercial bank an agricultural and livestock 
services project account, to be managed by ONDR under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting 
expenditures under the Project;
(b)
in addition to the initial deposit referred to in Section 6.01(e) of this 
Agreement, deposit into said account, promptly before each fiscal quarter starting 
after the Effective Date, the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project 
required for such ensuing quarter, as estimated by the Borrower in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)
adopt, and thereafter implement, annual budgets which provide for an 
identifiable allocation of sufficient resources to implement the Project during such 
year, as estimated by the
Borrower in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
complete, not later than July 31, 1997, an institutional study, under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, regarding modalities for 
integrating public sector agriculture and livestock activities;
(b)
adopt, not later than December 31, 1997, an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, to implement the recommendations of such study; and
(c)
thereafter implement such action plan in a timely manner.
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause ONDR to, carry out, 
jointly with the Association, annual reviews during the fourth calendar quarter of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program under terms of reference 
Page  5
satisfactory to the Association, including a review of: (i) progress reports, annual 
work programs, and budgets for the next year, (ii) training provided under the 
Project, (iii) Project management, (iv) staffing levels and extension ratios, and (v) 
the status of Project monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ONDR to transmit to the Association, at least 30 
days prior to the review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Association, describing, inter alia, the status of the 
items listed in such paragraph.
(c)
Following each annual review, the Borrower and ONDR shall promptly 
prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association, to deal with deficiencies, if 
any, in Project and Program implementation identified during the review, and shall 
thereafter implement such action plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, and shall cause ONDR to carry 
out, jointly with the Association, during the fourth calendar quarters of 1997 and 
1999, reviews of the progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The reviews would cover, inter 
alia: (i) progress reports, annual work programs, and budgets for the next year, (ii) 
training provided under the Project, (iii) Project management, (iv) a beneficiary 
assessment, (v) an assessment of the institutional structure and management of ONDR, 
DOP and DRTA, (vi) the extent of adoption and diffusion of agricultural and livestock 
technologies, (vii) the results of the institutional study referred to in Section 
3.04(a) of this Agreement, and (viii) the status of Project monitoring indicators 
agreed upon with the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ONDR to transmit to the Association, at least 30 
days prior to each review described in paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Association, describing, inter alia, the status of the 
items listed in such paragraph and of Project and Program implementation generally.  
In this connection, the Borrower shall cause ONDR to employ independent auditors, 
satisfactory to the Association, to conduct financial and technical audits of the 
Project (beginning approximately 180 days prior to such review). Such audits shall be 
conducted under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including (i) a 
beneficiary assessment, (ii) an assessment of the institutional structure and 
management of ONDR, DOP and DRTA (in the case of the review to be conducted in 1997), 
and (iii) an impact evaluation study on the adoption and diffusion of agricultural and 
livestock technologies.
(c)
Based on such reviews, the Borrower and ONDR shall promptly prepare an 
action plan, acceptable to the Association, to deal with deficiencies, if any, in 
Project and Program implementation identified during the review, and shall thereafter 
implement such action plan.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
Page  6
agencies of the Borrower (including ONDR) responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ONDR to: 
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall and 
shall cause ONDR to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 26, dated July 23, 1965 (establishing ONDR) 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the operations or the financial condition of ONDR or its 
ability to carry out the Project;
(c)
the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONDR or for the suspension 
of its operations; and
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that ONDR will be able to
Page  7
assist in implementing the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely any event specified in paragraph (b) 
or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the
General Conditions:
(a)
ONDR shall: (i) have established an accounting system satisfactory to the 
Association, (ii) have fully implemented an action plan satisfactory to the 
Association to strengthen its financial management capacity, and (iii) have adopted a 
detailed Project procurement plan, satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower shall have contracted the services of a construction 
management agency, satisfactory to the Association, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, to implement extension and research-related 
construction activities under the Project;
(c)
ONDR shall have adopted a training program for the first year of the 
Project, satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
ONDR shall have entered into agreements, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, with DRTA, LRVZ, CIRAD-CA (Chad), and IITA for 
purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project; and
(e)
the Borrower shall have established the agricultural and livestock 
services project account referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and shall have 
deposited therein an initial amount in CFAF equivalent to $50,000.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Planning and Cooperation of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
BP 286
N'Djamena
Republic of Chad
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINPLAN
5329 KD
N'Djamena
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CHAD
By /s/ Mahamat Saleh Hamat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stephen Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 450,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(2) Vehicles,                 4,680,000         100% of foreign
    Motorcycles,                                expenditures and
    Equipment and                               90% of local
    Materials                                   expenditures
(3) Training                    570,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(4) Consultants'              1,090,000         100%
    Services
Page  9
(5) Incremental               8,510,000         90%
    Operating Costs
(6) Refunding of                690,000         Amount due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated               1,010,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                17,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means costs of (i) office 
supplies, (ii) equipment and transport (vehicle, motorcycles and other means of 
transportation) maintenance and
operation, and (iii) travel allowances incurred by ONDR, MAE, MEH and LRVZ in carrying 
out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and services 
provided by firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and services 
provided by individuals under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (i) to increase agricultural and livestock 
productivity in an environmentally sustainable manner, (ii) to raise farmers' incomes, 
and (iii) to improve the efficiency of agricultural and livestock extension and 
research activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services
 
1.
Increasing the delivery of extension services to farmers, and strengthening the 
quality of such services, through, inter alia, improved organization and management of 
extension activities, increased training of personnel, establishment of strengthened 
formalized links between extension and research activities, implementation of a mass 
media information campaign and the construction and rehabilitation of field 
facilities.
2.
Increasing access of women to extension services through, inter alia, the 
Page  10
targeting of services to women and strengthening the recruitment of female extension 
agents.
Part B:
Agricultural and Livestock Research Activities
 
Improving the effectiveness of research activities to identify and eliminate 
on-farm production constraints through, inter alia, the establishment and operation of 
research teams,
the increased and interlinked participation of producers, extension staff and research 
staff in research activities and the construction and rehabilitation of research 
facilities.
Part C:
Farm Producer Organizations
 
Strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of agricultural 
producer organizations to carry out collective agricultural and livestock activities 
through, inter alia,
training of producers in marketing, management and equipment repair.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the 
following additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.1(a) of this Section I of this 
Schedule, the Association's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension 
of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) 
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for 
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Chad may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Page  11
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for (i) vehicle operation estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 per contract or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$3,200,000, (ii) other goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $350,000, and (iii) works, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $650,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association
2.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $110,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and ONDR in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower and ONDR shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such 
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts 
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Association.
Page  12
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
establish a coordinating committee to oversee the implementation of the 
Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)
cause ONDR to report to this committee at least annually regarding 
Project implementation, and to submit for its approval proposed Project training, 
research and other programs and budgets planned for the succeeding year.
2.
The Borrower shall cause ONDR (a) to manage Project expenditures for all 
implementing agencies, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
(b) to implement the procurement plan referred to in Section 6.01(a)(iii) of this 
Agreement in a timely manner.
3.
In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall allocate 
management responsibility between DOP and ONDR, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, with the purpose
of attributing to ONDR responsibility for areas where agricultural activities 
predominate, and to DOP responsibility for areas where livestock activities 
predominate.
4.
In carrying out Part A of the Project:
 
(a)
the Borrower shall review at least every two years the geographic scope 
of the activities carried out under such Part and, in consultation with the 
Association, adjust as appropriate such scope, taking into account, inter alia, the 
actual implementation of such Part;
(b)
the Borrower shall through DOP, and shall cause ONDR to, implement the 
extension services activities under the "Training and Visit" system, with staffing 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower shall through DOP, and shall cause ONDR to, conduct 
extension activities in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall provide, inter alia, for the preparation of diagnostic surveys, 
information campaigns for beneficiaries, and orientation and training of assigned 
extension workers.
5.
In carrying out Part B of the Project:
 
(a)
the Borrower shall establish three research teams, one in the Soudanian 
zone, one in the western Sahelian zone, and one in the eastern Sahelian zone;
(b)
the Borrower shall cause each team (i) to operate under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, for 
extensive consultation with
beneficiaries and extension agents, (ii) to include an agronomist, a zoo technician 
and a socio-economist, each with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, and (iii) to function in close coordination with research institutions;
Page  13
(c)
the Borrower shall cause ONDR to exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations under the agreements referred to in Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement in 
such a way as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not permit ONDR to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of 
these agreements or any provision thereof; and
(d)
DRTA shall manage, in consultation with LRVZ, the research activities 
under this Part under terms of reference and with staffing satisfactory to the 
Association, which terms shall provide, inter alia, for the establishment of a 
research committee with representation from LRVZ, CIRAD-CA, DOP, ONDR and the central 
Sahelian zone research team.
6.
In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ through DOP, 
and shall cause ONDR to employ:
(a)
approximately 30 group promotion specialists, each under terms of 
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, to 
prepare training programs for farm producer organizations, to assist such 
organizations to register, and to otherwise support such organizations; and
(b)
non-governmental organizations and other technical assistance to provide 
training and other support to farm producers, under contracts satisfactory to the 
Association which shall require, inter alia, that beneficiaries contribute to the cost 
of training.
7.
The Borrower shall carry out the extension and research-related construction and 
rehabilitation activities through a construction management agency satisfactory to the 
Association,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
250,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to CFAF 125,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
[from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Page  14
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
Page  15
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
