Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
LAI 30f6- MtF
Report No. P-4954-ME
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 MILLION
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MAY 22, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
On April 10, 1989, the exchange rate in the controlled market
was US$1 = Mex$2,355.00; the free market exchange rate stood at
US$1   Mex$2,370.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AHMSA       - Altos Hornos de Mexico, S.A.
BOD         -  Board of Directors
CEPROFIS    -  Certificado de Promocion Fiscal
CEO         -  Chief Executive Officer
CFE         -  Comision Federal de Electricidad
CGF         -  Comision Intersecretarial Gasto-Financiamiento
CMC         -  Carbon y Minerales de Cohahila, S.A.
CONASUPO    -  Compania Nacional de Subsistencia Populares
FERRONALES  - Ferrocarriles Nacionales
FERTIMEX    -  Fertilizantes Mexicanos, S.A.
FSL         -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ISPL        -  Industrial Sector Policy Loan
NAFIN       - Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
OECP        -  Organismos y Empresas Controlados Presupuestalmente
PA          - Performance Agreement
Pacto       -  Pacto de Solidaridad Economica
PE          - Public Enterprise
PECE        -  Pacto de Estabilisacion y Crecimiento Economico
PEMEX       -  Petroleos Mexicanos
PERL        -  Public Enterprise Reform Loan
QR          -  Quantitative Restriction
SARH        - Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
SCT         - Ministry of Telecommunications and Transportation
SECOFI      - Ministry of Trade and Industry
SECOGEF     -  Controller General's Office
SEMIP       - Ministry of Energy, Mines and Public Industry
SHCP        - Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
SIDERMEX    -  Siderurgica Mexicana
SPP         - Ministry for Programming and Budgeting
TELMEX      -  Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V.
UCD         - Unidad de Convenios de Desempeno



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
TABLE OF CONITENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SULMMARY ........................................  i-ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY .        ...............................................  1
A.  Background          .........................................   1
B.  Macroeconomic Development in 1988               ................. .           4
C.  Macroeconomic Policies in 1989 ..................                             5
D.  Towards Renewed Growth .......................................   6
E.  External Debt and Creditworthiness  .............. .                          7
PART II - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ...........             ..................  7
A.  Evolution of the Sector ......................................  7
B.  Supervisory Institutions for Public Enterprises ............                  8
C.  Past Performance of Public Enterprises ...................... .               9
D.  Core Sector Issues ....................              ....................... 10
E.  Actions Taken to Date ..................              ...................... 11
F.  Past Bank Involvement ..................              ...................... 12
PART III - THE PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .... ... 13
A.  Objectives of the Program .................................... 13
B.  The Disengagement Program .................................... 14
C.  Measures to Improve Efficiency of Retained Enterprises ... 18
(i) Measures to Improve the Competitive Environment of PEs.. 19
(ii) Measures to Foster Managerial Autonomy and
Accountability ......................................... 21
(iii) Measures to Foster Financial Autonomy and
Accountability ......................................... 26
D.  Implementation of the Reform on Selected Enterprises ......... 28
E.  Technical Assistance Program .............         ..      .................. 28
PART IV - THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN ................................... 29
A.  The Proposed Loan          ....................     ........................ 29
B.  The Borrower and the Guarantor ............ ..              ................. 29
C.  Project Implementation           ..................    ..................... 29
D.  Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing ....... 30
E. Debt Reduction Support .....................                                 31
F.  Loan Effectiveness and Tranche Release Conditions   ... ........ 31
G.  Other Loan Conditions under a Plan of Action .......                .......... 33
H.  Monitoring and Reporting .................               .................... 34
I.  Project Benefits and Risks, and Social Impact ......               .......... 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO AND
GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES .......................... 37
A.  Bank Operations ............................... 37
B.  Government Development Objectives    ............................ 37
C. Bank Strategy .....................................,.r.39
D.  Agriculture         .................................... 40
E.  Trade ..................................... 40
F.  Industry          .....................................  41
G.  Infrastructure        .................................... 41
H.  Housing ..................................... 41
I.  Social Sectors and Environment   ............................... 41
J.  IFC Operations        ....................................  42
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF ................................ 42
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION ..................................... 43
ANNEXES
I. Mexico - Economic Indicators
1I. Mexico - Status of Bank Operations
III.  Mexico - Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
IV. Letter of Development Policy
V. Policy Matrix
VI. Institutional Responsibilities for Program Implementation
VII. Inventory Summary of Parastatals
VIII. Table VIII.1: Mexico - PE Investments in 1981-87
Table VIII.2: Cash Flow for all PEs Included in the
Federal Budget, Excluding PEMEX
Table VIII.3: CFE, CONASUPO, FERTIMEX, FERRONALES and
SICARTSA's Consolidated Cash Flow
IX. Alternative Disengagement Procedures
X. Technical Assistance



MEXICO
PUBLI3 ENTERPRISE REFORM
Loan and Program Summary
Borrowers         Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Beneficiary:      United Mexican States
Amounts           US$500 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayable in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Obiectives:       The proposed loan, which is part of a program of Bank
support to the Mexican Government's objectives of
stabilizing its economy and resuming growth, will assist
in the improvement of the efficiency of public
enterprises (PEs). It aims to reduce the heavy burden
they impose on the economy and, particularly, on the
national budget.
Description:      The program includes:  (i) a "disengagement* component to
continue with the sale, liquidation and merger of PEs;
and (ii) a program of reforms in the policy and
institutional environment for PEs to improve the
efficiency of the enterprises to be retained by the
Government.
Benefits
and Risk:        The above measures will improve the competitive
environment and will provide greater managerial and
financial autonomy and accountability to PEs. They will
increase market forces, decentralize decision making,
redefine the role of Government agencies, strengthen
managerial capabilities and incentives and improve the
allocation of resources. The main risks of the proposed
program relate to the possibility of further
deterioration in Mexico's public finances and macro-
economic environment--particularly inflation--which could
lead to the re-emergence of increasing operational
deficits and arrears of PEs, thus causing difficulties in
balancing the duration and rigor of the reforms. There
is also the risk that expected foreign finarcing would
not materialize, t-lis undermining the macroeconomic
objectives of stabilization and growth.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursement:    The loan would be disbursed against eligible imports in
tranches of US$250.0 million and US$249.0 million,
respectively. A US$1.0 million component would finance
technical assistance and studies to carry through the
initial effects of the reform. The first tranche would
be available for disbursement at the time of loan
effectiveness, upon fulfillment of specified conditions,
including substantial progress in obtaining adequate
financing for Mexico's requirement for 1989 and 1990, and
also the drafting of regulations to the PE Law, defining
the PE supervisory role of Government agencies, and the
role and composition of PEs' Boards of Directors, in a
manner consistent with providing parastaL"is with
managerial and financial autonomy under clear
accountability rules based on ex-post evaluation of
performance. The second tranche would be released after
November 30, 1989, upon fulfillment of specified
conditions, including continued consistency of the
macroeconomic policy framework with the public enterprise
reform program; progress in obtaining adequate financing
for Mexico's aggregate FY89190 and for its medium-term
requirements; progress in reducing Government transfers
to parastatals; progress in implementing the liquidation,
merger and sales program for 199 PEs; implementation of
Performance Agreement Plans; development of an action
plan to simplify, deregulate and make more flexible the
annual budgeting system for PEs; and issuance of
regulations to the 1986 PE Law. Disbursement of the
entire loan is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.
Retroactive
Financing:       US$100 million would be made available for retroactive
financing of expenditures incurred after February 15,
1989, a date four months prior to expected loan signing.
US$ million
Schedule of                     Bank Fiscal Years   PY90   FY91
Disbursements:
Annual                        499      1
Cumulative                    499    500
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.
Appraisal
Report:          This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.



REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL4 BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500 dILLION
TO NACIONAL FIRANCIERA, S.N.C. FOR PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN) with the guarantee of the
United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$500 million equivalent to
support a program of reform of public enterprises. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 5 -pears of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.       Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
growth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real growth
averaged 6.4Z, and inflation was in single digits throughout the period.
This era of fiscal conservatism came to an abrupt end in the early
seventies. Rapidly expanding government involvement in the economy pushed
up the rate of economic growth. However, increasing government expenaiture
was not matched by rising public sector revenues. At the same time a
decline in private savings incentives (real interest rates turned sharply
downwards) prevented a matching increase in private savings. As a result,
inflation tax and external debt became increasingly important sources of
finance. The period of single digit inflation ended in 1973, the real
exchange rate started to appreciatel and the accumulation of external debt
accelerated above the GNP growth rate beyond 1973.
3.       In 1976, Mexico experienced a serious, but comparatively brief
financial and economic crisis, triggering a major devaluation of the
Mexican peso and financial austerity measures. However, after major oil
discoveries were announced the following year, the stabilization program
was quickly terminated. In fact, the subsequent period was characterized
by both rapidly expanding government revenues and vastly increased
borrowing of the public sector. The Government's share in total value
added increased by almost one third, and in total investment from 33.51 in
1970-75 to substantially over 401 in later years. Not surprisingly, the
real exchange rate once again started to appreciate, eroding the gains of
the 1976 devaluation. This expansion was largely fueled from abroad:
Mexico's external debt increased from US$16 billion to US$86 billion
between 1975 and 1982.
4.       The situation changed dramatically in 1982 when rising world
interest rates and falling oil prices put an end to Mexico's increasingly
expansionary policies. The refusal of external creditors to roll over
11 The real exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods
relative to domestic goods. Appreciation means a decline in this
relative price.



Mexico's short term debt left no option but fiscal retrenchment. Mexico,
which had run non-interest current account deficits Ut each of the
preceding thirty years, suddenly needed to run surpluses on that account in
every following year. The ratio of external debt to GDP increased
substantiallr under the influence of rising interest rates and falling
growth rates. The gap between the real interest rates on external debt and
real GDP growth went from -6.32 in 1980-1981 to a full +10.52 in 1983.
Such a high difference meant that. even without a non-interest current
account deficit, the debt burden would increase rapidly, simply through the
compounding effect of interest on debt inherited from the past. In
addition, there were substantial capital losses on external debt due to the
necessary real exchange rate depreciation. Given the major decline in oil
revenues and rise in real interest obligations, the real depreciation of
the exchange rate was unavoidable, but it led to an increase in external
debt to GDP ratio of almost 25 percentage points during the period
1982-1987.
5.       The counterpart to the non-interest current account improvement
was a sustained fiscal adjustment effort that is probably unmatched in any
country. A primary fiscal deficit of 7.6Z of GDP before the 1982 crisis
was turned into a surplus of 4.92 in 1987 and an estimated 5.82 in 1988
(Annex I, Table 1). And this was achieved while revenues from oil exports
declined by more than 72 of GDP between 1983 and 1988, and GDP growth
declined dramatically. Non-interest Government expenditure was reduced
from the equivalent of 35.4Z of GDP in 1982 to about 22.6? in 1988. The
public enterprise divestiture program was successful in closing or selling
roughly 700 small and medium entities, out of a total of about 1200 in
1982. In addition, in the same period, Mexico has undertaken far reaching
structural reforms at an accelerating pace.
6.       An IMF supported stabilization program was launched in 1983,
during which the fiscal deficit was halved, international reserves
recovered, and inflation began to decline. However, in 1984 and 1985 there
was some fiscal expansion and monetary relaxation. Moreover, the
earthquake in late 1985 and a major terms of trade deterioration in 1986
due to falling oil prices worsened Mexico's prospects. In response, the
authorities adopted a deeper and growth-oriented stabilization program in
July 1986. In return for renewed monetary and fiscal austerity, this
program also called for a concerted financing effort on the part of
Mexico's creditors.
7.       The 1986 package included new elements of policy designed to
eliminate structural rigidities in the economy. The most significant
change was a major reorientation towards fuller integration with the world
economy. Exports of manufactures, spurred by a 422 real exchange rate
depreciation over thei July 1985-December 1987 period, have overtaken oil
exports and more than compensated for the US$7 billion oil revenue loss
experienced over the same time span. Since mid-1985, Mexico has undertaken
a fast and far-reaching liberalization of the trade regime, aimed at
expanding the tradeables sector, opening it to international competition
and encouraging efficiency in both exporting, and import-substitu*ion
activities. In 1986 Mexico acceded to the GATT. The trade liberalization



- 3 -
process was supported by Bank operations (Trade Policy I and II, and
Agricultural Sector I). While it will take some time before the full
impact develops, the initial results are promising, incentives have been
redirected and restructuring toward more efficient activity has begun. For
example, in agriculture, the policy reforms initiated since 1985, and
especially since October 1987, have substantially reduced direct and
indirect price discrimination against producers. Exchange rate policy has
become more favorable to all tradeable sectors. Import barriers have been
sharply reduced for major agricultural inputs such as machines, pesticides,
and other high technology inputs. Export restrictions on fruits and
vegetables, which represent 25Z of crop output, have been substantially
reduced, and most producer prices have been moved into a band of between
902 and 125Z of international prices.
8.       The key reforms in the trade regime included reductions in the
coverage of NTBs and tariffs.  The progress has been impressive.  Import
licensing coverage is now less than one-quarter of what it was in June
1985, official reference prices have been completely abolished, the maximum
tariff is now one-fifth and the average tariff about one-half of what they
were in June 1985. Progress has gone beyond the Government's original
schedule, GATT commitments, and the targets in the Trade Policy Loans I and
II and the Agricultural Sector Loan I.
9.       The ensuing fiscal retrenchment was unavoidable given Mexico's
sudden difficulty in accessing the international capital markets and the
adverse terms of trade shocks it experienced. As a byproduct, the severe
fiscal cutbacks have greatly increased the efficiency of many of the
remaining government operations. There is, for example, little doubt that
few, if any, of the many dubious large projects of the late seventies
remain in the public sector investment program. But, cutting back public
investments from almost 102 of GDP in 1982 to around 4.42 in 1988, clearly
has had its costs. Government investment has a role to play in areas that
heavily complement private investment and in the social sectors. Also
private investment has not made up for the decrease.
10.      With lower investment on the one hand, and restrictive demand
management on the other, real growth again stopped. There has been no real
growth between 1982 and 1987, and hence a severe decline in per capita
income (Annex I, Table 1). Also, inflation, rather than slowing down, in
fact accelerated towards the end of the period, partially in response to a
sharp nominal devaluation. This devaluation, however, had become necessary
because of the abrupt oil price decline in 1986. The subsequent de-facto
targeting of the real exchange rate, together with an increase in the
frequency of wage and cost adjustments, introduced an element of inherent
instability into the system. This latter became fully apparent towards the
end of 1987. The stock market plunge and less than perfect management of
private debt buy backs evolving from the 1987 debt rescheduling triggered a
run on the peso in October 1987. This resulted in reserve losses and
eventually a 372 devaluation, fueling inflation and expectations of further
exchange rate depreciations. The Government responded with the 'Economic
Solidarity Pact' (Pacto), a concerted effort to bring down inflation that
was running well into triple digits by end-1987.



- 4-
B. Macroeconomic Development in 1988
11.      The "Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto) was negotiated in December
1987 between Govprnment, labor, farming, and business representatives. The
program consisted of further tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, and
renewed structural reform efforts. Trade liberalization was accelerated,
credit subsidies substantially reduced, and the program of public
enterprise divestiture reinforced. These measures were supplemented by a
freeze of minimum wages, public sector prices and tariffs, and. what was a
corner stone of the "Pacto", freezing the nominal exchange rate against the
U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was originally intended for a couple of
months only, but it was extended at three month intervals through the end
of 1988.
12.      On almost every target that is under direct or indirect control of
the government, performance under the 'Pacto' has been exemplary and often
went beyond what was initially planned. Trade reform was accelerated,
partly because of the potential efficiency gains, partly because of its
restraining effect on price increases. The fiscal deficit was brought
closely in line with the low inflation targets embedded in the 'Pacto".
This effort was all the more noteworthy, given the negative budgetary
impact of further drop', in oil prices and increasingly high real interest
rates on foreign debt towards the end of the year.
13.      Moreover, this has been achieved in spite of high domestic real
interest rates. These have been at around 302 in real terms during most of
1988, and have crept up to a compounded real rate in excess of 402 towards
the end of the year. And, it must be stressed that real interest rates on
Government debt swung from a negative 32 in 1987. With the domestic debt
in 1988 equivalent to around 20X of GDP, such a turn around caused a
massive increase in real interest payments to service the domestic debt.
14.      The fiscal measures, backed up by the exchange rate freeze and an
array of formal and informal price controls, have had a dramatic success in
reducing the rate of inflation. Inflation figures for October 1988
indicate a monthly rate of 0.82 for the CPI and 1.4X for the WPI. In
November 1988, the WPI actually declined and the CPI inflation rate slowed
down further to 1.3Z. In December 1988, CPI inflation was 2.12,
substantial food price ii._reases notwithstanding but the WPI went up by
only 0.8Z. This is a tenfold reduction compared with the beginning of the
year; if the October-December 1988 rates could be sustained, Mexico's
inflation rate would be at an annualized rate of approximately 15Z. This
would clearly be a dramatic change with respect to the 1592 inflation rate
in 1987.
15.      The policy of a fixed Peso-Dollar rate came under increasing
pressure in 1988 as the year went by. The real exchange rate against the
US Dollar appreciated by 9.22 since January, and by 5.52 since March, the
first month with low inflation. The appreciation of the dollar between
March and September 1988 added to the pressure: on a trade weighted basis



the real exchange rate appreciated by almost 7.42 between March and August.
This should be set against a sharp real depreciation of 42Z on trade-
weighted basis between July 1985 and December 1987. July 1985 was the
month preceding a nominal devaluation of 17? itnd the beginning of a much
more aggressive exchange rate policy. However, falling oil prices and
rising international interest rates in the second half of 1988 added to
pressure on the real exchange rate.
16.      Doubts about the sustainability of the exchange rate may have been
behind the second striking feature of 1988, an extraordinary surge in
imports which increased by 48? in 1988. It seems that a substantial part
of the import boom was related to speculation against the exchange rate,
and, possibly, a gamble on future trade reform rollback.
17.      At the same time, non-oil exports increased by 162 in dollar terms
in 1988, (the 1987 over 1986 increase was 23.7Z). But because of the
falling revenues from oil, total exports grew by only 5? in nominal terms
in 1988 over 1987. In addition there was a strong increase in exports from
the "Maquiladoras," the import/export industries along the US border.
While separate export and import data for the 'maquila' sector are not yet
available for 1988, preliminary data indicates that value added increased
by 402 over 1987, adding a US$2.3 billion to the trade surplus in 1987 (as
opposed to US$1.6 billion last year). The increase in exports was due to
improved competitiveness since mid-85; as mentioned before, although the
exchange rate depreciated iAs real terms by 42? between July 1985 and
December 1987, some of the gains have been eroded since the beginning of
1988. Also, since 1985, Mexico's competitors have improved their
competitiveness by almost 10?.
18.      The net result was a deterioration in the current account of
US$6.8 billion dollars from 1987 to 1988 (a swing to a deficit of Us$2.9
billion in 1988 from a surplus of about US$3.9 billion in 1987).
C. Macroeconomic Policies in 1989
19.      In December 1988 the Mexican Government and the various sectors of
society agreed on a renewal of the 'Pacto" as the initial phase of economic
policies for 1989. This renewed Pacto now called Stabilization and Growth
Pact--PECE aims to consolidate price stability and contains specific
guidelines through the end of July 1989. Within this framework, public
sector prices and tariffs were adjusted, minimum wages were increased by
8?, and the peso is being depreciated daily according to a pre-announced
schedule of one peso a day. Under the PECE it is expected that inflation
will decline from 52? during 1988 to 202 during 1989. The fiscal measures
approved by Congress in the 1989 budget will contribute to a reduction of
the operational deficit. The fiscal stance, in conjunction with
appropriate monetary and exchange rate policies, should help bring about
the gradual recovery of investment and output, as well as lower inflation
and the strengthening of international reserves.
20.      The first quarter of 1989 indicates that the PECE is performing
very much like the Pacto, with the same successes and weaknesses.



-6-
Inflation, after accelerating to 2.1 and 2.42 -espectively in Decenber and
January, came down to 1.42 in February and 1.1 in March. Current rates,
if continued, are compatible with the Government's stated 202 year-end to
year-end target (one percent a month until December implies 172 December to
December inflation), an impressive reduction from the 1592 and 522
inflation rates in 1987 and 1988, respectively. Also, the nominal daily
devaluation of the Peso has led to a small real depreciation of the
exchange rate against Mexico's main trading partner, the USA. Current
exchange rate policy and inflation targets are broadly consistent with a
stable real e"change rate (a small real depreciation from December 1988 to
December 1989). Exchange rate policy will be monitored in the context of
the proposed IMF's EFF.
D. Towards Renewed Growth
21.      The predominant long term problem in Mexico is the continued low
growth rate of the economy. This is not only an issue of great social
concern, but also presents a major inefficiency and a threat to the success
of the short term stabilization program as well. An efficiency issue,
because it suggests that the rationalized incentive structure that is
beginning to emerge as a result of the ongoing reform program is not
sufficiently exploited; and threat to the stabilization effort because any
fiscal deficit is much harder to finance at low than at high growth rates.
Thus low growth rates increase the probability that recourse to reliance on
the inflation tax is imminent. For all these reasons restoration of growth
to the levels prevailing before the expansionary mid seventies is
imperative.
22.      It is clear, however, that because of the short-term problems,
fiscal efforts cannot be the main engine of growth. In the short run,
balance of payments considerations leave no option but exTort led growth.
Then however, supply bottlenecks will develop in time, with the consequent
need for additional investment. At present, investment is equivalent to
20.32 of GDP, public investment being at its lowest historical level. With
fiscal retrenchment necessary in the face of low inflation targets and the
likely negative impact of external shocks on public finance, private
investment will have to lead the way. This is also more in line with the
structural reforms currently underway in Mexico; these reforms seek to
reduce rather than increase the role of the public sector. This then sets
the stage for the three proposed adjustment operations: Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSL); Industrial Sector Policy Loan (ISPL) and Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL); iow to restore private sector based growth
within the constraints set by external creditworthiness. A starting point
would, therefore, have to be the design of a policy-financing package that
will provide the framework for the increase in private investment necessary
for resumed growth. The proposed operations are clearly an important
component of such a package.
23.      The need for a solution to Mexico's external debt problems is not
only essential for the recovery of growth, but would also contribute
significantly to the chances of success of the stabilization effort.
Clearly, cutting back Mexico's access to foreign capital markets would in



7-
fact reduce Mexico's creditworthiness because it would slow down GDP
growth. Sustained access to external capital markets is necessary to
provide room for the additional investment needed for renewed growth. But
fears of the consequences of a lack of access to capital markets, with its
implications for fiscal and exchange rate policy, are clearly among the
factors holding this investment back. In turn, the resulting sluggish
growth performance and public finance problems are among the factors
causing the lack of access to external capital markets to begin with, thus
closing the vicious circle.
24.      It is exactly in such a vicious circle situation that the Bank has
a major role to play. On the one hand, it can provide external funds as,
for instance, through the three proposed adjustment operations and help
secure other sources of financing, thus relaxing the external constraint
that is stifling growth. But, at the same time the Bank would, through the
policy package it supports, give a signal that the increased external funds
will indeed, trigger the increased investment necessary for growth. Thus,
Bank lending would play a major catalytic role in the process of breaking
out of the macroeconomic bind in which Mexico finds itself. This is the
main rationale for the three proposed adjustment operations: to act as a
catalyzing agent for a process of renewed growth, where Merico and all its
external creditors play an active participatory role.
S. External Debt anc Creditworthiness
25.      Mexico's gross external public and private debt increased by
nearly US$11 billion during 1983-88, and net debt by about US$9 billion.
The debt service ratio increased from 47.1S of exports of goods and non-
factor services in 1982 to 60.52 in 1988, mainly due to large repayments of
around US$3.5 billion of private sector debt and a decline in oil prices.
At the end of 1988, the Bank's share of Mexico's long-term debt was 8.2X,
and its share of Mexico's long-term debt service was 7.6Z. Mexico's share
in the Bank's total exposure was 8.7Z in 1988. This latter ratio is
expected to rise somewhat by the end of this decade because of Bank
expanded assistance program, but will remain below 10% of the Bank's total
portfolio. Provided that sound domestic economic policies continue to be
pursued, and that the external environment remains favorable for the
execution of these policies, Mexico is considered creditworthy for planned
Bank lending.
PART II - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Evolution of the Sector
26.      One of the causes of Mexico's economic and financial crisis since
the 1970s has been the large and weakly managed public sector, particularly
the public enterprises (PEs). At present, these enterprises contribute
about 12S of GDP, employ about one million people, and control the most
important branches of basic industry and infrastructure. However, as noted
below, PEs have persistently received substantial subsidies from the
Government, aggravating fiscal deficits.



8-
27.      The establishment of most public enterprises in Mexico occurred on
an ad hoc basis. During the 1970s, the sector grew rapidly without a clear
definition of the roles of the Government and the private sector: there
were 12 PEs in 1930, 491 in 1970, 845 in 1976, peaking at 1,155 in 1982. A
major source of growth was the acquisition by the Government of bankrupt
private firms to avoid their closure and maintain employment. Efficient
administration of PEs was hampered by the fact that prevalent PE
legislation at the time focused on processes and controls that relied
heavily on the administrative capacity of the Government. This legislation
had originally been developed to deal with Central Governraent operations,
investment and procurement (Education, Health, Housing, etc.) and was not
suited for industrial and commercial enterprises. Partly as a result of
ineffective management, and also because PE prices and tariffs were
generally below their economic opportunity costs, the deficit of the
largest PEs, as a percentage of the total Federal Government deficit, grew
to 38Z in 1976. Direct budgetary transfers to the largest PEs were above
5Z of GDP in 1982.
28.      Since 1982 the Government has implemented a major "disengagement*
program for most of the small and medium PEs and some of the larger ones
(in mining, air transportation and capital goods). Of the 706 companies
disengaged under the program, 32Z were sold, 112 merged, 53Z liquidated,
and 4Z transferred to local governments. By February 1989, this process
has left only 449 entities in the public sector, of which 94 are in the
industrial, energy and mining sectors. Excluding the oil and electricity
companies, which must remain with the Government as dictated by the
Mexican Constitution, the enterprises disengaged since 1982 in the
industrial, energy and mining sectors represent 77Z of the number of
enterprises, 66Z of labor, 41Z of sales, and 23Z of the asset value of the
initial universe of PEs in these sectors in 1982 (para 50).
B. Supervisory Institutions for Public Enterprises
29.      Since 1976, public enterprises have been under the control of
Sector Ministries, acting as sector coordinators. The Ministries of
Energy, Mines and Public Industry (SEMIP), Telecommunications and
Transportation (SCT) and Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH) control the
largest number of PEs. In addition to the Sector Ministries, the Ministry
for Programming and Budgeting (SPP) exercises authority and control over
the operating and investment budgets of the PEs. Further authority on
operational, credit, and financial matters is exercised by the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) and the Controller General's Office
(SECOGEF). Lastly, the Interministerial Committee for Expenses/Financing
'Comision Intersecretarial Gasto-Financiamiento' (CGF), created in 1985 to
resolve issues of public expenditures and funding, coordinates actions of
SPP, SHCP and SECOGEF on public enterprise matters of relevance to both the
budget and the macroeconomic stabilization program. CGF also approves
particularly complex PE sales. There is significant duplication of efforts
among these agencies, and some of them have gone far beyond their
originally stipulated functions becoming deeply involved in the day-to-day
management of public companies. This has caused disruptions which impede a
more effective management of PEs.



-9-
C. Past Performance of Publd Enterprises
30.      The economic and financial performance of PEs during the last
decade has not been satisfactory. Since 1982, the disengagement program
has helped, but other efforts have focused on immediate cost-containment
measures rather than on long-lasting efficiency improvement measures.
Though PEs' payroll and investment costs have dropped dramatically in real
terms since 1981, many enterprises are still facing low capacity
utilization, high operating costs, and financial losses. They continue to
receive large subsidies from the Government: total transfer of Government
funds to PEs amounted to approximately 2.8X and 2.1Z of GDP in 1987 and
1988, respectively. About 672 of these transfers have been to service PE
debt, 82 for new investments, and 252 to cover operating costs. Of the
latter, the largest component represents indirect subsidies to consumers,
because these transfers support PEs affected by Government controlled
prices generally set below opportunity cost (e.g., fertilizers, food
produe:ts and electricity). In addition to these direct transfers, the
Government has also assumed debt of PEs; its service is estimated at about
1.8t of GDP in 1987 and 1.3Z of GDP in 1988.
31.      The financial performance of PEs during the 19808 can be depicted
as follows. The large majority of small- and medium-sized PEs, which are
commercial in nature and operate in non-monopolistic markets, have remained
profitable throughout most of the decade; they have been prime candidates
for the PE-sales program. On the other hand, a handful of companies,
noticeably the larger ones with a mix of social and commercial objectives,
account for most of the parastatal sector crisis in Mexico. In fact, the
consolidated financial statements for these large enterprises--CFE (power),
CONASUPO (food and grain marketing), FERRONALES (railway), FERTIMEX
(fertilizer), and SICARTSA (steel)--show that during the first half of the
1980s, their cumulative value added (i.e., net sales revenues minus cash
production cost other than labor) was negative. Consequently, the
Government has financed labor costs, investment costs and debt service of
these five large PEs through both budgetary transfers and, since 1985, the
assumption of debt. During 1980 to 1985, budget transfers averaged
1.2 times the sales revenues generated by these PEs and were equivalent to
2.82 of GDP p.a. In addition, the PE-debt assumed by the Government
reduced real interest payments of these PEs by nearly two thirds between
1984 and 1987.
32.      Government's austerity and cost-containment efforts undertaken
between 1982 and 1987 gradually resulted in drastic cuts in labor and
investment costs of the above five large PEs. During this period, labor
costs dropped by 36X and investment costs by 402, in real terms. In spite
of the3e efforts, federal transfers to these five PEs in 1987 still
accounted for 902 of total direct budgetary transfers to PEs. This is
partly because product prices were kept artificially at low levels.
Furthermore, austerity measures failed to reduce direct non-labor operating
costs of these FEs. Consequently, their consolidated gross margin remained
negative. The evolution of Government transfers, labor costs, other
operating costs, and investments of these large PEs, and of the rest of the
parastatals under direct Government budgetary control, is detailed in
Table 2, Annex VIII, and summarized in the following graphs (in constant
1978 billion pesos):



- 10 -
0gavha of Selected PI C9sh Fovw
-ZonA T_MNMf PtD                    La  Code
~~~~~~~~~~~tto~~m  wu0 ao to pm  LSb02 Ot"S a*e 
10                                    ' S0a
60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
40
40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17  1970 100 198  18e2 108s 1ossa ttt 984 a10 tits82 gg8* 1086 198teg
20  d 8e
303    Se   are low      cr  iu us MA                      th mefosa?
of the public enterprise sector   Priin poiiesfori  a few la"rge my hv
beeiadeuae.N    arenPsLabor Opnlicin  social andctommrca
40
197   it   1080  100  10 82   K)8 1984  108   1088  108  ¶97   109  1980  198   Mg2 110  1984 1088  1088  1087
e  Convsoldated Coaerent for Cai, CIed structu, IfUVRetLn and  co o hCARa.
ser Conlol l dited the flew ter otbar PEs un*, budgeUp control, exlluding PMX.
perrset Onreso.ealto Publico de le r Oralaocu y Emes Cotrolade Prdevpuent%la.* in oerat. inform.
deo obierno. 100.
D. Core Sector Issues
33.      There are several core issues negatively affecting the performance
of the public enterprise sector. Pricing policies for a few large PEs have
been inadequate.  Large PEs have conflicting social and commercial
objectives. The overcentralized structure of budgeting and control has
severely limited the managerial and financial autonomy of PEs, leaving
little incentive for management to improve performance. Major budgeting,
personnel, salary, investment. procurement and even some operational
decisions of PEs are made at the ministerial level, often with a short-term
cost-containment focus. This leads to du~plication of effort, increased
administrative and transaction costs, and missed opportunities. As
indicated earlier, Government control agencies--SPP, SHCP, SECOGEF and the
sector Ministries--have gone far beyond their stipulated functions, and
either by legal decree or by simple extension of accepted practice, have
become ever more deeply involved not simply in the broad control, but in
the day-to-day maqnagement of PEs. This has undermined the decision-making
authority of PE management.



- 11 -
34.      Financial autonomy of PEs is further limited by the current
procedures under which the annual operational budgets of the large
enterprises are formulated at the ministerial level. The role of the PEs
in this budgeting process is most limited. These financial controls are
major restraints on management autonomy to adjust to shifting
macroeconomic, sectoral and market conditions. Furthermore, the budget for
investments is approved by the Government annually and for a single year.
with the result that projects cannot be implemented on time due to annual
fluctuations in the overall budget, often resulting in lack of adequate
financing for ongoing investments. In addition, many large capital
intensive investments have been made without consideration for
international competitiveness, with little intersectoral coordination.
35.      Another sectoral problem is that many PEs have unmanageable levels
of debt. This is due to excessively leveraged and poorly designed or
implemented projects, controls that set prices at levels below economic
costs, negative impact of real devaluations on foreign debt service, and
ineffective management. Debt service problems are further aggravated by
the prevailing high domestic real interest rates.
E. Actions Taken to Date
36.      During the last six years, the Government has taken action to
address some of the sectoral issues discussed above. The competitive
environment for industrial and commercial activities has been significantly
improved. The major policy reforms implemented since 1982 are as followss
(a) Import policy: Tariffs were reduced from a 0-100Z range in July 1985
to 0-20Z in December 1987, while import licenses and other non-tariff
barriers reduced from 92.22 of production in July 1985 to 23.2Z in
April 1988. Official reference prices, used as substitutes of quantitative
restrictions (QRs) on imports, have been completely phased out. (b) Export
policy: Export controls have been reduced from 578 tariff positions in
1980 to 242 in September 1988. There are 12 items subject to official
export reference prices and 61 items subject to export tariffs. QRs on
exports remain on a number of agricultural and petrochemical products.
(c) Price controls: The scope of price controls has been substantially
reduced. Price controls on private producers in 1983 included 141 generic
products under strict controls and 31 under flexible controls; by September
1986, only 21 products classified as wsuper, basic were under strict
controls and 122 were under flexible controls. Still, a significant number
of price controls on goods/services produced by large PEs have not been
eliminated over the period. (d) Tax and incentive policy: A tax reform
fully indexing the tax system to inflation is being gradually implemented
since 1987 and, as of January 1989, a revised corporate income tax system
is in place. Also, as part of the Economic Solidarity Pact (Pacto) and
subsequently, the Stabilization and Economic Growth Pact (PECE), both aimed
at controlling inflation, tax credits on industrial investment (CEPROFIS)
were temporarily suspended except for micro and small-scale enterprises on
a very limited scale. These two measures have increased the neutrality of
the industrial tax/incentive system, virtually eliminating tax-related
distortions on investment decisions and the incentive to leverage
companies' finances beyond realistic levels.



- 12 -
37.      In the area of reforms related more specifically to PEs, in 1986
the Government initiated a parastatal reform program, with the following
main objectives: (i) implement a disengagement program to adjust th.e size
and scope of the PE sector, selling, transferring to Regional Governments
or merging a large number of firms and liquidating non-viable ones;
(ii) provide greater enterprise autonomy; (iii) restructure physically,
financially and organizationally a number of enterprises; and (iv) adjust
prices and reduce Government subsidies. As part of the program, the
Government enacted in 1986 the "Law of Parastatal Entities (PE Law)," a
major and progressive step forward which created the legal conditions for a
more appropriate balance between PEs'autonomy and accountability and which
enabled the process of disengagement. However, the detailed interpretative
regulations to this Law, which are essential for its implementation, have
not yet been issued. Without these regulations, the PE Law is not
operative and PEs are still subject to the existing web of legal,
regulatory and administrative systems that deprive them of managerial and
financial autonomy and negate their accountability. Reform of PEs has also
been hindered by Mexico's tight economic situation, the inertia
characteristic of large public organizations, and the political sensitivity
of the issues. As a result of these constraints, substantive reform of the
public enterprise sector has been mainly confined to the disengagement
program.
38.      During the past six years, the Government alRo took restructuring
actions on a limited number of individual public enterprises, including
initiating the restructuring of SIDERMEX (steel), FERTIMEX (fertilizers),
CFE (power), AZUCARERA (sugar), FERRONALES (railways) and CONASUPO (markets
and distribution of agricultural products). Restructuring was carried out
within the framework of nConvenios de Rehabilitacion Financiera' ("edium-
term financial rehabilitation agreements) signed between the Government and
the enterprises. However, the "convenios", while providing major up-front
debt forgiveness, in most cases set target measures to improve efficiency
too far in the future or too vaguely to be of value. Furthermore, their
implementation has been hampered by budgetary regulations, with the result
that investments have been often implemented with inordinate delays due to
insufficient annual budgetary allocations and cost overruns.
F. Past Bank Involvement
39.      The Bank has participated in PE projects in Mexico for many years.
Loans have been made to several individual large PEs. Also, the Bank has
supported PE sector restructuring and development through recent lending
for steel, fertilizer and agriculture. While these operations have
included some significant institution-building objectives of a cross-
sectoral nature, they have proven insufficient to help the PE sector to
address important issues, including those pertaining to the competitive
environment, the role of Government agencies on PEs, and managerial and
financial autonomy and accountability for PEs. The proposed operation
focuses on these cross-sectoral issues.
40.      In 1985, the Bank undertook a major in-depth review of the Mexican
public sector investment program and process and identified a series of
institutional, procedural and policy issues for the investment process in
general and in the PE sector in particular. Subsequent reviews of the



- 13 -
fertilizer and steel sectors made extensive subsector specific reform
recommendations, leading to the aforementioned Bank loans for their
reshaping. The findings of the public sector investment review were
discussed with the Mexican authorities in early 1986, where the first
request for direct assistance to the PE sector as a whole was made. The
proposed operation builds on the experience gained from past parastatal
operations.
PART III - THE PROPOSED PUBLIC ENTERPRISE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
41.      Mexico's macroeconomic growth prospects are highly sensitive to
the availability of external finance. Adequate resource mobilization for
Mexico in 1989-94 will therefore be of crucial economic and political
importance. The success of sector adjustment programs to be supported
under the three proposed parallel Bank adjustment loans, i.e., the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSL), the Industrial Sector Policy Loan
(ISPL) and this proposed loan, hinges on Mexico's access to external
finance. Mexico has already initiated discussions with its principal
external creditors, including creditor nation governments, key bilateral
donors and commercial banks to design a financing package consisting of a
blend of debt reduction, restructuring and new money in adequate amounts to
alleviate net transfers abroad and meet the projected financing gap over
the medium term. A condition for loan effectiveness would be substantial
progress in obtaining adequate financing for Mexico's requirements for
1989/90. Continued substantial progress in obtaining financing for 1989/90
and for the medium term would be a condition for second tranche release.
42.      It may be difficult for Mexico to obtain commitments for financing
for a longer period, which would be needed to restore confidence and revive
investments, thus helping recover economic growth. However, the expected
presence of the IMF with a three-year program and the policy content of the
proposed three parallel adjustment operations should offer a measure of
comfort to Mexico's creditors as they consider providing a new financial
package in 1989, including some form of debt relief that can reduce net
transfers to external creditors from the current high level.
A. Obiectives of the Protram
43.      Much of the success of Mexico in stabilizing its economy and
resuming growth will depend on progress in public sector reform. The year
1989, the first one of the new Administration, calls for concerted actions
to offset the fiscal impact of recent increases in international interest
rates and to consolidate progress at the macro level to contain inflation.
In the public enterprise sector, this will require a substantial effort to
make the sector more efficient. For this purpose, the Government intends
to act on two fronts. First, to continue to reduce the size of the public
sector by further disengagement, particularly through PE sales. And
second, to place a major effort to improve efficiency and reduce budgetary
transfers to the remaining PEs. This will in turn require changes in their
policy, regulatory and institutional framework to enable them to operate on
a commercial basis in a competitive environment. The latter would place
PEs on a similar footing with private firms, eliminating preferential
treatment (e.g., subsidized input prices) and making subsidies and
transfers more explicit and transparent. The proposed operation, which is
largely based on in-depth analyses of five sectors with large PE presence



- 14 -
(steel, fertilizers, mining, capital goods, and basic petrochemicals) is
intended to support a time-phased program of PE reform (referred to as the
Program hereafter). The Program is defined in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy (Annex IV) and Policy Matrix (Annex V).
44.      In the area of further disengagement of PEs, the Program's key
elements, described in Section B below, are the following. First, the
Government has issued a policy statement enunciating its role in the
production of goods and services, clearly defining the criteria for public
sector participation under the concept of "priority areas'.   Second, the
PE-Sales Unit in the Ministry of Finance has been strengthened, the process
made more transparent, detailed privatization guidelines and the roles of
the various actors in the PE-sales process have been established, and the
level of past sales revenues and an assessment of results have been
published. And third, further liquidations and sales of a large number of
agreed upon parastatals, involving particularly complex economic,
financial, social, and political issues, will be implemented. A total of
199 PEs have been selected by the Government for inclusion in the PE-
disengagement program.
45.      Even after completion of the disengagement program, there will be
a number of companies that will remain under Government ownership. For
these PEs, improvements in efficiency can be achieved by inducing them to
operate on a commercial basis in a more competitive environment, with
sufficient managerial autonomy and accountability to allow them to seek
goals agreed upon with the Government under Performance Agreements, and
with sufficient financial autonomy and accountability to assure financial
discipline.   For this system to work, the Government will implement
reforms of the policy, institutional, and procedural framework under which
PEs operate, as described in Section C below.
46.      Success in the implementation of the above reforms is contingent
on the implementation of a macroeconomic adjustment program consistent with
the objectives of improved efficiency of PEs and a reduced size of the
public sector. In consequence, for second tranche release under the
proposed PERL, the Bank would be furnished with evidence satisfactory to it
that: (i) the Government's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent
with the reforms of PEs supported by the proposed loan; and (ii) the total
operational plus investment transfers to PEs remain within the limits
established in the FY89 budget, namely, a real reduction of 132 from FY88.
To support this effort, and further reduce transfers in 1990 and beyond, a
program of real price increases of goods and services produced by PEs with
the largest deficits will be implemented.
47.      The Mexican authorities agree on the urgency to improve the
efficiency of the PE sector and the need to implement a corrective Program.
The Program and implementation actions are described in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex IV) and in the Policy Matrix (Annex V).
Institutional responsibilities for program implementation are indicated in
paragraphs 88-89 and Annex VI. Program details are described below.
B. The Disengagement Program
48.      As noted earlier, as a result of Government commitment to the
program, from 1,155 public enterprises that existed in 1982, a total of 706



- 15 -
enterprises have been disengaged--that is, liquidated, sold or merged. Of
the 449 enterprises still under public ownership, the Government exercises
tighter control over the 22 largest ones, whose budgets are itemized in the
Federal Budget (Budget-Controlled enterprises--Organismos y Empresas
Controlados Presupuest-lmente tOECP)). The sectoral distribution of the
449 PEs that remain under Government ownership is as follows;
Table 1: CURRENT GOVERNMENT-OWNED ENTERPRISES.
Budget-Control led
PE* (OECP)
Tot l v l ue  Other PE*
of assets  not itemized   Total
(1987 Mex$  In the budget   PE*
Sector                               Number  tri lIl ion)    (number)   (number)
I. Utilities A Infrastructure         6      63.8         se         41
II. Industry, energy & mining          8      19.1         67         7S
III. Pemex (Oil and oil Products)       1      78.4          -          1
IV. Agriculture & fisheries            6       4.6         40         45
V. Financial institutions             -        -          128        128
VI. Social sector a other agencies     3       4.9        156        159
Total                            22      168.8        427        449
Source: Annex VII.
49.      The impressive contraction in the number of parastatals has
significantly reduced the burden on the Government of managing the sector.
It has also resulted in efficiency gains. In fact, a recent assessment of
the results of the Mexican privatization process, on the basis of financial
analyses of a sample of 63 transactions, shows improvements that should
yield greater efficiency. After disengagement, in the privatized
petrochemical companies: (i) investments increased up to 75Z of gross
sales revenues in a period of three years; (ii) management of working
capital improved significantly as shown by turn-over ratios;
(iii) technological processes were upgraded; and (iv) management was
streamlined and better remunerated. Sold companies in the auto parts
industry, having benefitted from an industry-wide process of liberalization
and restructuring, showed: (i) increasing integration with foreign
technological partners; (ii) increasing capacity utilization as a result of
a new export orientation; (iii) substantial supply and raw material cost
reductions; (iv) streamlining of managerial echelons; and (v) high
variability on employment, ranging from net reductions to increases by
nearly one third (when the PE-sale was followed up by significant
investment program undertaken by the new owners). In the other sectors,
the assessment showed that the enterprises undertook relatively large
investments for retrofitting and moderrization. From the sample, it was
found that 36Z of the companies were acquired by investors with down-stream
companies in the sector and 16Z were acquired by their minority private
partners. Twenty-five percent of the companies in the sample involved



- 16 -
foreign participation, mostly in auto patt;, and in eleven cases (18? of
the total), workers unions became partners in the new companies.
50.      The disengagement program has been of special importance in the
industrial, energy and mining sectors (under SEMIP), in which the number of
PEs was reduced from 398 to 90. Table 2 below provides a summary of the
impact of disengagement in SEHIP's holdings, excluding Pemex and CFE.
Table 2: SEMIP--IMPACT OF DISENGAGEMENT EXCLUDING PEMEX AND CFE
(Distribution Based on Figures as of October 1988)
(in percent)
No. of                                     Govern-
para-    Total   Total   Total  Total       ment
statals  assets  liabil.  sales  labor  transfers
A. PEs retained by
SEMIP (90 PEs)            22.6    76.6    66.2    59.3    33.6    80.2
B. Disengagement
Process (308 PEs)         77.4    23.4    33.8    40.7    66.4    19.8
Sale (155 PEs)            38.9    18.6    23.4    3;.9    47.2    16.5
Liquidation (116 PEs)    29.1      4.1      9.7     1.7    12.8      2.6
Other (37 PEs)             9.3     0.7      0.7     1.1      6.4     0.7
Total (398 PEs)       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Source:  Bank estimates based on data published in SEMIP,
Redimensionamiento del Sector Industrial Paraestatal, cuaderno de
divulgacion 72, 1988.
51.      The above table shows that, excluding PEMEX and CFE, SEMIP was
able to reduce its number of enterprises by 77Z. This reduction in the
number of PEs resulted in reductions in PE labor force by 66Z, reductions
in PE sales by 412, and reductions in total assets by 23Z. The smaller
reduction in the level of total assets highlights the fact that SEMIP still
retains the more capital-intensive, larger enterprises.
52.      PE Sale Revenues.  With regard to the proceeds from the sale of
enterprises, by October 1988, SHCP reported accumulated nominal gross sales
proceeds of Mex$796.3 billion (equivalent to about US$765 million) on 136
transactions. In the process, the Mexican Government assumed
Mex$98.6 billion in debt outstanding of the sold companies (about
US$49.7 million equivalent). In addition, three large operations (i.e.
Mexcobre--mining, Aeromexico--air transportation, and
Tereftalatos--petrochemicals) were concluded in late 1988, generating about
US$1.8 billion equivalent in gross revenues, with payments mostly made
through the purchase of dollar-denominated Mexican obligations, traded at
the time of the transactions at about one-half of face value.



17 -
53.      The Disengagement Process.  The disengagement process has evolved
from a loosely defined system, decentralized among Sector Ministries. to a
standardized procedure established by SPP and the CGF in April 1987. A
flow chart of the process is provided in Annex IX. Currently, the
selection of candidates for disengagement is made by the Sector Ministries
based on financial and legal company conditions, market structure and
prospects, previous bail-outs, level of employment and complexity of the
case. Based on this selection, the decision to proceed with the
disengagement is made by the CGF and is finally approved by the President
of the Republic. The handling of the sales of enterprises is assigned to
the PE-Sales Unit at the SHCP, which reports directly to the Minister of
Finance. The Unit then identifies and selects the financial advisors
(commercial banks) which will take charge of executing the sale transaction
(e.g., asset valuation, pricing, marketing, financing. negotiating). Once
the selection is completed, the Unit monitors the performance of the
financial advisors. The process so far has proceeded discreetly with a
minimum of Government infrastructure to administer and monitor the sales
effort. The strategy followed, namely to start with small and medium sized
PEs and entering '_hem into the sale process based on the relative
complexity of the case, has resulted in an impressive number of completed
transactions. Civil servants and over 12 agent commercial banks
participating in the process have accumulated knowledge that can be used in
subsequent, more complex transactions.
54.      Based on the recent experience of selling PEs, the Government
recognizes that the next stage of the program might be more difficult to
implement than the transactions completed so far for the following reasons:
(i) many of the PEs to be sold are of larger size, complexity and political
sensitivity; (ii) the decision to sell some larger parastatals will attract
considerably more public attention than in the past, making wide public
support for the program imperative for success; (iii) several of the
possible candidates for future sale are companies operating in non-
competitive markets, requiring sector-specific regulatory adjustments to
ensure that the companies will operate on a commercial basis in a
competitive environment; (iv) unlike most of the parastatals that have been
sold to date, many of the remaining PEs are likely to require extensive
organizational, financial and legal restructuring prior to initiating the
divestiture process; and (v) the larger transactions are likely to require
creative financial engineering in order to mobilize the necessary capital.
Given this situation, and following discussions with the Bank, the
Government has recently strengthened the PE-Sales Unit at SHCP and
allocated budgetary resources for administering and monitoring the PE-sales
program. In complex cases or large transactions, the Unit has the
authority to establish an ad hoc committee that would draw as needed on
other key Ministries that should be involved in the decision-making
process. Also, resources are available for it to call on international and
local specialized advice as needed. SECOGEF also strengthened its
functions related to the auditing of the PE-sale process. In order to make
the process more transparent, the PE-Sales Unit has recently issued clear
privatization guidelines, as well as preliminary results of transactions
realized until October 1988, including sales value and debt reductions.
With the adjustments in the disengagement process recently implemented, the
Unit should be able to continue the process in a satisfactory manner.



- 18 -
55.      The Future Disengazement Program.  As stated in its Letter of
Development Policy, further disengagements constitute one of the key
elements of the Government strategy to improve the efficiency of the PE
sector. To implement the next stage of the disengagement program, during
the preparation of this operation, the CGF requested all sectoral
ministries to submit for review by the economic cabinet/CGF: (i) a list of
new PEs to be disengaged, and (ii) the justification for the permanence of
the remaining PEs in the public sector. Based on such information, a
disengagement program consisting of 199 PEs has been established. Sixty
three of such PEs will be prepared for eventual sale, 124 will be
liquidated and 12 will be either merged or transferred to local
governments. Satisfactory progress in the implementation of this program
is a condition of second tranche release for the proposed operation.
56       Future Government Role in the Sector.  In order to avoid a
recurrence of the massive Government take-overs that happened in the 19608
and 1970s, and to clarify the relative roles of the private and public
sectors, the Government has enunciated its policy on the direct role that
it intends to play in the production of goods and services. In its
National Development Plan to be issued in the second-half of 1989, it will
state that the Government will limit its involvement to "strategic or
priority' sectors. "Strategic sectors are defined in the Mexican
Constitution and are reserved for State intervention; they include oil,
hydrocarbons, radioactive materials, electricity, basic petrochemicals,
mail, satellite telecommunications, and railways. The Constitution also
makes reference to "priority' areas, where state-ownership is allowed;
however, these priority areas are not defined in the Mexican legislation
and have been interpreted widely. Consequently, there is a need for a
definition of the government role in these areas. The National Development
Plan will reconfirm--that, in non-strategic areas, the Government will not
get involved in enterprises--or establish new parastatals or PE
subsidiaries, or acquire existing private sector companies--which are of a
commercial nature or are involved in the production of tradeable goods,
except in cases of significant market failures involving the production of
goods/services with major social welfare impact. In order to minimize the
risk of future backtracking in the process of reducing the size of the PE
sector, and to ensure that the decision to establish any new public
enterprise will receive serious scrutiny, the creation of PEs (or their
subsidiaries) and the acquisition of existing companies by Governnvnt
entities will be more strictly regulated. As a condition of second tranche
release, CGF will be empowered to give final recommendation on a case-by-
case basis on the creation of PEs (and subsidiaries) or the acquisition of
companies by Government agencies--consistent with the redefined 'priority'
concept.
C. Measures to Improve Efficiency of Retained Enterprises
57.      In addition to disengagement of PEs, the Government will
strengthen its program to improve the efficiency of those PEs that will
remain in the public sector. Following experience elsewhere, the
Government believes that a valid strategy to encourage PEs to improve their
efficiency is to force them to operate: (i) in a competitive environment
that subjects them to market forces; (ii) with sufficient managerial
autonomy and incentives to encourage them to seek agreed upon performance



- 19 _
goals and be rewarded (sanctioned) if the goals are (are not) achieved; and
(iii) with sufficient financial autonomy and accountability to enable them
to use the firm's resources effectively under a 'hard budget' scheme.
These three aspects of the system to encourage efficiency are discussed in
the remainder of this chapter.
(i) Measures to Improve the Competitive Environment of PEs
58.      In additLon to being exposed to the effects of industrial
deregulation, trade and financial sector reform, PEs operating in
tradeables should be subject to competition with other public and private
firms, and with imports. As noted in para 36 above, since 1982 the
Government has already undertaken major reforms to liberalize the economy
and increase its exposure to market forces. Additional major deregulation
measures affecting the industrial and financial sectors will be taken in
connection with the proposed ISPL and the FSL concurrently under
consideration by the Bank. However, there are some other market
imperfections and rigidities specific to PEs. The Government will
implement a program to address these market imperfections affecting the
operation of PEs, by carrying out the respective actions contained in
Part II of the Policy Matrix (Annex V), %nd summarized in the following
paragraphs.
59.      Despite signif4zant reduction in the number of products subject to
price controls prior to the introduction of the Pacto and PECE, prices on
tradeable products predominantly or exclusively controlled by PEs--for
example, steel and fertilizers--have not yet been liberalized. When the
Pact was implemented in January 1988, steel prices were roughly in line
with border prices; fertilizers produced by FERTIMEX, however, were priced
at about 60Z of international values. Not surprisingly, in 1987, Fertimex
accounted for about 13? of total Government transfers to controlled PEs.
CFE, CONASUPO, FERRONALES and SICARTSA (Sidermex) also generated
significant losses, accounting in 1987 for about 32?, 26?, 12Z and 6? of
total transfers to OECP, respectively. The pressing budgetary needs of the
Federal Government call for prompt corrective action to reduce losses in
these five enterprises which account for about 90Z of Government transfers
to PEs. Consequently, during negotiationa for this operation and in
connection with agreements under other Bank operations, the Government has
developed programs of price adjustments on goods and services produced by
these large five PEs, as follows: (i) For steel products, liberalize
prices starting on August 1, 1989; thereafter, approval of price levels
will be the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the PEs in the
sector. (ii) For fertilizer products produced by FERTIMEX, increase prices
by 18.8? in local currency terms on September 30, 1989; from 1990 onwards,
increase prices semiannually at a rate of 12.3? per annum in constant
dollar terms, at least until domestic prices reach international levels or
PERTIMEX has achieved financial self sufficiency; ammonia prices will be
adjusted accordingly and sulfur prices will be liberalized on September 30,
1989. (iii) For electric power, CFE rates will be increased by not less
than 9? in real terms in 1990 and 1991, and by about 10? in 1992, which
would allow CFE to achieve self-financing ratios of 61? in 1990, 63? in
1991, and 70? in 1992. (iv) For agricultural products marketed by
CONASUPO, in connection with the Agricultural Sector Loan, price and other
adjustments are being made, so that it is now fully expected that the



- 20 -
target of no more than US$85 million of Government operating transfers to
CONASUPO during 1989 (excluding transfer to support targeted food subsidy
programs for the poor) will be met. (v) For FERRONALES, though in 1989
tariffs will cover operating costs, ongoing discussions with Government aim
at increasing internal cash generation to allow FERRONALES to finance a
larger share of its ongoing investment program, thus reducing the need for
Government transfers. Even after tariff increases in FERRONALES, the
tariff structure may need to be adjusted further to reduce distortions
among different traffic types. To assess the magnitude of these
distortions and to provide a basis for pricing decisions beyond 1990, a
study of the economic cost of railway transportation would begin on
July 31, 1989.
60.      The above price increases will ensure that Government transfers to
PEs will continue to decline further from the levels achieved in 1988.
Given the relationship between pricing and Government transfers to PEs,
agreement was reached that, as a condition of second tranche release, the
Government will make progress satisfactory to the Bank in restricting
transfers to PEs to the reduced transfer levels for operations and
investments contained in the initial Federal Budget for FY89, which were
132 below FY88 levels in real terms. The above price adjustments are also
fully consistent with the Government's PE price policy as stated in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV), and which specifies its intention
to move towards market-determined prices for tradeable products in
competitive sectors, as soon as the macro-situation will permit it. For
PEs in noncompetitive or non-tradeable sectors, pricing policies will
strive to meet three basic objectives: (i) efficient allocation of
resources; (ii) financial self-sufficiency under efficient operations; and
(iii) affordability of basic services by the poorest segments of the
population. Accordingly, in PEs in non-competitive markets, prices will be
set to reflect the economic value of the goods or services produced (i.e.,
opportunity cost or long-run marginal costs, as appropriate).
61.      Greater competition in the sectors currently dominated by PEs will
be fostered by the redefinition of the role of the Government in direct
productive activities and the disengagement program under implementation.
By narrowing down the number of sectors where the Government will intervene
directly, barriers to entry into non-strategic" sectors by private firms
will be reduced. In mining, for example, a large number of PEs have been
sold to private investors. Moreover, some mining Government agencies are
expected to play a primary role in the promotion of future private sector
undertakings in the sector, both in exploration and mine development. The
reduced presence of PEs in the mining sector, as well as the need to foster
private investments, call for a reassessment of the role of Government
mining agencies. The Government has agreed to commence such a study of
mining sector agencies by October 31, 1989.
62.      Many of the largest PEs in Mexico are highly integrated
(vertically and horizontally) and operate in non-competitive markets. In
some cases, their actual structure responds to a 'natural monopoly,
rationale; in others, to strategic and political arguments. To enhance the
PEs' competitive environment in the railway monopoly, by July 31, 1989, the
Government will commence a study to assess to which extent new available
technology and contracting out possibilities would allow FERRONALES to
separate its core activities from those that could be provided by private
sector on a competitive basis.



- 21 -
63.      Competitive behavior can also be enhanced by appropriate
procurement legislation that does not give preference to public firms in
the supply of goods and services to other Government entities. In this
regard, a new public procurement law--the Ley de Adauisiciones v Prestacion
de Servicios Relacionados con Bienes Inmuebles--approved in January 1988,
permits PEs and the public sector to procure and import goods under
competitive procedures, subject only to the payment of customs duties. The
Regulations to the Law have not yet been issued, and current norms do not
make clear the treatment of foreign and local suppliers. The issuance of
these Regulations of the Procurement Law, which will make clear that there
should be no discrimination between local and foreign suppliers, is
condition for second tranche release for this operation.
64.      The proposed loan will finance a series of consultant studies to
improve the competitive environment for PEs. Details of these studies are
provided in the section on Technical Assistance Program (para 85).
(ii) Measures to Foster Managerial Autonomy and Accountability
65.      Despite the measures taken by Mexican authorities in the last few
years, at present public enterprises do not enjoy the degree of managerial
autonomy needed to improve efficiency nor do they have appropriate
accountability to the Government. The major Government objective so far
has been to ensure that public enterprises meet operating and investment
budget constraints consistent with the Fedoral Budget, with economic and
financial profitability receiving secondary consideration. In addition,
the autonomy of PE managers is severely constrained by Government control
measures which are excessive in number, overly detailed, ex-ante in nature
and applied by a variety of Government agencies. The existing
manageriallsupervisory system for public enterprises involves too many
actors, with excessively divided responsibilities. It is designed to
minimize Government budget deficits and is not conducive to increased
productivity and renewed growth. Recognizing the need to provide autonomy
to PEs, the Mexican legislature passed the Federal Law of Public
Enterprises, but the Law is not operational since its interpretive
regulations were never issued. These regulations are crucial, since the PE
Law is ambiguous on a number of key issues and it conflicts with previous
laws that were interventionist in nature. Therefore, the process of
granting greater autonomy to PE managers and BODs has not yet been carried
out. The proposed Program is a vehicle for achieving this goal. The
details of the agreed upon program are contained in Part III of the Policy
Matrix (Annex V).
66.      Redefinition of the Role of Government Agencies.  The first and
most urgent need is to redefine the roles of the Governmental agencies
involved in PE guidance, performance and evaluation, with the objective of
simplifying and rationalizing Government supervision, converting it from
ex-ante control of inputs and operations into an ex-post control of results
and performance. The roles of these agencies will be limited to policy
setting, long-range planning, appointment of Board of Directors, and
performance evaluation on an ex-post basis for PEs under Performance
Agreements (PA, as described below). The remaining powers of these
agencies will be transferred to the Boards of Directors (BODs) and
management of the PEs. These changes would provide a clear demarcation of



- 22 -
the roles and responsibilities of the Government, the BODs and Management
along their traditional roles of ownership for the Government, corporate
policy and strategy for the Board, and day-to-day operations for
Management. The BODs would begin to play their appropriate role as buffer
between the needs of the enterprise and the interest of the owner. The
roles of the Core Ministries will be reduced to the essence of their
original assignments.  Table 3 below provides a list of the main roles to
be exercised by the the seven key actors in the process.
Table-.: MAIN SWFEVISOY ROLES AC i'0DINM TO PE LA
Roleo of
Unidd de Con-
Role of          Role of          Role of                venioe do            Rote of               Role of
Role of SPP           SICP          Contraloris   Sector Ministry         Desespeno (LD)    bWard of Directors    PE Management
Approvs       - Se  ovorsl II      Exreie        - Wfine bu inoe        - Advice COF    - Appoint.            - CED roeomnde
overll          ce ilin  to        Comiearie       charters and           for it to          upon               appointment and
PEe'            banks on cred-     role and        propose  liquida-      recommend          reoammndati        dsmissol of
Budete and      Its to PEe,        defines         tion  and  ale,        appointmet        on of Co.           middl
their  ajor     and  mo feoo       external                               r diP.ioeals      2nd & Srd           menagars.
investments    enterpri-s          auditing        Sets over*l I          bv Sector          level
,peciic           rules           policy and stra-       Ministry, of      mnagere.          - Guides the PE
Aproves         credit limits.                     tegy for the           Chairmn of                            towards agreed
trnsfer                          - Attend*         sector as a whole.     UD * Board      - Defines             upon oa Is.
for           - Serves on          board                                  _asbers,          bylaw.
operational     Brd.               (voic  not   - Estimte  and                                                - Approve  eary
/ debt                             vote),          approves invest-       Coordinates      - Approve *tructures for
_ubsidies.    - Approve                            sent by PEe over       the               annual              2nd A Srd
Individual       - Isues           certain limit, and    "i"otiation        budget.            wevel, of
Serves on      request. for       reulator        submit. for final      of                                    mnagosent.
bord.           foreign loa.        ude-lin        approval of SPP.       perforo*nce     - Sets
forI                                   goas with         pricing.         -Decides on
- Through the PE     internal      - Asures consis-         PI  investment
Sales Office,      audit. of       t ncy of corporate                     - Approve             praters
administers        PEn and the     plans with           - M4onitors per-    investments         (location,
and monitors       auditing        sectora. medium-       foromnce on       and borrow-         product line,
the fE sale        comittee.       tere plans,            quarterly and      ings.              ec.).
procr.                                                    annual, *x-
-Serves on the          post basis.    - Monitors          -Proposes annual
= Approves                           Board.                                   perforance          budgt. on the
mc~~~~ooeoly                                lo~~~~ Isues annualI    closely      buas oaf
pricing                          - Appeint/dis i          reports           (bimonthly)         received
mejori ty of Board                       P provides         guidelines.
membr.            -Sets rewards/      discipline
-   r ~valuetownaltii vle-to                                Si
- Appoints It            "d an pf  r-   managent.ctl.,
d sisi CEO             foroxnce                             =prN"t wIth
Apfprove            laIbor.
fnancial
stxtent/
account. of
PE.
Approves
corporate
plan submit-
ted by
*nd forw-rda
It to Sector
Ministry.
Approves
dividend
payments.
Approve
mjor
procurements
67.            Sector ministries will concentrate their activities on the
priority task of defining policy for their area of activity as a whole;
i.e., for private as well as public sector actors in their area. They will
continue to play the role of identifying which PEs should be liquidated,
merged or put up for sale. They must review their PEs' corporate plans,
assure their consistency with sectoral policy and plans, and review
investment programs. Sector ministries will also serve on the BODs,
and--in accordance with the provisions of the PE Law--formally appoint and
dismiss the Chairman of the Board, the majority of Board members and the
CEO. Given the importance of the reform of the roles of Government
agencies in the public enterprise sector, for loan effectiveness, a



- 23 -
satisfactory draft of the regulations, redefining the roles of these
agencies, must be furnished to the Bank. Prior to second tranche release,
the regulations must be issued.
68.      The Performance Agreement Unit.  Under the proposed reform
program, a Performance Agreement Unit, attached to the CGF (Unidad de
Convenio de Desempeno--UCD), has been recently established to exercise the
Government ownership role. This is a small, non-executive, non-managerial
technical secretariat, initially composed of 5 experts. The UCD's primary
tasks will be to coordinate the negotiations with the PEs on ex ante annual
performance targets under the Performance Agreements, monitor the
achievements of the goals, and carry out a performance evaluation system to
provide rewards and penalties linked to performance. Its only other
responsibilities will be to advise CGF on recommendations to the sector
ministries (who maintain the formal power of appointment and dismissal) of
qualified candidates for the positions of Board heads and members, as well
as on dismissal of BOD members based on performance evaluation, and to
issue annual reports on the performance of management in companies using
the performance agreement system. The UCD has prepared an Action Plan to
develop and apply the Performance Agreement scheme. By second tranche
release, the unit will be fully operational and satisfac.ory progress will
have been made in the implementation of the Action Plan.
69.      Performance Agreements.  In order to ensure that increased
autonomy is not misused, and that the enterprises will act consistently
with the goals of the owner, there is a need to develop better
accountability processes for PEs. Except for external auditing, these
processes are presently limited. The proposed Performance Agreement system
will provide such a process. It will: (i) require PEs to strictly adhere
to well defined performance objectives and targets under annual performance
agreements; (ii) measure the performance of the PEs against these targets
in a transparent and systematic manner; and (iii) provide appropriate
monetary rewards and penalties to induce management to obtain the goals.
Based on this scheme, supervision can be converted from the current system
of ex-ante control cf operations to ex-post monitoring of results. With
appropriate incentives and penalties, this system can act as a 'market
surrogate" that would induce PE management to undertake long-lasting and
sustained searches for efficiency. The process of developing these
performance agreements would be as follows. The specialists of the UCD
review budget proposals prepared by the enterprise and previous enterprise
performance. On these bases and in consultation with the appropriate sector
ministry, agree with enterprise management and BODs on a set of performance
criteria (goals), and criteria values (indicators). The goals will
normally include the following: Short-term goals: financial gross margin,
profit and rate of financial profitability (where applicable, expressed in
economic as opposed to private profitability); quantified cost-containment
measures; quantified physical productivity achievements. Long-term goals:
research and development; improved corporate planning capacity; improved
maintenance capability; efficiency in implementing investment programs;
management and work force training plans and achievements. At the end of



- 24 -
the year, the levels of achievement in all areas are assessed, weighted and
a score of achievement is awarded to the PE. Management is monetarily
rewarded or sanctioned accordingly. If a low score is repeated over time,
management will be dismissed.
70.      There are many technical and administrative issues involved in the
performance agreement/evaluation process. These include determining the
short-term and long-term criteria values and, if appropriate, introducing
the concept of social profitability, all to ensure that management is being
graded on the basis of items within its control. Other issues include:
the extent to which criteria and values should be enterprise specific; the
method used to weigh the value of the various indicators; the determination
of the scale of scores to be awarded to PEs, and the nature of the rewards
and sanctions to be applied. Under this operation, all these elements
would be worked out, with the aid of technical assistance, by second
tranche release, and according to the agreed Plan of Action. Furthermore,
before second tranche release, the system would have been implemented in
the following agreed upon large enterprises: FERTIMEX, CMC, FERRONALES,
SICARTSA, and AHMSA (para 82).
71.      Boards of Directors.  Under the proposed program, the BODs of PEs
will assume many of the resporsibilities embodied earlier in a number of
Government agencies. To improve PE efficiency, the Government now realizes
that it is not sufficient to change sector organization and regulatory
systems. These are necessary but not sufficient conditions. A key condition
is to change the pattern of decision-making to place it in the hands of
those that can have the opportunity to respond quickly to a changing
environment and to take advantage of opportunity windows, that is, the BODs
and PE Management. The new regulations of the PE Law will establish the
decision-making power of the Board of Directors and Management as set in
Table 3 above. Regarding the composition of the Board of Directors, in
addition to representatives of SPP, SHCP and the relevant sector
coordinator, the Boards will contain persons of appropriate skills and
experience from the private sector, academia, and social sectors. The
regulations will state that BODs will contain a significant minority of
members from these non-governmental sectors. Furthermore, Board members
will receive monetary incentives for participation and Board performance
will be reviewed annually by the Sector Ministry, in collaboration with the
UCD. Non-performing BODs or individuals would be replaced. These elements
of the program will be incorporated in the proposed regulations of the Law
to be issued by second tranche release.
72.      In order to assure that BODs perform their duties effectively, in
the future, Board members would be given the time and the resources to
prepare adequately for their assignments. The Law regulations will set the
criteria for the purpose of determining the maximum number of BODs in which
a Board member may serve, taking into account the complexity, size and
other relevant parameters of the PEs. Board membership must become more
than attending a meeting and ensuring that one's ministry's interests are
not being threatened. For loan effectiveness, a satisfactory draft of the
regulations to the PE Law of 1986, including a clear definition of the role
and compositio: of the PEs' Boards of Directors and of the role of
technical committees of BODs (see below), must be furnished to the Bank.
Issuance of the regulation would be a second tranche release condition.



- 25 -
73.      PE Management.  The enhanced roles of PE Management are described
in Table 3 above. Such responsibilities should enable PE Management to act
as needed to operate the enterprises efficiently. In order to enhance
further the flexibility of decision-making process of PEs, the role of
technical committees of the BODs will be emphasized. These committees will
meet with greater frequency than Board meetings, upon management request,
in order to decide on key enterprise issues that require Board approval.
This arrangement will allow Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) to propose and
implement actions in a timely manner over key financial, technical and
personnel aspects of their firms.
74.      Training.  Managers must have up-to-date knowledge and skills to
allow them to use productively their newly found autonomy. Thus, under the
proposed operation, short-term courses covering the new legal/regulatory
structure and its enlargement of managerial autonomy, performance
evaluation and management information system (MIS), will be arranged for
managers, starting in selected key PEs. Short-term training on computer
applications, budgeting techniques, and assetiliability management will
also be made available to managers. This training could be combined with
twinning' arrangements (sustained assistance from a successful firm in an
industrialized country to a sister firm in an LDC), especially for some of
the most important poor performers. Management contracts stressing
training features, and providing incentives for such, are another way to
attack simultaneously long and short-term constraints: training Mexican
managers and putting in place at once a management team able to stop the
fiscal drain. The proposed reform package also provides government
representatives sitting on the PE Boards with increased responsibilities.
Therefore, short training seminars on the functions and powers of directors
will be organized for Board appointees, as deemed necessary, by the
respective Sector Miristry. UCD officials will receive training in how to
devise a clear set of objectives for the performance agreements. UCD staff
will ensure that management is being judged on the basis of factors within
their control. They must be trained in how to assess results, and the
intricacies of the assignment of rewards and penalties (the allocation of
rewards and penalties will be done through the CGF, on the recommendation
of the UCD).
75.      Reporting. Financial Management and Accounting Systems.  During
the last few years, substantial improvements have been made in the
development of accounting and auditing systems for PEs. These systems are
presented in the Government's 'Catalogo de Formatos e Instructivos del
Sector Paraestatal". However, implementation among PEs is uneven.
Consequently, by August 31, 1989, SPP will provide evidence about its
implementation of a program to promote the knowledge and proper use of the
"Catalogo" to ensure the use of the most reliable and timely financial and
accounting information available. SPP will also analyze the adequacy of
the accounting and audited information of the PEs to be subject to
Performance Agreements, to ensure that they will be able to provide
reliable and timely information for the negotiation and evaluation of
performance agreements. For other information pertaining PEs, SPP has
developed an integrated and centralized information system ('Sistema
Integral de Informacion"), to collect monthly, quarterly, semiannual and
annual PE data. To ensure that this data will be consistent with the
requirements under Performance Agreements, by September 30, 1989, based on
meetings with CGF, SECOGEF, SHCP, UCD, Sector Ministries and PEs'



- 26 -
representatives, SPP will issue a revised PEs integrated information
system, improving the reliability and timeliness of the information that
will be used by UCD, while minimizing the duplication of information flows.
Finally, as required by the PE Law, starting on May 1989, Auditing
Committees will be responsible for the analysis of issues, raised by the
external audit reports, on PE finances. Auditing Committee members will
include SECOGEF and SHCP representatives, the General Director of the
Sector Ministry and the PE internal auditer and accountants.
76.      For those PEs in which the Performance Agreement system will be
first instituted, management's enhanced role will be supported by upgraded
information systems, as needed. Areas to be improved include corporate
planning (building on the experience of the 'convenios de rehabilitacion"),
budget and asset/liability management, automation and computerization. By
August 31, 1989, Sector Ministries will issue TOR for consultants to
identify, on selected PEs, areas to be improved, defining action plans. To
assist the enterprises and the various agencies of the Mexican Government
to carry out this extensive package of reforms, technical assistance will
be required in several areas under the proposed loan, as detailed in
para 85 and Annex X.
(iii) Measures to Foster Financial Autonomy and Accountability
77.      The current budgeting system for public enterprises gives PE
managers little financial autonomy to operate efficiently. In fact, the
control by Government agencies over the implementation of the approved
budget is much too rigid, as the Government exercises excessive power over
details in PEs' cost and investment items in order to reduce the impact on
the Federal Government budget. This has reduced the ability of managers to
make timely decisions they are best equipped to take, as departures from
the budget during the year require various levels of Government approvals,
slowing down the decision-making process. Under the proposed reform
program, by September 30, 1989, SPP will furnish to the Bank an Action
Plan, based on a review of existing budgetary norms and regulations, to
simplify, deregulate and make more flexible the budgetary process and its
implementation. Accordingly, the Government will gradually change the
budgeting process and implementation, first, for the enterprises selected
in this operation and, subsequently, for most PEs. Also, and as indicated
in Table 3 above, only PE large investments will be approved by SPP,
providing flexibility for management to undertake maintenance,
debottlenecking and retrofitting investment projects which are below a
limit to be specified, subject to final approval by the BODs and in case
the PEs have sufficient financing for such projects.
78.      In order to ensure consistency of PE finances with the Federal
budget, under the Performance Agreement system the UCD would agree with the
PEs on specific levels of dividends or transfers/subsidies to or from the
Federal Budget. PE managers will be given the autonomy to take measures to
achieve these critical fiscal goals and would be rewarded or sanctioned
accordingly. Together with the increased financial autonomy, financial
accountability rules will be enforced. PEs will be expected to operate
under 'Hard Budgets": if the enterprises do not meet their financial
targets, the Government will not bail them out through additional
transfers. Consistently with macroeconomic targets, PEs' finances are
expected to improve significantly, resulting in lower aggregate budgetary



- 27 -
transfers along the lines referred to in para 60 above. The reduction in
transfers to PEs would be accompanied by the implementation of the program
for the liberalization of controlled prices or their adjustment to economic
levels as discussed in para 59 above, as well as greater flexibility to cut
operating costs, in a framework that will permit PEs to reach a greater
degree of self-sufficiency.
79.     The above changes will be implemented in accordance with the 1986
Law of Parastatals--which foresees the necessary actions for increasing PE
autonomy--once the Regulations of the Law are issued by second tranche
release (para 67).
80.      In order to enhance financial autonomy and accountability, the
processes for investment decisions need to be upgraded, both at the
Government and at the PE levels. The Government has recently upgraded
budgetary procedures and payment systems for externally-funded investments
by public enterprises. It will monitor implementation of this system, and
exchange views with the Bank before August 31, 1989, to implement any
further measures needed to improve project implementation and disbursement
performance. The Government's review and approval processes for new
investments is, however, deficient. In order to strengthen and expedite
the screening of PE and other public sector investments, and in connection
with recommendations under the FSL, the Government would submit to the Bank
by September 1, 1989, the Terms-of-Reference for the preparation of
guidelines for economic and financial project evaluation. Furthermore, in
order to avoid the current investment delays due to lack of investment
planning, SPP will establish a task force to study and develop a multi-year
investment budReting Drocess for those projects that would require
Government financing. This new process would establish criteria to
separate projects into core' priority investments which would be protected
from fluctuations in budgetary availabilities, and "secondary* projects
which would be subject to delays. In connection with this operation and
the FSL, SPP would submit the TOR for the study to the Bank by September 1,
1989, commence the above mentioned studies by October 15, 1989, and furnish
to the Bank a satisfactory plan of action to implement the study's
recommendation by April 15, 1990. To guide Pls in the preparation of
corporate plans consistent with sectorial and national development
priorities, prior to second tranche release, SPP will submit evidence that
satisfactory guidelines for the elaboration of sector plans and corporate
programs have been included in the National Development Plan to be issued
in mid-1989.
81.      As PEs become financially self-sufficient and creditworthy through
higher product prices and lower operating costs, they should be able to
borrow from commercial banks on their own creditworthiness, without
implicit or explicit Government guarantees. Recent far-reaching financial
sector reforms supported by the Bank through the parallel FSL will
facilitate this process. In the Policy Matrix for this operation (Annex V)
the Government has stated its policy to disallow Government credit
subsidies, guarantees or any other preferential treatment for PEs vis-a-vis
the banking system. Banks will evaluate loan requests based on the
creditworthiness of the PE and the commercial viability of the loan
request. The Government will set individual borrowing limits for PEs only
in connection with individual corporate plans and annual budgets of the
PEs. These measures would ensure that commercial banks will be able to



- 28 -
exercise discipline in the sector, especially if banks in turn are
supervised more strictly, as discussed with the Government and proposed
under the PSL. The Government has already adopted many of the measures
under the FSL, including reforms that liberalize all commercial bank
interest rates and effectively reduce forced lending schemes to the
Government. The emergence of a banking system that operates commercially,
accompanied by improved prudential regulations and supervision, will help
to improve financial autonomy and accountability for PEs.
D. Implementation of the Reform on Selected Enterprises
82.      Under the proposed loan, the Government will implement reforms in
the policy, institutional and procedural framework under which PEs operate,
as discussed throughout Part III of the report. These changes will benefit
public enterprises across all sectors. At the enterprise level, the
proposed Program is far reaching and complex. Its implementation must be
phased in a manner that maximizes its probability of success while, at the
same time, incorporating a significant share of the larger PEs.
Accordingly, agreement was reached with the Government that the Performance
Agreement and Monitoring scheme will be implemented in the following five
large PEs: FERTIMEX, the fertilizer complex which includes 40 operating
plants, 5 plants under construction, as well as 98 distribution centers;
CMC, a large ircn and coal mining operation; FERRONALES, the national
railway company; and SICARTSA and AHMSA, the two largest steel companies
in Mexico, accounting for significantly more than 50Z of the national raw
steel installed capacity. These companies account for more than one-half
of the total budgetary transfers to, and fixed asset value of all PEs under
direct budget control, excluding CFE and PEMEX. Prior to second tranche
release, the selected PEs will be fully operating under the Performance
Agreement contracts (para 70).
83.      Regarding the implementation of the disengagement program, as
noted earlier, by second tranche release, the Government should have made
progress satisfactory to the Bank in its implementation of the
disengagement program consisting in 199 enterprises (para 55).
84.      In addition to the reforms aimed at improving the competitive
environment and managerial and financial autonomylaccountability, in order
to assure the success of the reform program, some of the above enterprises
will require restructuring of their operations and financial situations.
Concrete measures for these enterprises are being discussed with the
Government or being implemented in connection with other Bank operations.
Some additional measures, agreed with the Government during the PERL
negotiations are described in the Plan of Action in para 100 below.
E. Technical Assistance Program
85.      Technical assistance (TA) to be financed under the Loan, will
support overall implementation of the proposed Program. CGF will
coordinate the TA program. Cost estimates and the implementation schedule
of the proposed TA is detailed in Annex X. The qualifications and
experience of the consultants will be satisfactory to the Bank. The



- 29 -
implementation of key activities under the TA program is a condition for
second tranche release under the time-bound Plan of Action (para 99,viii).
The TA includes the following:
(a) Studies. Consultants will assist the Government in the following
studies: (i) economic pricing in FERRONALES (para 59); (ii) role
of mining sector agencies (para 61); and (iii) private sector
development in PE-dominated areas (para 62).
(b) Specialized Support. This includes consultant services to support
four government agencies (SHCP, SPP, SEMIP, CGF) in the following
areast Performance Agreement development (para 70), improvement
of existing financial management, accounting and reporting systems
in selected PEs (para 76), development of a simplified integrated
PE information and monitoring system (para 75), and preparation of
PAs for the five selected PEs (para 70).
(c) Training. A training program will be designed to support:
(i) the staff of the UCD; and (ii) PEs' senior management and BOD
members in their new functions under the PA system for the PEs
under the Program (para 74).
PART IV - THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
A. The Proposed Loan
86.      The proposed Bank loan of US$500 million equivalent would support
the Government's Reform Program for PEs. It would support the efforts
being undertaken by the Government to improve the efficiency of the sector
through disengagement, improvement in the competitive environment for PEs,
and greater managerial and financial autonomy and accountability. The
Closing Date of the loan would be June 30, 1991. Negotiations for the
proposed program were held in Mexico City between March 13 to 17, 1989, and
April 24 to 28, 1989 with the Government delegation led by Lic. Enrique
Vilatela, Director General, SCHP.
B. The Borrower and the Guarantor
87.      The Government's development bank, Nacional Financiera S.N.C
(NAPIN), will be the borrower of the Bank loan, in line with its function
as Mexico's official financial agent of the Government. The loan would be
guaranteed by the Mexican Government. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, NAEIN would submit subsidiary agreements to the Bank for
passing on the proceeds of the proposed loan to the Government, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Proiect Implementation
88.      The SHCP will be responsible for overall project implementation
and coordination. Specific project implementation arrangements and
responsibilities are detailed below and summarized in Annex VI.
89.      CGF will be responsible for the establishment and operation of
UDC; the development of a revised integrated PE information and monitoring
system; the coordination of the disengagement program; and the selection of



- 30 -
PEs for the PA scheme. SHCP will be responsible for the PE-sales program
(i.e., through its PE-sales unit); the implementation of the PE real price
adjustment program; the study to foster private sector presence in areas
currently dominated by PEs; and the study to assess the economic cost of
railway transport in Mexico. SPP will monitor the budget transfers to PEs;
promote the use of the accounting and auditing rules included in the
Catalogo de Formatos e Instructivos del Sector Paraestatal; develop an
action plan to simplify, deregulate, and make more flexible the PEs' budget
process and practices; undertake a study on multi-year investment
evaluation and programming; prepare the revised regulations to the
Procurement Law; and issue the guidelines for the preparation of sectoral
and PEs' corporate programs. SECOGEF will issue the regulations to the PE
Law and the Procurement Law. SEMIP will undertake the study on the role of
Government agencies in the mining sector and coordinate studies and follow-
up actions to upgrade the management and information system in selected
PEs.
D. Disbursement. Procurement, Administration and Auditing
90.      The proposed loan would be released in two tranches, of
US$250 million and US$249 million, respectively. US$1 million would be
allocated for technical assistance and to finance studies necessary to
identify further areas of liberalization and deregulation. The first
tranche would become available upon loan effectiveness, and the second
tranche after November 30, 1989 and upon the fulfillment of specific
conditions for tranche release. The closing date of the proposed PERL
would be June 30, 1991.
91.      The loan proceeds would be re-lent to the Government on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to finance 100? of the foreign
exchange cost of imported goods required during the execution of the
Program, except for those contained in a negative list (goods subject to
quantitative import restrictions, goods financed from other official
multilateral or bilateral sources, goods intended for luxury consumption or
goods imported for military or paramilitary purposes). Taking into account
the unprecedented growth in imports in 1988, retroactive financing is
recommended up to an amount of US$100 million for eligible import
expenditures incurred after February 15, 1989, the date four months prior
to the expected signing of the proposed loan. Disbursements under the
technical assistance component would finance 100X of the expenditures of
consultants, and 100? of the cost of equipment and goods required for
implementation of the agreed technical assistance programs.
92.      The Borrower will be responsible for maintaining loan accounts and
for the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications.
Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure from Banco de Mexico detailing individual import
transactions in each relevant period, and their eligibility under the
proposed loan. Applications for withdrawal will be consolidated and
submitted in amounts of not less than US$5 million.
93.      Imports to be financed by the Bank up to US$5 million equivalent
would be purchased under contracts awarded on the basis of the commercial
procurement practices of the importer in the private sector, and standard



- 31 -
Government procedures in the public sector. The Bank has reviewed the
Government's standard procurement procedures and found them satisfactory.
Single purchases of goods costing in excess of US$5 million would be
procured through international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Goods under the technical assistance program would be procured
through shopping for items costing up to US$50,C0O equivalent, and local
competitive bidding above the threshold for contracts up to a value of
US$300,000. Higher contract values are not expected.
94.      Audits of the supporting docLmentation for statements of
expenditure used for disbursements will be carried out annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
E. Debt Reduction Support
95.      As explained in the President's Report of the proposed FSL Loan,
it may be difficult to mobilize new money in an amount sufficient to cover
diexico's financial gap over the medium term. However, any financing short
of a multi-year commitment would compound macroeconomic problems and would
lead to continued uncertainty about Mexico's public finances and tax and
exchange rate policies. Therefore, the Government intends to include some
form of debt reduction in its next financing package, which would be
expected to restore confidence and thus spur investment and help recover
growth.
96.      Since without specific Bank assistance it may be difficult for the
Government to put in place effective debt reduction schemes, the Bank has
agreed that, subject to its agreement, up to US$125 million equivalent
under the second tranche of the proposed loan could be used for the
implementation of debt reduction plan which, in the Bank's judgment, shall
meet the requirments of the Bank's support of debt reduction programs.
P. Loan Effectiveness and Tranche Release Conditions.
97.      A series of specific conditions in the area of public sector
reform have been met since appraisal, as follows:
(a) Agreement was reached on the aggregate operational plus investment
transfers to PEs in 1989, which are significantly below the
already reduced level of FY88, on the order of 13Z in real terms.
Such level of transfers are contained in the approved FY89 Federal
Budget (para 60).
(b) In connection with PERL and other Bank operations in Mexico, the
Government prepared a price adjustment plan for goods and services
produced by the five PEs which receive the largest federal
transfers (para 59). Also, a statement of the Government's price
policy for PEs has been included in the Letter of Development
Policy (Annex IV).
(c) Five of the largest PEs have been selected for the implementation
of the PA plan (para 82), and 199 PEs have been selected for the
disengagement program (para 83).



- 32 -
(d)  The Government has stated its role and policy in the productiop of
goods and services, defining clearly the concept of "priority'
area for public sector participation, and agreed on the inclusion
of such definition in the National Development Plan to be issued
in mid-1989 (para 56).
(e)  The PE-Sales Unit at SCHP was strengthened, clear guidelines on
PE-sales procedures have been issued, and early results of past
transactions have been published to enhance transparency of the
process (para 54).
(f)  The UCD has been established, appointing the Unit Coordinator and
an action plan for the development and application of the PAs has
been agreed upon (para 68).
98.      As a condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness (i) the
Government would furnish evidence that it has made substantial progress,
satisfactory to the Bank, in obtaining adequate financing for its
requirements for Fiscal Years 1989 and 1990 in the context of its
adjustment program and growth targets as set in SHCP document on Mexico's
Strategy (pars 41 and Policy Matrix--Annex V); (ii) a satisfactory draft of
the regulations to the PE Law of 1986 would be furnished to the Bank
(paras 67,71,72); and (iii) NAPIN would submit subsidiary agreements to the
Bank for passing on the proceeds of the proposed loan to the Government on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 87). The loan's first
tranche would be released upor. effectiveness.
99.      The second tranche would be released after November 30, 1989, and
after an exchange of views with the Government and confirmation that the
conditions for second tranche release have been met. To this end, the Bank
would need to be satisfied that:
(a)  The macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the PE
reform program (para 46).
(b)  Continuous progress has been made in obtaining adequate financing
for Mexico's requirements for 1989-90 and over the medium-term in
the context of the adjustment program and growth targets set forth
in "Mexico's Economic Strategy, issued by SPP (para 41). And
(c)  That the following measures have been taken:
(i) CGF has been formally empowered to give final recommendation
on a case-by-case basis on the creation of PEs, their
subsidiaries and acquisition of companies by public sector
entitles, consistent with the redefined Government role in
the production of goods and services (para 56);
(ii) continued progress in restricting transfers to PEs in a
manner consistent with the approved FY89 Federal Budget
(para 60);



- 33 -
(iii) issuance of regulations to the PE Law of 1986 defining among
others: (i) Government agencies' role of supervising PEs
(para 67), (ii) role and compositior.s of the PEs' BODs
(para 71), and (iii) chart-rs of PEs enhancing the role of
BODs' technical committees (para 72);
(iv) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
Disengagement Program (para 55); and for the five selected
PEs for the Performance Agreement scheme, that they have them
operating under the PA system (para 70);
(v) the regulations of the Procurement Law has been issued
(para 63);
(vi) the UCD is fully staffed and operating according to charter
and satisfactory progress in the implementation of its action
plan has been made (para 68);
(vii) satisfactory guidelines for the elaboration of sector plans
and corporate programs are provided in the National
Development Plan to be issued in mid-1989 (para 80); and
(viii) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Loan's
Plan of Action described below (para 100).
G. Other Loan Conditions under a Plan of Action
100.     In addition to the proposed second tranche release conditions,
Loan disbursement is also conditional to the satisfactory implementation,
by the Mexican Government, of the following Action Plan.
(a) Competitive Environment
(i) Reduce Price Distortions: By July 31, 1989, begin study on
economic prices on FERRONALES (para 59).
(ii) Reduce Barriers to Entry: By July 31, 1989, commence a study
to increase private sector presence in areas dominated by
FERRONALES, e.g., contracting out, leasing, etc. (para 62).
(iii) Institutional and Organizational Structure Reforms Conducive
to a more Competitive Environments By October 31, 1989,
SEMIP to initiate a study on mining, to reassess role of
DGMM, DGM, and CFM in light of the reduced share of PEs on
total mining output (para 61).
(b)  Managerial ar   .nancial Autonomy and Accountability
(i) Establish Financial Management Tools, Systems and Procedures:
By July 31, 1989, sector Ministry to issue TOR for
consultants to assess and improve in selected PEs, financial
management tools and propose remedial action as needed
(para 76).



- 34 -
(ii) Improve and standardize Accounting and Auditing Systems
applied in PEs: By August 31, 1989, SPP will provide
evidence about the implementation of a program to promote the
use of the accounting and auditing rules included in
"Catalogo de Formatos e Instructivos del Sector Paraestatal"
(para 75).
(iii)  Rationalize Reporting Systems to Minimize Information Flows
to Data Essential for Government Evaluation and Planning: By
August 31, 1989, SPP to issue revised PE integrated
information and monitoring system (para 75).
(iv) Simplify PE's Budgeting Procedures and Practices: By
September 30, 1989, SPP to furnish to the Bank an Action
Plan, based on a review of existing budgetary norms and
regulations, to simplify, deregulate, and make more flexible
the budgetary process and its implementation for PEs
operating tinder Performance Agreements (para 77).
(v) Rationalize Budgeting Procedures and Investment Processing:
By August 31, 1989, exchange views with the Bank on actions
to improve the budgeting and funding (or funds releasing)
procedures for externally financed investment. By
September 1, 1989, SPP to submit acceptable TOR for a study
to (a) strengthen investment planning and evaluation by
issuing guidelines for economic evaluation for public
investment projects; (b) strengthen budgeting procedures by
introducing multi-year budgeting; and (c) establish a central
monitoring unit. Commence the study by October 15, 1989. By
April 15, 1990, submit to the Bank a satisfactory plan of
action to implement the study's recommendation (para 80).
R. Monitoring and Renortina
101.    Assessing the effectiveness of actions to be taken under the
proposed loan will require monitoring of the adequacy and consistency of
the macroeconomic framework and of the implementation of specific actions
under the program detailed in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy. The SHCP would be responsible for coordination of project
implementation and would maintain regular contacts with Bank staff. NAFIN,
as the Borrower, would prepare quarterly reports on the implementation of
the Loan and on the progress of the public enterprise reform program. The
Bank will also monitor these matters through regular supervision and
exchanges of views with the Government.
1.  Proiect Benefits and Risks, and Social Imiact
102.     The adjustment of the PE sector is a critical component of
Mexico's medium-term recovery and development strategy. The proposed loan
will provide technical and finaacial support to rationalize the role of the
State in the economy and improve the operating efficiency of selected PEs.



- 35 -
103.     The promotion of managerial and financial autonomy and
accountability and the introduction of performance agreements programs
will serve to streamline the respective functions of the State as owner or
shareholder and the PE management as operator. The progressive
disengagement of the State from commercially oriented activities should
result in a more responsive operational environment with greater reliance
on decentralized decision-making. With the reform of the investment
approval system, properly appraised and economically viable operations
should raise returns on investment. Reforms in the Government's budgeting
procedures will ensure greater consistency among the allocation of
resources, the future demands of the economy, and medium-term development
objectives.
104.     At the enterprise level, the improvement of management information
systems, accounting and auditing will strengthen managerial decision-making
and increase the transparency of operations. The specific restructuring
programs and studies supported by this loan will help PEs adapt to an
environment which is increasingly subject to market forces.
105.     Reductions in Government transfers to PEs and adjustment of PEs'
ontput prices to more realistic levels, and greater financial and
managerial autonomy for the PE sector, will have positive effects on both
the macroeconomic performance as well as the performance of individual
enterprises. The accountability system under the Performance Agreement
scheme will help improve PE financial discipline, help to enhance their
internal cash generation and reduce their budgetary dependence, thus
improving Government savings and reducing claims on credit to the economy.
This will contribute to the goal of macroeconomic stabilization.
106.     The incremental impact of the reform program on the broad
macroeconomic aggregates is expected to result in a 132 real reduction of
Government investment and operational transfers to public enterprises
during 1989. Moreover, inflation pressures are expected to fall owing to
productivity gains in the major PEs, and private sector activity is
projected to grow as a result of the PE-sales program, more stable
macroeconomic environment, and the redefined role of the Government in the
production of goods and services.
107.     Project risks are essentially financial, institutional and
political in nature. Financial risks will be mitigated throught (i) the
pursuit of a satisfactory fiscal stabilization program as addressed in a
parallel operation, the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan; (ii) progress in
working out a medium-term foreign financing plan consistent with the
requirements of the macro-economic adjustment program and growth/targets;
(iii) the programs to adjust real prices on goods/services produced by PEs
currently accounting for about 902 of Government transfers to parastatals;
and (iv) the formulation and implementation of policies and programs to
decrease the weight of the PE sector in the economy through both,
disengagement actions, and efficiency improvements in retained PEs, with
consequential reduction in government transfers.



- 36 -
108.     The main institutional risks are that existing vested interests
within governmental institutions will resist the measures aimed at
reforming the current situation, whereby various Ministries interfere with
PE management and exercise ex ante controls over critical PE activity.
This risk is mitigated through the role of the Interministerial CGF, which
will promote the appropriate expression of ministerial interest in PE
matters. The replacement of ex ante controls by ex Post monitoring will be
supported by appropriate accounting practices, independent auditing
requirements and performance agreement plans.
109.     Political risks relate to possible opposition to some of these
reforms by the strong public sector labor unions and/or Congress. This
risk is being mitigated by the commitment by the Government to continue to
maintain open dialogue with the private sector, labor unions and Congress,
as realized when the Pacto and PECE were developed. Also, as described
below, specific actions will be taken to minimize the short-term social
cost associated with the implementation of the proposed program.
110.     A program that includes PE-sales and efficiency improvement in PEs
could lead to a reduction in employment in the short term, although, as
suggested by early findings on privatizations in Mexico (para 49), such
reduction is not expected to be drastic. The Government will continue to
address this issue through the provision of special measures such as
adequate severance payments, and early retirement plans. Also, when
employment alternatives do not seem suitable to the skills of affected
labors, the Ministry of Labor (STPS) will design and implement retraining
programs, on a case-by-case basis. It is also expected that under private
ownership or when restructured, the industrial entities will become more
competitive and efficient, resulting in higher growth of the economy and
increase in employment in the longer run.
i11.     In addition to specific measures to address unemployment, upon
assuming office in December 1988, the new Administration unveiled its
Programa Nacional de Solidaridad" to address poverty. In the first stage,
the Program covers 1,276 rural municipios in the 10 poorest states of
Mexico. The urban poor are addressed through a series of special measures
in the metropolitan areas of Mexico City, as well as other state capitals.
Total resources set aside for the program in 1989 are about US$400 million.
Of the total, 202 will be spent on directly productive activities in
agriculture, 302 on infrastructure-related activities and the remaining 50%
on social services. The continued expansion of the program is expected to
cost three times as much next year. The plan eventually is to set aside
substantially larger resources to cover all poor groups by 1996. Salient
features of the program include a food subsidy program targeted to the
poor, popular kitchens in urban areas to provide subsidized nourishing
meals to the urban poor, food supplement programs for the urban poor,
subsidized milk and several other programs to provide general health care.
Further information on measures being taken by the Government to alleviate
the impact of its adjustment on the poor, as well as other nutritional and
primary health care programs, are provided in the President's Report for
the parallel FSL operation.



- 37 -
112.     The capacity of existing Governmental institutions to implement a
broad-ranging and complex reform, while monitoring the implementation of
many enterprise restructuring programs, will be strained. This risk has
been addressed through the organizatior. of specialized task forces,
assisted by consultants, to help Government agencies in implementing each
of the tasks envisaged under the reform program. It should, however, be
recognized that full achievement of the PE reform can only be accomplished
in the medium term.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
AND GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
A. Bank OPerations
113.     As of March 31, 1989, Mexico had received 111 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$11.5 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 75 loans, totalling US$5.5 billion, were fully disbursed and US$2.4
billion remained undisbursed. The Bank's exposure was US$5.89 billion (on
book value basis) (Annex II), while on a cash basis this is equivalent to
US$7.4 billion. Some 292 of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development, 182 for industry, 142 for transportation, 62 for power,
and 172 for policy-based lending; the remaining 162 has been for water
supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training. Commitments
for new loans reached US$1.7 billion in FY87 and US$2 billion in FY88. For
FY89-90, the annual amount of Bank lending commitments, subject to the
successful consolidation of agreed reforms, is expected to be about US$2.0
billion.
114.     Currently, the Bank has 36 operations under supervision.  Nine of
these projects are in agriculture, 11 in trade, industry and finance, 12 in
infrastructure (including transportation, urban, and water sectors and one
earthquake emergency reconstruction operation), two in education, and two
in low income housing. Project implementation, on the whole, has been
satisfactory. Bank disbursements reached US$1.22 billion in FY87 and
US$1.0 billion in FY88.
B. Government DeveloDment Obiectives
115.     The Government's overriding objective for the current Sexenio is
the restoration of growth after six years of falling per capita income.
But the experience of the past six years has made it clear that without
macroeconomic stability and access to external financing, sustainable
growth will remain out of reach; thus the Government considers the success
of the stabilization effort and a resolution of the debt overhang problem
as prerequisites for any success towards renewed growth. Moreover,
increased growth will have to go together with increasing living standards
for the poorer segments in society, both in its own right and to maintain
the consensus underlying the Government's program. To this end the
Government has embarked on a significant expansion in policies oriented
towards poverty alleviation.



- 38 .
116.     In addition, the Government strongly feels that growth should be
private sector based, with the Government providing a supporting role.
Thus the Government intends to continue its reform program towards a
modern, rationalized incentive structure for the private sector. This will
reduce the need for government intervention, Improve private sector
resource allocation and provide full support for efficient private sector
investment by foreigners and domestic entrepreneurs alike. To allow the
public sector to play a supportive role towards private sector based
growth, the Government intends to modernize the machinery of the state and
focus its role on legitimate public sector functions. This involves
continued privatization/modernization there called for, and improvement of
the efficiency of the remaining parts of the public sector.
117.     With these in mind, the Government has adopted a policy agenda,
consisting of the implementation of macroeconomic policies that are
consistent with the objectives of the recovery of growth, increased fiscal
efforts, improved efficiency of the financial system, reduction of interest
subsidies and strengthened prudential regulation. To improve the
efficiency of public enterprises (PEs), and to reduce the heavy burden they
impose on the eccanmy, the Government is focusing ons (i) *disengagement
of enterprises, including privatization, liquidation, mergers, and transfer
of PEs to local governments; and (ii) a program of reforms in the policy
and institutional environment to improve the efficiency of PEs which would
be retained by the Government. These measures will improve the competitive
environment and provide greater managerial and financial autonomy and
accountability to PEs, increase market forces, decentralize decision
making, strengthen managerial capabilities and incentives and improve the
allocation of resources. To help complete the transformation of Mexico's
Industrial sector from its inward-oriented and highly protected structure
to an open system where the factors of production and services compete
freely, the Government is undertaking a broad deregulation effort. This is
designed to provide, at the same time, for technological change and
modernization, so as to ensure an adequate supply response to new policies.
118.     Provided the Government is able to resolve these intertwined
stabilization, debt, growth, and efficiency issues, maintains satisfactory
progress in advancing the major structural adjustment policies already
described, and benefits from a reasonably favorable international
environment, the fundamentals for sustained rapid growth look promising.
First, Mexico has a rich natural and human resource base and close
proximity to the world's largest market. Secondly. the rationalization of
the trade regime has created incentives strongly favoring international
competitiveness and improved investment efficiency. Lastly, low Mexican
unit labor costs make the country attractive as an industrial base. The
Bank's base case macroeconomic scenario shows that with moderately
favorable external conditions and consistent macro policies and deeper
adjustment efforts, GDP growth would climb slowly from about 2S per annum
in 1989 to about St per annum by 1994. The realization of this scenario is
contingent on foreign financing. If this financing were not available, or
if Mexico's external conditions were to deteriorate, output growth would
slow down and employment opportunities would not keep pace with population
growth. Mounting social pressures, in that case, would make it very
difficult for the Government to stay the course and the efficiency gains of
structural reforms may be lost. An under-financed adjustment program would
simply compromise Mexico's ability to service even its current debt.



- 39 -
119.     Civen the fiscal crunch under which Mexico's policy makers must
operate, more effective programs are necessary in the social sectors,
including health, education, and nutrition, which are designed to target
resources and cushion the needy against the impact of adjustment, while
permitting the benefits of structural reform to be reaped. Therefore, the
new Administration has, in December 1988, unveiled the 'National Solidarity
Program' to address the worst manifestations of poverty in the ten poorest
states of the Union and the urban poor in Mexico City and all state
capitals. Of the total of approximately US$400 million set aside for 1989,
20S will be allocated to agriculture, 30Z to infrastructure, and 0S on
social services.
120.     Historically, ecological and natural resource management issues
have ranked low on the list of Mexican policy priorities. However, over
recent years extremely serious environmental problems have been affecting
the health of most Mexicans and the country's economic growth potential.
The worst problems have been encountered in air and water pollution, soil
erosion and deforestation. These and other issues in Mexico's management
of its ecology and natural resources have received increasing Governmental
attention and the Government is now committed to put in place a strategy
that can deal with these issues effectively over the medium and long term.
C.  Bank Strateav
121.     The Bank's assistance strategy is designed to support Mexico's
major reform initiatives through an expanded policy dialogue and
substantial volumes of lending, thus contributing to the consolidation of
an outward-oriented development model and serving as a catalyst for
mobilizing external finance in the required amounts for the restoration of
the growth of the economy.
122.     The Bank has transferred increasing amounts of resources to Mexico
through policy-based and sector adjustment loans in the context of an
adjustment-oriented framework that was supported by the 1986-87 commercial
financing package; it has become Mexico's largest single source of new
money. Six Bank loans in trade, exports, agriculture, and industry were
linked to the multi-facility financing scheme, providing drawdown
conditions for the parallel money and growth facilities which were
mobilized fully in March 1988. The Bank also put up guarantees of US$750
million. In addition, the Bank facilitated Mexico's efforts to issue of
securitized bonds for retiring old debt in January 1988. The Bank's
strategy supported primarily policies designed to open the economy.
123.     The obJectives of the Bank's strategy are to engage tl  Mexican
Administration in a wide-ranging dialogue on macroeconomic measures
required to complete stabilization and spur growth, and on efficiency
issues across the board, including finance, industry and agriculture, and
to help tackle problems of structural poverty and alleviate the social cost
of the adjustment process. The lank has taken a staged approach in its
support of the initiatives of the Government. As a first step, the Bank
conducted an overview of Mexico's adjustment priorities and, jointly with
the Government, agreed on the conditionality of three adjustment
operations, (Financial Sector Adjustment, Public Enterprise Reform, and
Industrial Sector Policy Loans). The policy content of these three
operations provides the central element in the lank's support for Mexico in
1989.



- 40 -
124.     To provide the intellectual underpinnings for a continued
dialogue, the Bank is carrying out jointly with the Government an expanded
program of economic and sector work, including (a) a review of the current
regulatory and financial framework in industry and agriculture; (b) a study
of future tax reform options; (c) an intensive analysis of urban air
pollution in collaboration with the World Health Organization; (d) an
assessment of infrastructure and energy sector issues; (e) the development
of strategies for integrated health and nutrition initiatives; (f) an
assessment of improved programs to ameliorate rural poverty; and (g) an
analysis of environmental issues to come up with a set of recommendations.
This collaborative effort is also expected to help keep in place a robust
lending program in 1990 and beyond, designed to support priority reform
measures and optimize resource flows. In this context, the semi-annual
country strategic and implementation review between the Bank and the
Government -- introduced in 1985 -- affords the Bank a timely opportunity
to make adjustments in the existing portfolio to adapt to new conditions.
D. Agriculture
125.     Because of longstanding structural problems in agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the country's population
living in rural areas, agriculture has been the lead4ng sector for Bank
lending. The Bank's lending program in agriculture is aimed at: (a)
helping correct the incentives regime in agriculture through gradually
reductions in input subsidies and export controls; (b) promoting more
efficient and rationale use of natural resources supported by improved
technologies and services; (c) generating employment-intensive investments
in rural areas and effective assistance to small farmers; and (d) creating
an integral framework for sound rural development. To support these goals,
the Bank made a US$300 million Agriculture Sector Loan during FY88, and,
starting in FY90, expects to support policy adjustment in agriculture,
rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure, including improved cost
recovery and maintenance operations, investments for agricultural marketing
and storage facilities, food security, poverty alleviation, and forestry
development.
E. Trade
126.     The Bank has made two trade policy loans of US$500 million each in
FY87 and FY88 in support of the Government's sweeping trade reforms. The
two operations supported the speedy reduction of non-tariff barriers
(quotas and official reference prices) and rationalization of the tariff
system (reduced levels and dispersion). The Bank supported the development
of non-oil exports through two export development operations in FY83 and
PY87. These export development loans were intended to strengthen the
supply response by Mexican industry to the new trade policy signals. A
third export loan is under preparation, which would strengthen the
temporary import regime, provide further support to indirect exporters,
assure automatic access to finance by exporters under the various credit
programs, streamline financial and administrative procedures, and seek
further reductions in export controls.



- 41 -
F. Industrv
127.     The Bank's lending strategy for industry, covering small and
medium-scale industry, mining, the capital goods industry, industrial
restructuring and technology development, is designed to support: (a) trade
policy reform; (b) financial sector policies to reverse the prolonged
contraction of savings mobilization through interest rate decontrol and the
development of a wider menu of savings instruments, and the rationalization
of credit allocation in support of viable, competitive private companies;
(c) industrial restructuring, regulatory reform, clarification of foreign
investment rules, and export promotion to assure a vigorous supply response
to trade liberalization and increased international competitiveness.
Recent Bank operations provided support for restructuring of the
fertilizer, steel, automotive parts, textile, and flower sectors, and other
key private industrial subsectors demonstrating a capacity for undertaking
integrated restructuring operations.
G. Infrastructure
128.     Lending for infrastructure is focussing on regional development,
decentralization, more efficient public investment allocation, and improved
cost recovery. Recent Bank loans supported the highway, railways and port
sub-sectors. Emphasis was placed on obtaining more realistic user fees and
deferring all but the highest-yielding investment projects so as to permit
a minimum of budgetary outlays for maintenance expenditures and protect the
existing capital stock. Proposed loans would support the Government's
decentralization initiatives, cost-based pricing, and managerial improve-
ments.  Loans are being prepared to finance the upgrading, rehabilitation,
and maintenance of roads at the state level, the construction of toll roads
cofinanced with the Mexican private sector, the restructuring of several
ports, water supply and sewerage, urban transport, and power.
H. Housint
129.     Government housing programs designed to improve cost recovery,
while providing transparent and controlled credit subsidies only to the
truly needy, have also benefitted from Bank financing. A Second Housing
Finance loan would support graduated loan cost recovery linked to the
income of final borrowers, thus ensuring a reduced drain on the fisc and
affordability for low-income beneficiaries.
I. Social Sectors and Environment
130.     The Bank is assisting the Government in redesigning public health,
education, and human resource programs to make them more cost effective and
targeted to meet the needs of the poor. A proposed health project would
support decentralization measures, finance new primary health facilities,
and strengthen professional services. Similar initiatives are being
pursued in education and nutrition. A pilot project under preparation
would improve the well-being of women in rural areas. It includes the
provision of water wells, health and educational services, training for
productive activities, and credit for launching new microenterprises.



- 42 -
These focussed operations would be followed by broader programs, once the
institutional conditions and capacity for project implementation can
support a larger Bank presence.
131.     The Bank is also undertaking jointly with the Government and the
World Health Organization a major review of air pollution issues to
determine how the Bank could best contribute to new Government programs for
cleaning up polluted urban environments. With strong Government
commitment, the Bank would focus on technical assistance operations,
include strengthened environmental components in investment loans, and --
as soon as the policy framework and suitable institutional arrangements are
there -- make loans for sector-wide environmental programs and in support
of remaining environmental policy issues.
J. IFC Operations
132.     The IFC has worked with the Bank to:  (i) identify private sector
investment opportunities likely to thrive in the current climate of growth-
oriented adjustment and greater integration with the world economy; and
(ii) assist in strengthening the country's capital markets through economic
sector work and venture capital operations. As of March 31, 1989, the IFC
had invested US$990.7 million in 37 companies in Mexico, of which US$690.2
million had been sold, repaid, or cancelled.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
133.     Bank/IMF collaboration has been close over the years, especially
since 1982, when the Fund began to assist the Government to help address
the underlying causes of the ecor aic crisis. Since that time the
Government benefited from an EFF of SDRs 3.6 billion, a special emergence
drawing of SDRs 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, and a stand-by of
SDRs 1.4 billion. Currently, the Government is committed to its commercial
creditors under the terms of the 1986 multi-facility financing package to
engage the Fund in an enhanced surveillance of the macroeconomic program.
Since the ending of stand-by in 1988, the first such review has taken place
in the beginning of 1989.
134.     Consultations have taken place between Fund and Bank staff
concerning Mexico's current economic situation and prospects, covering
fiscal, monetary, financial and exchange and interest rate policies, and
there is an understanding about the measures that will be needed to wind
down the stabilization program, strengthen the balance of payments and
recover growth in 1989. Since the time of appraisal, discussions between
the Government and the Fund have advanced considerably about a possible
EFF. Currently, it is expected that a three-year facility would be in
place before the scheduled Board date of the proposed loan. Further
consultations would take place between the two institutions to monitor
macroeconomic performance during the implementation period of the proposed
adjustment loans.



- 43 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIOR
135.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 22, 1989
Washington D.C.



- 44-
ANNEX I
110110- SCMCDWT                                        Page  1  of  3
hid-lO?Pe,tt    alo)              4
106? Per Capita      IN5. WI 500
A. Uotiem of Creas Iminapie Pridu.t                  S. aret esRteaem per annei)
(free warrant arie. dlate)                        (frow, euftet price date)
1968   1978   19110   lOSt   £967 it" PI          INS8-la 197840 196047-  108  1496PI
Or... Oummele Pnnduet .g.  100 1. 1.0            0.0 1.0100.0                   6.9    6.2    0.8    1.4    1.1
Na   aieTaxies           4.8    8.0    8.8    6.8   10.4       ...                    ..        -    --        
AnieuIture            ~~~~~~~~13.9   .11.    6.2    9.4    0. .28.11:              8.4    1.4    0.5   4.6
Ruduat',              17~~~~~~~2.1   39.0    2.S   88.6    8.8  ..          .8    7.0   -0.8    2.0    1.8
(of.11g Iwauectuinia)       19.7   39.1   39.1   24.6   15.1        ..            .8    8.7    0.0    2.5    9.8
serview               5~~9.1   80.9   80.0   W6.6   W8.8      ...9    8.1    0.8    1.8    1.6
amour". 2413*..                .4.9   .4.9   42.8    4.8    7.2    1.8                 .      .
beort  of@U                    7.7    6.9   10.7   16.9   19.2   16.0              6.2    .8;    7.6   12.2    7.8
zop..t. of  m.6    6.5   18.0   11.6   12.0   14.0                                 6.9    9.7   -.8.      3.8   88.9
Total Iaeaditur.a              101.   101.9  102.8   98.7   90.6   97.7              6.9    6.8   -1.8   40.8    1.7
Total1 COm4Wiue.Ie            80.2   79.9   78.1   76.6   74.2   77.4              6.6    8.6    0.4   1.4.       4.2
Private cmfteuqtiee         738.   71.6   68.1   67.7   68.    69.0               8.8    8.6   40.1   -1.4
Canmenu Cae.rm.t             8.8    8.2   10.0    9.1    6.6    8.4               6.7    7.8    8.2   -1.0
Gr.ac Oamee;gta eombset,      10.5   20.0   27.1   19.8   16.6   10.8              8.4    7.0   -7.0   .4.8    4.8
pli Rd Itvweatm"t           17.6   19.2   24.8   17.6   18.9   18.8               9.8    7.1   -8.4   -0.e    0.7
Conl..s, in fto**            1.0    0.8    2.4    0.9   40.8    1.6                .       .
Or...Cmis. Uaeiag            18.8   16.1   24.9   18.2   15.6   22.6              6.4    6.8   -.4.    7.6   48.4
Ust eelr Ii....             -2.0   -4.1   -2.9   45.9   46.0   .4.8                .      .
Nat Curret- Trnaaf.ra          0.0    0.1    01a    0.4    0.8    0.6                .      .
Cr... Sktolmel Sawlit           18.7   14.1   2.1   17.7   11.8   18.8               16.11   7.7   -8.0   88.7  -81-I
In, billI lam of LOA.           168   1978  1lo0   1"06       la 106 M1 6/
(Os eceetma 160 prices)         -           -      --
Ore.. ommatie Product         1669   19    4470   472    47918   4648              6.9    6.2    0.8    1.4    1.1
Capgiety to Ii,et              11s    200    479    448    489    819              0.?   11.8   -1.0    8.6   13.1
Tow, at' Trod. Adjuitmat       461    -9s       0   -81    -89    4306               .      .
C,... Osmatic 1....           1639   279    4470   4407   4868  41448               6.0    6.4   4.18   40.2    1.1
Gow.. Natimil product         186    166    4361   4477   4709   4742               7.?    8.9    0.6    8.2    0.7
Gown,. Nationil Ifeee.        1169   1771   4841   418    4814   4844               7.8    8.2   40.6    8.7    0.7
(190  100)                       ____---- iaf Sone RatelCI c.
C.       Aidim                  1060   141914   196811   1496   1067 1968 pi       1968-78 107840 1490-8   196  196 PI
C..e.Ao  Prices (InS 64)       100.0  679.0  1071.1 194.9  461.7 9906.1               4.8   20.8   78.0  181.8  114.2
whooleeeI Pnlgee  (PFs 68)     100.0  66.0  1068.4 19641.4 467 9 960. 1               4.0   32.8   73.7  1181.6  108.
1.3 Slli M0P Oaf lter          100.0  614.8  9168.8  1879.8 dmI.8 86164              8.9   21.2   68.9  148.0  104.0
Rapliell Uapa.,dltures Gafet   100.0  6115.0  9911.1  1768.8 4487.8    .               .6   10.9   71. 1  184.4
0.Sl,rldleator.:          19687S 1978400 196047
es.h   teem p.s.):
Pwmulateam                     8.4    1.7    2.1
LaO, PArOs
Grov wo  IbI. ?ema.e.          4.8    8.4   42.9
PrIvfte Catmeuti.. pk.o.       1.8    0.6   -2.12
Zapent owi.tlite
low"I (0.160 / OP(Se)          1.0    1.6  -17.1
Horsiest Saviaga 246..:
aonma Nibtlml S"awle          11.8   86.0
Croam DOhmale SeIvng          17.6   87.8  48.8
1I=  (period everagee)s           . .    8.7   15.6
Shire of 746gB                  19681  1978   196110   1987
Labo,Nr PagINS                      -    -    -
Dsni.ulture                   49.6   41.6   86.
IDWuael                       11.9   15.7   19.0
servle.a                      105.   81.8   84.8
Tofte                        160.0  100.0  160.0



- 45 -
ANNE I
Page 2 of S
1O01211 -  ecm   0DOTI
6465I OF S
Volam  la.                           Ihlu  at Curr -  Prr;r. (i;lt;<. 18)
6. NarehaadIae Laporte           1960   1964 l   196    16         7  1m    p/  1960    14 1      W 196  M6    S9W   S    PI
oil                             100.0  111.5   170.9   14.6   14.4    K.4  10          1       14767   607    S80    70
Reftore_                        100.0  18A.4   1.?        .7  394.?       ..   a        85n    4       7116       7   li6l0
othe100.0 .                             1063   1133   1.0  36.0  M61.?   S0    00    1918   36                   19   34
Total Exports Fe                100.0  173.1  148.5   11.4  19.2   8I0.A   151   3416   qur    16             soM6   06
P. Nsrchm.ds. Zerte
cs@u   we"                      1o-0,03.3   87.1V   39.0 .8               .. 34          SWOs   5013    u       is      13
latre_ibt S                     100.0   60.8   70.2   6.6   66.8          ..  110    7?          i6    762    i       1
OmIl1l _o"                      100.0   60.5   70.2   62.6   66.8         ..    174   378   51           54   2661   405
Total 1.rta Pu                  100.0   60.8   3,0   514.8   86.5   77.6  166   *1164"  1t113  11A44   1251   %5
0. tw_ er  o f            tr    196    1464    466   196    196    1_
irth. _Ecota Price loe          100.0   00.1   65.4   60.5   6.8   651.6
"i.h. Iorte Pric, hid.          100.0  118.4  311.6  117.4  120.6  28.8
Reich. Tern  of Trt.d           100.0   76.1   72.0   81.4   57.4   00.2
WI  ;llIlIIn  (at Correa%  rites):
1. blanc. of Pa.eat              1960   1964   196       Me   lop  am7 DI
b*ort of OM" a Wm5                35   60156  3764   31911   o76          F0
Rercheadse. (PFI)            106   34196   1668  1105   3065   3065
Fctor sarvi 5t 90   8960   5961    60   60    S4
erta of *Om   a weS             5664   1000   16   16172  17111  2414
-aer ial  (s )                  U166   11365  133    1148    2M    180
Nem-Factor  rvwirns6165   46    818    4740   46 6                     911
R    irc. Sl am.                -2      14076   9268   57i9  10i46    4o91
Nat Fwto  Iaono                 -609  -1ow47   903       nu   -        -6m
(;"twai r    MlRS )            491   132   99    7T7   701 
Nat CurreatTraf.e                 183    tO       81     t6      66      57
(.woese rcsitt*am_s)              0      0       0       0    391    48
Cur  /C AMl before Off. TrA    8506   4069    547  -875            1  4 97
N1t Offieial Tresfre            146    18       690    304
Carr A/C Sal after O. Tramaf  -6162   4240        W7  -1469
Loog-Tvr Cap1I  bt l             7T97   g68       200    as    46        37
Ocirtt Imwa.tamt               28       a9      491   155   a4    236
U" LT Lam" (a   data)          6619   1019    '46      89   4317  -211
Othar LT USf lea (t)          -137      448   -M    -l0os   -$M       -M
Total Other It_ (at)            1666  -451   4_6    1781  -181   -44"
Nat Shur TWO Capitol           818   437   -1695    694  -87   -6610
Capital Flm lI.I.                 0       0      0       0      ..
Urwa  ad blsaims              411770  -1014  -16      S17    144   46
cham.le Ut Reserves              -6    -230   36    -8          6U4  ?71
Ret CredI from the SW          -16    110o    60   1091   1166    14
GU. ROeerq. Olaasaa            -6    -50   318   -16t7   56    701
As Share of GO:
Ream". ibl*am                  -1.1    6.0    8.0    4.4    7.8    3.2
Interest pbummte                3.4    1.8    8.1    6.0    8.0    4.8
Current A..... 64lam.          -4.5    2.8    0.5   -1.4    3.?   .1.6
N     _ eas td  Ies.:
Re_ervea *". 314 (all. UW)    90    7373   4906   50   1270            8
Resarve fowl. 3414 (all. USe)   4175   On19    69   5"9   161           6665
Oficial Zbth  Cl.O*AW)          0   1 876."  36.67  81.77 1865.00   .o0
1.. Rea Of. X2  bas  110, 160.00  114.40  111.70  15.9   1.40 13.40
F       li ($II low. of eurreai UN)  1476  17864  14    1s79  14513  1m7



- 46 -
ANN   I
Page 3 of 3
14111(    - ICMe     DeOCATM
PAN S P a
Shab,  d   (C )                                      aeGrow"s-  04
2. CaoS -Idte  Pubi S St       1 1     1010    1"    1 106I" 1    lS e/                   1-44  im        1067 1   SS *1
Coreent S.ecat                 2.9  11161.2   8.2  110.    80.2   40.0                      4.1  .4.        .
cGnam  goom4ltur.a             2SJ   16.1   S1.8  1l.0   16.0    5.8                        4..  21.4
orrect Sodop" kbim.             6.6    0.1   -1.4   -7.7   -6.7    4.8                       ..
Coitl I dta.e_a                 9.             0.0     0.0    8.5    4.4                   4.5   4*.        .
Ad3 at.mt-                     -1.0           -5        .1   -1.8   -5.2                     ..
Overtal Dteilct                -7.0   4t.0   4.   -14.0  -2.6  -U.0                          .      .
Nat Obkaaa.t. ISO dI 11 t)            Ogh Otataal..  OIba 01  8i QJ1*111t ie)
J. Satanr,l Capital Plam0.       -l, O-b- 
mmd 0.8  bed  Ratio        106   1084   1ns    sin    107 108 P/  100   1S    1sn    1o6   1    low 
1Afble S PublIaps G"P. LT      58      2       6119s             04    8    an"   062        u11  9ml0   771  S
offiil credit.,               7         ?    8tOS   I7    1744   1740   461   67   OM   U1             20  1878
-lt.ilS-.  l                a0      66     720      2     8       60    1O    43       6017    K7   10s0  1
of which IR               838    40    a0        592    418    a8   OS               4084   SW    76   742
of wIhic  M                 0       0      0       0      0      0       0      0       0      0       0      0
late ra                     204    18       78    44    285    118    1291   26        O      850   a60   am16
vate Creit.                  454      898      2   -U14   80  -l18   250           2    OM   San   OM    62640
l1"Vol..                    1-5    -15      1s  n         1o      -18    2D  l 6               m       268    445
phictal me,r.0.            480      84    -15   -211   8m              20      lo620   6a4   6M,  wuo
Private Im-ouratt.             1700    864   -01   -0   -6                  I80  1S6  145   1            141U0    M
TOtl ULT                      6O       1819    -96    S"    417  -u1  412tl   0106  1sun   9104  0N61    001
iW Creit                       -134   124        0    72      414   -109       0   860   2        40      81    80
Not Jhort-Tora Caital          51# n  -82   -M         604  -157  -ac610  1815    640   8OM         0    5s0    am
Totl joel.  P * at St          11841   -674  -1480   216   1474  -W    545    WIN    60S  014  10712 16
Sbob ad MA "coti_              110   164   185   1W    10   106
Share of YTol LawyTra 00
1. Si  as dof 1T~              8.00   8.81    4.86   6.11   7.16   8.17
2. D as Sdo Totel              0.86   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
S. StSin A as  Sdof Total      8.00   8.81   4.88   6.11   7.5    5.17
ShOre of LT D0bt Service
1. S   as S of Toal            2.78   8.06   4.11   8.8    0.86   7.61
2. IDA as  d.o Tota            0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
8. nWA as S of Toutl           2.78   8.05   4.11   8.66   0.86   7.81
1. LamTer Oabe_tp.rt         157.64 265.20 267.80 84.85  =.o 27.00
2. DWr cri  _apert             0.00   7.2    0.06  17.14  V.S4  18.07
S. bort-Term, O *atsat         856   19-.8  10.1   24.01   1        .4    .48
4. LT.04ST 0 aport.            27W 292.80 163.70 42.71 82.41    .42
06-t-P Rbtisa
1. L.aop-Tern 0s8o/P          21.20  49.04  47.06  70.2  61.251  40.40
8. SW CredIt                   0.00   1.84   1.81   8.18   8."4   2.75
S. Sort-Twr 0.bt/00P           0.80   5.07   2.08   4.15   4.09   4.86
4. U.ZIW  000T                gos.80  84.06  16.50  T7.01  76.01  51.86
06  1"oo  av
1. PubISl A brantead U LTJ*   84.7    5.5  87.20  10.14   7.S0
3. PriVat Wam-vraht" LT        5.    14.25  18.06  14.74   6.26  14.011,
S. Totil Lo-Tm 08  S Is. W7.07  40.06  48.00  51.98  86.86   1.60
4. V      _     _ br m4aIv. Oel.    0.80   0.I8   0.78   1.60   2.11  5.61
S.  tr ". ol co  0               ..      ..     ..      ..      .
6. Tota CLT#14f a ta.)        86.8   40.41  40.58  16.62  40.71  66.21



- 47 -
ANNM I1
STATUS OF ANRW    P OPERATIONS IN utXICO  1          Page 1 of 2
------------------------------------_---_-
A. Statemt of Snk Loan*s
(As of March $1, 1969)
(USJ mil lI on)
Fl scal                                                Amount less        Undlu-
Loan No.    Year         Beorroer              Purpose             Cancellations      buru-d
76 lo no fully disbursed                                   5,402.00
1700-6      1979   WAFIN               Irrigation                        81.60         1S.14
1868-$       1980   WAFIN              Irrigation                        64.40         16.16
1990        1981   SANMORAS            Urban Devolopment It             144.10         10.01
2048         1992   NAfIN              Integratod Rural 0ev.            176.00          8.07
2142         1M2    NAfIN              Capitol Oeods Industry           162.30          0.40
2164         1062   NAFIN              Pollution Control                 13.09          4.40
2202         1968    WAFIN             Agricultural Marketing           116.00         12.21
2291         1068    BANWARS           Third Water Supply               100.80         80.84
2825         1906    MAfIN             Third Sm/ied Industry            176.00          1.84
2881         1968  BDACGIEXT           Export Development               3t0.00          4.22
2429         1964   BAIIORAS           Highways                         200.00         35.00
2450         1964   SANPESCA           Ports                             60.80         39.22
2620         1965   NAFIN              Chispas Agric. 0ev.               68.00         42.68
2546         1965   NAfIN              Sm/Med Scale Mining II           105.00         89.12
2559         1965   NAFIN             Vocational Education               81.00         28.90
2575        In5   eANOWRAS           Rsilways V                        800.00        167.34
2012         198    DAN9SRAS         Low Incoe Housing I               160.00         28.07
2686         1966   MAfVN             Proderith SI                       86.80         71.20
20a0         1986   9AN W1RAS         Earthquake Rehab                  400.00         80.66
2600         1996   DANOSRAS          Muncicpal Strengthening            40.00         80.02
2069        1980   SABN AS            Solid Wstoe Pilot                  25.00         19.68
2745        19?T  BANC0EXT            Trade Pollcy Loan I               500.00         10.59
2740        1967   NAVfN               Industrial Recovery              160.00         65.88
2747         1967   NAVFN              Technology 0,evlopment            49.00         34.67
2777         1967   OANCONEXT          Export Developmont II            250.00         86.16
2924         1907   BANOURAS           Urban Transport                  125.00        101.12
2687         1907   NAfIN              Agricultural Credit              400.00         61.56
2659  3/    1i06    NAFIN              So/ged Industries IV             100.00        100.00
2069         1967   ,4AFIN             Agrlcultural Extenolon            20.00         10.95
2675         1967   BANOSRAS           Highway  a intenance             13S.00        126.00
2867         1066   NAFIN              Manpower Training                 80.00         68.66
2916         1966   MAFIN              Steel Sector Rastruct.           400.00        342.68
2916         1980   NAfIN              Agricultural Sector Loan         300.00        201.99
2919  3/     1968   MAFIN              Fertltizer Sector Loan           266.00        266.00
2946  3/     198   OANoSRAS            Ports Rehabilitation              60.00         50.00
2947  8/     1988   SANOSRAS           Housing Finance                  300.00        300.00
Total                                           11,469.65
Of which has been repaid                         3,112.06
Total now outstanding                            8,346.80
Amount sold                92.34
Of which has been repaid:  92.34                     0.00
----             - -- -- -- -- ---
Total now held by Bank  2/                       8,346.80
Total undisburoed                                              2,449.16
-----------------
I/ The status of the projects listed In Port A Is In a sparate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
la updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchango adjustment.
8/ Not yet effective.



- 48 -
ANNEX I$
Page 2 of 2
8. Statement of IFC Invewstents
As March 61, 1989
(US1 MilIIon)
Fiscal                                                                   -----Original Approvals---------
Year          Obligor                         Type of Husoitne              Loan      EquIty      Total
________________-- _-- __-------_--______--------- _-- _---_-____________ ___________ ____________ ___________
1968/59       Industriol Perfect
Cricle, S.A.  */             Industrial Equipment          0.80        0.00       0.60
195S          Bristol de Mexico, S.A.   */    A.C. Engine Overhnl            0.60        0.00       0.50
1Io           Aeeros Solar, S.A.  */           Twist Drills                  0.80        0.00       0.30
wn2/6s/e8     Fundidora Monterray, S.A.  */   Steel                          2.30       21.40      23.70
1968          Tubo.  d- Acer. de Mexico       Stainless Steel Pipes          0.90        0.10       1.00
196S          Quimtca del Ry, S.A.  o/         Sodium Sulphote               0.70        0.00       0.70
1964/6         Industria del Hierro, S.A.      Construction Equipment        0.00        2.00       2.00
1970          Miners del Norte   a/            Iron Or- MinIng               1.50        0.00       1.60
1971          Celonoe Mexican., SA.  a/        Textiles                     12.00        0.00      12.00
1972          Promotora Pcpel Periodicos,
S.A. de C.V.   */            Pulp and Paper                0.00          b/         b/
1973/9        Cementoc Veracrux, S.A.          Cement                       15.90        0.00      15.90
1974/61       Cancun Aristos Hotel             Tourism                       1.00        0.30       1.30
1976/78        Mexinox, S. A.                  Stainless Steel              12.00        8.20      16.20
1978/81/84    Pspeles Pondero.., S.A.          Pulp and Paper               10.70        5.00      15.70
1978           Treftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.   Petrochemical                  19.00        0.00      19.00
1979/81/87    Hotel Casino Real Ixtapa, S.A. Tourism                        0.00        4.20       4.20
1979/84       Empreosa  Toltecn, S.A.         Cemnt                        166.00        7.90     175.90
1979          Conductores Monterrey, S.A.    Electrical Wire S Cable        18.00       0.00       18.00
1960          Industries Resistol, S.A.       Particle  .oard              25.00        0.00      25.00
1980          Vidrio Piano de Mexico, S.A.    Flat Close                  114.90        0.00      114.90
196O          Miners Real dJ Angeles, S.A.   Mining                       110.00        0.00      110.00
1981/86       C-lulostcos Centouro., S.A.     Pulp and Paper               69.50        0.00      59.50
1981          CorporOcion Agro-
Industrial S.A              Agri-usines                  11.80         3.00      14.30
1984          Capital Goods Facility  n/      Capital Goode Financing      100.00        0.00     100.00
1984/68       Uetalso, S. A.                  Auto Chosis                    6.00        1.40       9.40
1986          Proteison, S.A. de C.V.         Agri-Business                  2.00        0.80       2.60
1986          Promociones Industrials*
Mexicanas, S.A. d- C.V.      Petrochemical                18.40        0.00      16.40
198           Colul¢os y Papel de Durango,
S.A. de C.V.                 Pulp and Paper               10.00        3.10      13.10
1"7           Agromex Ph*as  I (AESA)          Veg and Fruit Processing      1.60        0.60       2.00
1987           Industries Sulfex,
S.A. do C.V.                 Chemical & Petrochemical      2.00        0.50       2.60
1988          Sealed Power de Mexico           Auto Assembly                 9.00        0.00       9.00
1988          Spasco, S.A. de C.V.             Ceent                        46.00        0.00      46.00
1988          Saluni, S.A. de C.V.             Food and Food Processing    20.10         2.00      22.10
1988          Crescent Market Aggregates       Construction Material        37.00        0.00      37.00
1989          Grupo Femsal Visa                Concumer Goods Conglamorat   80.00        0.00      80.00
1989          Serfin                          Development Finance           80.00        0.00      60.00
1989          Polimar (ASS)                   Petrochemical                 14.60        0.00      14.50
Cros*  Total Commitments                                    990.80       56.40    1048.20
Loes Cancellations, Terminations,
Repsyments and Sales                                     690.20       28.40    718.60
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                           300.6        27.00    327.o0
-=V===                 ZM- =ZZ   .
Totol Undisbursed (Including Parti;ipants)                   76.80        0.10      78.70
n/ Investments which hav- been fully eancelled, terminated,
written off, sold, or repid.
b/ US825,000.



- 49 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the loan:    1 month
(b)  Appraisal Mission:                                  Oct./Nov. 1988
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:                         April 1989
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                      July 1989
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The following Government actions have been taken between appraisal
and Board presentation:
(i)  agreement was reached on the aggregate operational plus
investment transfers to PEs in 1989, which are significantly
below the already reduced level of FY88, on the order of 13Z
in real terms (para 60).
(ii)  in connection with PERL and other Bank operations in Mexico,
the Government prepared a price adjustment plan for goods and
services produced by the five PEs which receive the largest
federal transfers (para 59). Also, a statement of the
Government's price policy for PEs has been included in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV).
(iii)  five of the largest PEs have been selected for the
implementation of the PA plan (para 82), and 199 additional
PEs have been selected for the disengagement program
(para 83).
(iv)  the Government stated its role and policy in the production
of goods and services, defining clearly the concept of
"priority' area for public sector participation, and agreed
on the inclusion of such definition in the National
Development Plan to be issued in mid-1989 (para 56).
(v) the PE-Sales Unit at SCHP was strengthened, clear guidelines
on PE-sales procedures have been issued, and early results of
past transactions have been published to enhance transparency
of the process (para 54).
(vi)  the UCD has been established, appointing the Unit Coordinator
and an action plan for the development and application of the
PAs has been agreed upon (para 68).



- 50 -                          ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(b) The following are the additional conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i)  that the Government would furnish evidence that it has made
substantial progress satisfactory to the Bank in obtaining
adequate financing for its requirements for FY89190 in the
context of its adjustment program and gross targets as set in
the SHCP document on Mexico's strategy (para 41 and Policy
Matrix--Annex V);
(ii) that a satisfactory draft of the regulations to the PE Law of
1986 would be furnished to the Bank (paras 67, 71, 72); and
(iii) that NAFIN would submit subsidiary agreements to the Bank for
passing on the proceeds of the proposed loan to the
Government on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para 87).
(c)  The release of the second tranche is conditional on the Bank being
furnished with evidence satisfactory to it thatt (i) the
macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the PE reform
program (para 46); (ii) continuous progress has been made in
obtaining adequate financing for Mexico's requirements for FY89/90
and over the medium term in the context of the adjustment program
and growth targets set forth in 'Mexico's Economic Strategy"
issued by SPP (para 41). In addition, the Bank would n-dd to
Teceive satisfactory evidence that:
(i)  CGF has been formally empowered to give final recommendation
on a case-by-case basis on the creation of PEs, their
subsidiaries and acquisition of companies by public sector
entities, consistent with the redefined Government role in
the production of goods and services (para 56);
(ii) continued progress has been made in restricting transfers to
PEs in a manner consistent with the approved FY89 Federal
Budget (para 60);
(iii) issuance of regulations to the PE Law of 1986 defining among
others: (a) Government agencies' role of supervising PEs
(para 67); (b) role and compositions of the PEs' BODs
(para 71); and (c) charters of PEs enhancing the role of
BODs' technical committees (para 72);
(iv) satisfactory progress in the implementation of the
Disengagement Program (para 55). For the five selected PEs
for the Performance Agreement scheme, have them operating
under the PA system (para 70);
(v)  the regulations of the Procurement Law has been issued
(para 63);
(vi) have the UCD fully staffed and operating according to charter
and satisfactory progress in the implementation of its action
plan (para 68);



- 51 -                          ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(vii)  satisfactory guidelines for the elaboration of sector plans
and corporate programs are provided in the National
Development Plan to be issued in mid-1989 (para 80); and
(viii)  satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Loan's
Plan of Action (para 100).



ANNEX IV
- 52 -                            Page 1 of 3
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
Nfxico, D.F.,    May 12 ,1989
DE
UWEUAY CREITS PIJDIJCO
MR. BARBER B. CONABLE
PRESIDENT
WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C.
1.  In the, last several years the Mexican Government has undertaken a
comprehensive adjustment program to correct imbalances and to remove
distortions from the economy, giving high priority to measures that will
further reduce inflation. The Present Administration is fully committed to
deal promptly with the current economic situation and to restore the
internal conditions for economic growth. For this purpose, and in strict
compliance with the Mexican Constitution, the Government has implemented
structural changes in the public sector enterprises. The objectives of
these actions are to provide an institutional and regulatory environment
which will increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the public sector
enterprises (PE).
2. Since 1982, the Government has implemented specific actions in order to
rationalize the assets held by the PEs, to improve their efficiency and to
reduce their deficit.
3.  In the last years the Government has undertaken an adjustment program
in order to remove any constraints to their efficiency. The three main
objectives of the program have been:  i) to adjust the size and the scope
of the non-strategic and non-priority PEs, by gradually disengaging or
merging a large number of firms and liquidating the non-viable ones; ii) to
restructure the operations, finances and organization of PEs; and ili) to
adjust prices and to reduce injustified Gqvernment subsidies. In addition,
the 1986 "Law of Parastatal Entities" was enacted to foster PE autonomy and
accountability. The disengagement program has been successful in reducing
the number of PEs to 411 (in march 1989) from 1155 six years ago.
4.   The Mexican Government will continue its efforts to improve the
efficiency of PEs, particulary through disengagement of the non-strategic
and non-priority ones and will implement the reforms needed to run the
remaining PEs more efficiently. The regulatory and institutional framework
will be further adjusted to enable PEs to operate within market conditions,
consistent with the efforts to maintain the primary surplus as approved in
the Federal Budget by Congress.



6  53 -                          Page 2 of 3
SECRETARIA
BE
NACIENUDATREDTO FUIJCO
5.  The Government's role in the production of goods and services will
continue in those strategic areas mandated by the Mexican Constitution
which empowers the Government to participate in priority areas. This
concept has been precisely defined in order to clarify the Government's
role and that of the social and private sectors In the economy.
Accordingly, and in addition to the strategic sectors mentioned above, the
Government, might get involved under certain circumstances, in the
production of other priority goods and services with a major social welfare
impact.
6.   Further disengagements of the non-strategic and non-priority PEs
constitute a key element of the Government's strategy to improve the
efficiency of the sector. Therefore,  the Government will continue the
actions on those PEs which are not considered as strategic or priority.
7. In addition to the disengagement program, the Government will continue
to take strong measures in order to improve the competitive environment and
the efficiency of the remaining PEs. This objective will be met through:
i) competitive cost and pricing policies;   ii) sufficient managerial
autonomy and incentives;  and   iiI) sufficient financial autonomy and
accountability.
8.  Cost and pricing poliei6s. It is the Government's policy that in the
case of PEs in non-competitive or non-tradeable sectors, pricing policies
will strive to meet three basic objectives: I) efficient allocation of
resources; ii) financial self-sufficiency under efficient operations; and
iii) affordability of basic services by the poorest segments of the
population. To achieve these objectives, the prices of PEs for tradeables
in competitive Industries will be liberalized.   Tradeables in non-
competitive industries prices will be set to reflect their economic
opportunity cost; Non-tradeable goods and services prices will be based on
their long-run marginal cost. If prices to low income consumers exceed
affordable levels, the tariff structure may be further adjusted to provide
relief to these targeted groups.
9.   Budget transfers to PEs in 1989 will be consistent with the 1989
Federal Budget approved by Congress.



ANNEX IV
- 54                             Page 3 of 3
SEWRTIE1
DE
NACEUATCEDT@PiIUC
10.   Nana'geri'tl anWtobo.aY  In order to foster managerial autonomy and
accountability in PEs, in 1986 the Government enacted the "Law of Public
Entities". The corresponding regulations are being currently reviewed and
will be issued on october 1989. The balance between the needed autonomy and
the required monitoring by the Government was achieved by: i) simplifying
the excesive regulatory framework and administrative controls to which PEs
were subjected to; and ii) providing greater decision-making capacity to
the Board of Directors of the PEs to strengthen their autonomy.
11. To ensure accountability of management and to assure that PE8s will
perform in accordance with agreed objectives, the Government has already
established a Performance Agreement (PA) Unit and appointed the Unit
Coordinator, within the Comisifn Intersecretarial Gasto-Financiamiento.
12.  Financial utto'nowt. The PA will be based on medium-term corporate
plans prepared by the enterprises and approved by the Sector Secretariats
In accordance with the Law of Public Entities. To ensure consistency with
sectoral and national development priorities, guidelines on the elaboration
of PE medium-term corporate plans will be included in the National
Development Plan.
PEDRO ASPE ARNELLA
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT



FaL2C OfEFZ
PART I,    eoet"poot Proars
Policy objectiv.                 Actions taken                  Popoeed      ur e.ontor bt  ctime  nd tielog
1. Continoe the- pree     af      Enactoent by Cngres    1. owf;ne clerly the role of the           1. Government R4ol in Peoductien of coods and Servi,*c
dIn*ngageet of norstrategic    of the Parmstetst ie    tovern_ont in the productive sectow,
PE*, to satisfy the               enab ing disngage-       to guide farthee dle.ggeentse and           b board preeentetion, define Governsntes role end policy in the productive and aervice ator,
Governeent'- fundneetel           Pent of public sector    regulate esteob hment of ne  PE-, in   end clearly deine criteria of Ppriorityo setor for covorneent ,.Sio.potion, in accordnce with
bj ectives of improved            enterpri es (PEa).       accordance with the prifnciplea stated    the Constitution and the corresponding  awe. Thee. criteria, as nero presnted ir te docuast
enterprise efficiency, and        Establiaked a            in the Constitution and the              aCritorioe Generaleo do Politic  Eeonceioa' subeitted to Congree, state that, ascpt frw the
adewqte financial return.         flexible proce_s for    corroponding  tee.                         astroetgic* sectore  conetitutienttly defined, the Covern_nt wit I not  et Involved in enterpria..
Private sector will aesuas        tho psal. tranefor                                                or esteblieh nmw poretoteo or PE eubsidiaries, or acquire *isleting private asctor caopeleo which
primary role in undertaking       end liquidation of       2. Strengtebn and continue the Pe        are of a core5citl nature or involvd in the preduction of tradeable goods. e*cept In coas of
nd reeeeuing wenomic              PiE.                     sales process of non-etrategic PMi       sigificant arket fi lureo involving the production of gcooda/ervice, with eajor social welfore
activity in a competitiv*                                                                          i;pct. Such role i- being incorporated in the National Development Plan.
environent.    wowernnt role    Reduction in the           S. For remaining large companies
focus on policy or regulation,    nuaber of Pe f*roe       thet will require agnificant             2. Strenothmn end Continua the PE Sales Procoes
with the mateption of             1155 (1982) to 4tt       re*tructirngs and sector policy
pearatatele that are in           (March 89). In the       chatne prior to eale. ;inite             By baord Presentation. atrangthsn the overall PtE sles proceer   (i) oetebl; ah a copoetitive and
*trtegic and priority             proc. sold  ovr          regulatory changb  that permit thes e transparent proces; and (i;) esteblish le ar objective and flsaitbl PE sale  proe duro.,
aetore.                           200  talt- and           enterprises to operate o  5              appopriate to sore coopl*v caos es
_ediu_-cigd PE*.         come_rciel bais in a sore
Competitive environant, durins the       3. RSetuceuitr.i
restructuring end pule period.
before board presentation:  Ci) make final decision for the  nlection of th  fol toing five PEi to
incorporate thee into tho Perfor_anc Agreement ech_e: Ahass  Carbon y linsrales do Coaheita,
Ferronaln, Ferti_en and Sicarten; and (ii) furnish to the Bank the universe of PcE aIready
included in the Governmentb  Di eengag.at Progre.
For escond trancho release. (i) for the five ol acted PM   have tha operating unde tho
Perforeanc Agraent Ptln; nd (i ) satisfactory progres in the impleeentetion of the
Cowornaent'a D;olengaest Progras.
4. permanence of Refo-r
POr necond trancho relone. Coas;iin Geato-i ne;nciei;nto will be foral ly eapowred to give final
recossndation on a eas-by-cea  basis on the  reation of PE. (and eubsidiarles) or the acquisition
of roapanine by Government off ics--consistent with the redefined priority' concept,
1/ All actions scheduled by Board preao*ttion in Parte I to V under the -ectione 60nitratlt actione end tilnag  have already been iptleaned.                                                                V
00
I.'



PA"T 11, La--- nt  n h  CmaL,lv INy renact far Pmbhl ai Intmvsrlaa
Fog icy .~~j.ctip4sio" t.ls.                                eroppoo  inaaiwee                                                  IbeiteeWe "ctime mid timing
.    du.ppice d.atertlon  Aee"d erogrwm to liberalize         1. (I) Giaw.rmnat's FE pricing pol Icy to met        S. my heasd gr.eentetion. (i) furnith to V  the    the Goverements eteteemit
mad iucresee capetItlef to    Azim   in steel ajmd reach.          objectives of efficient ml loction of reemrcee.    an price pol icy for Pb, apecifying Its Inteetion to wave tonerdep Mortet-
iqirove reenarce oflloctien.    internetionl non-eubeidiaed        financial self-sufficiency under efficient           detersined Prices for tradeeble products, IN coopeitiive aectol. NWd to ant
gi"in facti izr. The"a          operatione. mid affordebi I ity of4 basis aervicee   prices in non-coetl"tive mirkete based co ecomioic opportuuity mite
program. hawever. hve" bea         by the poor.                                          (intereetionel prime or long-ru. aerginl met. ee eperproiee)i Gad (ii) in
teaporerily inepended due to the    (ii) In order to further reduce, Gaernemit           connection with other operetione for Peortimes. Sidevnees. Conuiep. CF. mid
iiiplmmuttica of both th ES        tranefere to Fee. mod to wake thee finmiciel II      FeNrroanlee. Gbovrnemit boe developed appropriete Programe of price adjuetomit.
mid .EC.                           eelft-efficimit. thab  euieure  to loerove
reimiumi of PbD.
Peel ieinary etudy on ggomm5       2. Assei. degree of pricedistorion 'for ito           2. Start, by July 31. 1989. a etudy to determine the iconeic gerice of ral Oeay
ar.i*nft of electricity In CM.      later elimination.                                   traniportetlon ION Ilaico.
B&LiLa~sizilge for goode   S. lameo revised rem1 ation to the PP La..               S. For eeccmid tnanchi release. Iowae the raviosd roeglatione to Pulic
alto"e free choice of supplliers.                                                        Procureeent Low clarifyins treeteset to local mid foreign auppliere.
Un
ZR. Seduce barriere to entr    Redmefinition of Govt. rol, mid     4. Reduce barriere to mitr  by definingl Priority     4. See reepective ectione recomended under Pert I of this natra.                     0
mid edit to inereaee            enecution of the diveetitumre       sectors, in accordance with the Conetitotion and
coopeititm in Pb&              progne for FPb, which included      eppropniete Owee. Reduce baririer  to oeit by
moprations.                     e       Pb in priorityr eecto-re. in   gredel ly Pheuing out direa" mid indirect
eccordaseo with the Conatitution    aubeidiwe to PEb. as def oa  above.
end eppropri.te lava.
III. Sedue. facto  "Are        Eff iciancy improveeente            S. Increee  private eaorU participation. in          S. Stert, by July 811. 1989. a etuily to lncreaee Private  eorw preseenc  in
dietortionsfe tooiprcov          ndertaken in connection with      accordance with the Constitution and appropriate      aiwse dnoented by lerge Pb (e.g.q. contracting oAt, lemingI. etc.).
raourece at location,          onginga operations.                ltoe, int  ectora currantly doelnated by Pb*.
Pimed at reducing entry berrnie. to m
oesgiane of theee aectorm by promoting
contracting out activitE.
IVd. Institutional andw        Steel nector e"treep  ii being      6. on *inting. due to the significant reduction       S. ily October 81. 31989). ISOP to comance a study to reeseemi the raol of
organiztional reforme           finalizedl. Fertilizor plant.       af PE preeence in the aector. so welI as the         governeent alning atgenciee.
conduci ve to a sor             ciceure plani Under iaploaentetion   need to foster private investmeant. remeeeee the
awspetitive envirorAeunt.       mid FBTMEX's. eetsbl lshent of      role of eaverneent .meacue.
profit cantrn  ii under study. A
reduced nwitber of b%cic*
petrochanicafs has bean1
reclassified so 6eecowdery*
products.
Polle7 ebji ;s_ P_ _r- iDi*zbwbl *eXie i *l ir4N
____                                                                        :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1. i ptte eiie_ ~t bre_ X1l ib I. (i)-* s PE pelci ppiley e _e I. Et td t4tee, (i) fid  X W* t_ @ _
1_  lXla   i>  ete  i-_I  egt  ned eNjct;veeeJ teenX *lWieFeR r_ereZ  tle loltrtfenr E!e Cfwtl  ttle Xo _zti0e



amac
Pt  I 0'lbt.rom a ra"lirst. i hase,l. *.Oms,sd Ausmtsb IISu
Fbld cpbject,.         Action. Wks"                 proposed mowt. -                                                                  *A| t   ead tl-oo
L To Iqroe         botm    of Lim    1. Fed_. *exo _a def ine rolo. of Government   1. For Effortlvem.es. ae4eeft to furnish to  the ck dft re lsfiome woder U  FE eLa of 140.
effcloayo PE       of Publ Ic          smowse dIlh4 wIth PbEs. bo wvoe th  ea           defliala  PE e.petvlor  role. of  oermt secies. cl-  glag the r*opoaelbilI    me sI tl_  is the
w1i1 b. accorded    bterprlees.        b..   -ge mattel tomard. gmps                    attaced Yable 1. mod ceverlg the pounte   belw.
pri_ter mm.-                           supervision _esasem. bee" em perform..
seinl estemoop.      "monlee do        eo reemmto.                                      2. Ut Semd Tmmd.e, PE Lso  regulations an 9        ahould be lew", _etsblitlie  "th      (l) Ase 1    of
Ap eprloate        relIbli  itoomPE Pb. 3m eddliiem to rpree_emttlves of VP, SCP sd te r_elewat sctoer minstry. will ieotlu  a
e_omutsblIIto       osed in *ime       2. Redeflme dotorsh_ip, qtilificatioms and       el;plfifst imrlotu of esf _r free m         e    tl e "sot       ece   e  probited by the Pbo  W-
A-;e       3w11     eJer setr-         poers of PE bord of Directore (i) by             Lew; (33) Used esther vill receive Wemblves tor pertiolpetiem  ad thir pertfom   will be
be _ebobli_had     Priced.  Coi-       appropriste implementation of 11 PBE lsw.        revoesd samuslly by the Sector            Ine ci ollaboatle  w;tth the 3Ws som-perfroleg 1111  e er
WAd trpemth-       vs3"o Deficit                                                        could be rsplcedl (; ;I) Baed  ethere wold be 1  i the tim  "Wd the reeurcso to Prepadequetely
O_Wa.              OF  Islt$           S. Rdefit  role e   ettributiome of FI'          for theIr assignments; and (iv) critfris *iIl be oft for the purpoe of deteros   tihe   alxt. _mde
also"  3m the      mwastbmt. to mlleo it. Ir, comiumotiom with       of  O  in ebldc  * bard esther my sere. tebiag into secemat the com_oeitip  es NWd other r1leveat
mjoritr of          1 sad ilC40 tsomicsl committees. n.d Ir          persmetert of the Pb.
imduarisl Pls,    the fr _mo   of werfesm@. danceset apet_m
to bi Ioplomted, drester letitud  ca             3. by Se4cod Treache. lsm"  reulatloe of the FE Le of 125. empho l,lsi  the role of %mical
Devlo_emt of       operatioal  "ealso. sod to  .6 'n   timely        cemittse. of i. to provIde flesibillt  to the  E  dci_leo-doWoo p          ase   facilitat, the
Cl) b  lteo-       oa~.                                             freeweac  of decilom coatings. epem _ma*$oomt reo_ust.
grsted PE imfor-
aectemn at"         . Develop sad Iatwrdsc  a epstei of              4. Wp bhed pr_eatetion:  (1) seaabl isb the tkided da Cavemlea de D _essomo (la). ettachd to th
and (I1) * oem-    Perfereac  Agregemens. to be implsemeted by a   Movaue/lapeaditere COeeieaie. to be the  Ac   l*cenl a"trlt whidc *ill csoe.dimet the   -   t le_me.
puterlse  date     mm r Mided de Cogsvemle  de Desomemee (UC0).      -tm cemeItetloe  with the  le0bl11_adora4s NW Sacte Ce ordimet.re-of erfor_mae aProem ae with *i;
biA for P'         to set quarterly s_d ypseal  lesJobjectivo.    (it) epolmt the  it Coordinator; sad (3) 4C to low. a PIsa of Action for the develomatfire
4audi   fia    a_ omitor   rforerac   ptrvide emoetary roinrd        applicaleom  of the epete. FPrfeose. Agreemato wsill Inelvde 3mdloetee of profItability, Gmo
ciel stetoseis.   S" pnaultis. add ;eo** e_Iuol repot.               Contaiment. Phical productivity. efflency la lkolmetlag Imetet pror_m sa _  ether *i-lr
Imdicstore. W  ecad trsohet (3) U-O to be fatly e pertlas eccordill to e.lmdete  (ii) sip Pd. is _e
D. Etatbligfeh rade financial __sem eat         ffue selecte   i sad how. thee operatimo wader the PA *eptol a"d (Ill) setlefctory preV    Is
tolc. eptem ond procedures.                      ,iplststbn emof il'D  Ple  or Action.
6. Standardize acocuatima sod seditiag           S. W  Jwly St. 196, Stor Minletry to i_me TM  _d re_uet for bide for ceemlm    o ro
ew_tee. applied il Pfb.                          stim clam, to s_es" ad Improve 3m selected FE firmacil   eg_ee_  t*o, develonop  go
plamils praaoi  . sad _prop_ r_eial m_awrcas me mesry.
7. Rationalis rportia  eyster  to slamlize
iforatliom floae to dote _0eetial for            S. bp Aeguet St. 1965, SuP elIl furmlth satisfactory evideae obwb the eiplsesatXolem  of ea *gron  to
Goveranmet evaluastin sad plsaalig  sa  need     prt  the knoledge 1A  proper me  of the OCetloga do Forestee e Iaettlwe  del SsItor
of l.D.                                          Persette.6 be sew, the meo of the n_t reliable sod t_m,.  f_asocial and sccomtla. isf erti e
evol lebl.
7. eV September _ ., 1It. W to l_.w. revised integrated  afornstlemtia  eee   beed an r _c     ;_diemp 
of. SPP-or3 NWd _*elae  _ining    . s@w. dF     P* SeW er e  Coerloew. UC4 ad  the _     tamical          p 1
Sec rterlst of Revesuejt apditore Cea ieaelom.



Flow objectivee               "me tiehd imoass                                                                       _himtorle ecti<m  god tiulag
1To olaen.e. bte"et         A Lim co Psriewbtel      1. SPP to rvi_e. budoe proceii to provide PE with greeter          1. ft Boptoals, g. SM, VP will foeriah, to theo.    as  Astlo. Plua.
-eeteioti..e em P.           "it    , we.            aetonoW eand gccouetabl il ibed  e  review of "ishing hIedgetyp  wm  sod regivteti_ns. to
tbwldita  thee wth          pro_inelgetd ia. lw to                                                                      .a  lify. dereglate. ead inks we fl,esibi tWe bedgetrproom  sad tife
fiftsacaa   _mo  to          _ike.. fiasacami                                                                           ilmpt_ietlo. foe FP  _ade Fos.
boooe wwe             and    SWtoveg.
goomteablo.
11. To ratloveila, the                               2. Ov.lop, *t SVP   swate of eultl-per invstmen.t .laaaing         2.  (a) Up 1eptehomr 1. 1W. prets Toer  of R_feroe to the _1o  for e
oerell invsm                                         for proj*ec  thot re;uir ODowe t fingeciag. The sete               sandy oqt multi-peer laveetmet _veluetloi, dW *_ohraming. oomo,
proggim  .do... to                                   .Oe.ld i;ncude ectio" glud at ioe'oi  No. .ffaca.ep a.             financial &dtedificel crlhra. for I .,.@                   eo.uti *eteli* t;-ss
avoid deer, a. Neon-                                 pl_;enn.  prertPng sod i.Polemting puiblnveetmete.                 of ceetrglaad unit foe Investmnt miswing. mad inas  o muals; (b) by
wootatleos. NW to                                                                                                       October 15. 1*. oamo e_t tudpa (e) by April Is. toW". provid  to
prioritiag project                                                                                                      ed diem,w , Seek * Slth efeatoep  ol, of d Com for *e w ." a.
ago lemtetao..                                                     *egogot to Ce) ebove; wed (4i) rit   iaogge.wt_iom of mm  edgeting
eocduree for ettesg     fueeded  lvt oeeat rojectuotNW ad e s   ,a.                I
dith the See  by Aeeee 81. IO  on _lmgastaop of' e4ddoritimi ml we.               LA
if neesry.                                                                        OD
111. To I pre., th.         Several FE. theei        3. sectiK 10"Oetri.e to devlop planse. fraeor  for M0 to    S. For _eg d teche release* furnish to the Sek the gul ieese dct
go; itp of PieS corporate   so*o  Secreteriet and   develop cOrpor.t  plow sad ;leetment progrme.                       will It   e .11 tog   tojel Oev*logcet Pblea foe thu siu01boreti  of moto
ples.                        th  SWP he" aprovd                                                                         NW corporate p      _ro m.
the qulity of their
corporate #lgm over
pst  eace.
IV. To  l Sea Pbe to        The  "gggat agmet    4. Pb should reduc  oeratinge cene. end adjust price                   4. U  Bord premmtotie. Waeeio_t thet the epigrugte b,dgWstry
grdullp become flne-        of treaefre to Pe        grdal p to e*Iisaito operatin  deficite.                           oeeneateel Plos ev.eotmat tragtere to P_  Is           wi ll be I. i eccn Peo a
ciellp *ef-aeffaci.t,       has bme  elpificaetly                                                                       with the aped 19* Fer I   dget. io  geced _raechu eglegue
thurebpW apievie  Federal   redueced dur;ng the                                                                         o"We" Ued *pg      In molsing    u           s            WIth the,
Go*erot'. flecl              pOet Yars,.                                                                                apr od SM  Fe"ral ewg".
brdm".
V. All.w Pb and d      'iti   Receet for-treching     5. Seb  individuel borrowig liS;te per PR il coleweta  with
bi_eb  to eet.&lid  am       fingecll  oS.            individul corporate pleas   and el budget approved by
OlgiOeedelp   go ers        rerto.. (see FSL).       Congrem of the Pb. DOellow Cbverawut credit subsidles.
lengh beets upo" the         Iecluding a radwction    gue"waoee, or ay Other pefereatiel tretmat fow Pb vie-_-
editeothieeeoe of Pb.        In force  camwrcil       wis beake that woud be Inconeicteat with the objective.
lending to the          Bake will  v vluate loop reeueete be_d eo thO
Goverent.                crsditworthinam of th  FE and the commercial viabilit d                                                                                          4of
such loan rqete.                                                                                                                                 O



Pae. 5 of 6
S -



- 60 -                                               ANNEX V
Page 6 of 6
Tab]la 1MAiN SUPIN  v SOW iL3S ACRD!N  TM IP LAW
Role of
Role of          Role of           Role of            Uni dad de Con-         Role of               Role of
venice de
Role of SPP           SHiCP          Contraloria    Sector Ministry         Oeseapeno (lCD)       ord of Director.   PE Managemtnt
-  Approves      - Sets overall   x- iercises        - Defitne  businesa     - kdvi;se COF     - Appoints,         - CEO reco_mende
overall         ceilings to         Coaeiaric       ehartor. and            for it to         uPon                appointment and
PEe'            banks on cr*d-      role and        propo Ie lquids-        recomend          recomandsti         dismisal of
Budgets nd      ito to PEi,         define.         tion- and Sle.          appointtment.     on of CEO.          middle
their mjor      and eso  few        external                                a diemiamle.      2nd A 3rd           manager.
investment.    enterpriee          auditing       - Sets ovorall           by Sector          level
epec ifC           rules.           policy and *etr-       Ministry. of       managers.        - Cuidee the PE
-  Approve-        credit limits.                      tegy for te             Chairman of                           towerd. agreed
transfer                          - Attends         sctor as a Whole.       SD a ird        - Define.             upon woale.
for           - Serve. on           Bard                                    mebert.           bylag.
operational     Bord.               (voice not   - Eatimate. and                                                - Approve salary
/ debt                              vote),           pproveo invest-      - Coordinates     - Approve.            structures for
subsidies.    - Approve.                             ment by PEs over       the               annual              2nd A 3rd
individual       - leaue           caerptin limit and      Negotiation       budget.             level. of
-  Serves on       request. for        regulatory      eubmit. for final       of                                    management.
Board,          foreign loan..      gi de-I in..    approval of SiP.        performnce      - Sets
for                                     goal. with        pricing.          - Decides on
- Through the PE     internal       - Aures conris-          PE.                                    inveatent
sale. Office.      audit. of       teney of corporate                       - Approve            parameter.
administers        PEi  and the    plans with              Monitors per-    investments          (locationt
and monitor,       auditing        sectoral medium-        formnce on         and borrow-        product line.
the PE e.lo        comittees       term plans.             quarterly and    ings.                etc.).
Process,                                                   annual, ex-
- Serves on the          pot basis.       - Monitors         - Prpoes annual
- Approve.                          BSord,                                      performance        bud9ets on the
monopoly                                                 - Immue. annual    closely              basis of
pricing.                         - Appointe/di sis         reporte.           (bionthly)         received
mority of Board                           A provides         guidelines.
ebers.               - Set. resrds/       diecipline
- Appoint. a              Us" op---         vO"alu   t           oYective
disaicees CEO.         formance.                             agroeemet with
p Aprove.            labor.
fina ncial
et.tement/
accounts of
PE.
- Approve.
corporate
plan submit-
ted by
malnagemen
and forward
it to Sector
mi n ietry.
-Aq?Prov*z
dtvidend
payment.
Approves
major
procurement.



ANNEX VI
-61 -Pagel1of I
.~~~ *
i! A     0;g* 
* f~~~~~~I
Af        I!
'I~~~~       '- i12t 
I~.~ e .bi'
I~~~~~~~ i'Si    ,i§



- 62 -                                             ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 2
A.  nentr umaar. of Paratele
Candidate. for the
PE Refeor Progam:
aseOts value so S
of tatal easte of
itemizd PE
Wuaber of      Tetel ease" a  PE*            In budget
pr"tatatel.     titeaie in the budgot   (aonl. P90t A CRI)
(n*.)     (lglmsIStrilltin)  Ci)               )
I. I&LUti i
A. Lrare  PEa Itemized In the Rudest
Power 0ewrotoS1                                                             43.58        28.8
Pbor ditttibution                                            1               8.77         9.4
Rail 13S                                                     1              11.84         6.7
Ai rpore                                                     1               1.87         0.6
RoAd                                                         1               1.82         1.1
Teleconf nicationa                                          1i               N.A.        N.A.
Metro'                                                                      _____         A&
t°                                         ~~      ~      ~~~~ ~~~1*  N.A.  
Subtotal                                                                8.88        87.8
_. PEu NDS litmied in tes Budeet
Urban traneport                                              2
Per"                                                        17
Coomm_aunten agenciee                                        e
Rod/transpert agencites                                     1
Subtotal                                               41
t. Oil Production, Refinery & Basie pnt- BjaLc  L                     1-I
Subtotal                                                               76835        45.2
Irr. Industrial A li4nine
A. Larer PEi  Itemize& in the Budaet
Truck/tractor mnufucture                                     2               0.76        O.              1.6
Forti lI.r                                                  1               4.98         8.0            10.2
Rail car mnfacfture                                          1               0.11         0.1             0.2
Paper manufacture                                            1               0.20         0.1             0.4
Sugar mill (30) & distribution                              1               1.07         0.6             2.2
Stoel sills                                                  2               12 01       .. 2J
Subtotal                                                               19.18        11.8            399.
8. Me Not Iteeji&d in lhe Budget
Foundri e                                                    3
Shipyard,                                                    3
Small mining                                                18
Sugar mi I                                                  3g SO
Small paper manufature                                       4
Refractory bricks                                            2
Rubber manufeture                                            2
Tube manufacture                                             1
Turbine * electric motor manufacture                         2
Secondary petrochemical                                      I
Holding for other te eli II i                                1
Subtotal                                               78



ANNEX VII
- 63 -                                    Page I of 2
Candidates for the
P Wwt " S:
assetst value a. S
of total °ot Of
iteize Plb
momber of     T ale.  of PE                 in budget
pareartetlo    t".;"d In the budiet       (eai. Pxc     S C* U)
(no.)    (1987 most tril lon)  C5)             (3)
IV. A       rrcultu   4 Firi
A. Larer Mg Itemied  In the Sudget
iood mrketing centers                                       1               85?          2.4
Fishery                                                                     0.8          0.6
Forestry                                                    2               0.0         0.0
Coffee                                                      I               LL
Subtotal                                                               4.86         8.1
S. PEn Not itemized In te Sdot
Food di-tributicn/storage                                  24
Seal I agroinduatri..                                      11
Pisheries a fiah cold atorag*                              .1
Subtotal                                              45
V. Finnciel Inatitutiona (Not Itemized in the ludneti
Co;ecial * develpcent banks                                so
Ineuranre c oopnlea-                                        4
Money  geencIes                                             2
Real *etote invest. * dow. agno.                           19
Trust fund for sectors I cred Idt                          SO
Trust funds, for eatra l eupport                          -4
Subtotal                                              la
VI. Social Servies. A other Acenc;&&
A. Large, PEA Itemixd In the Dudoet
Social security                                             2               4.71         8.1
Lottery                                                     1               QLI JL
Subtotal                                                               4.88         8.3
S. Pb Not Itemlied in tho BUdeat
Education reaarch/eupport inat.                            o9
Theatare A pub$ iahlng compani;,                           21
Re-sarch institutes                                        17
Consumer support agencies                                   5
Social ecurity support int.                                12
Helth inotitutes   hospital                                1S
Mining A industrisl support agencirs                        9
Urban devlopment                                           11
Other agencie s
Subtotal                                             159
Total: PE& itelisd In budgst                          22             168.79       100.0
Other PEb                                    427
8RD1  TOrAL                                          "I
Sources: Asset dat-SPP, *Cuenta de la Hacienda PubI ice Federal 19878; number of entarpriwes-SHP.
A/ Though classif ied as *OrganlaoY EDpreea no Controladoe Presptal ta (DOP) te detaI led Iteised budget of both
Pb to inctuded In the Annuat Econoaic Reort of thc Pr"eidnt. (See *nareao Casto Publ Ico de to Organ;ema y Ereaa  No
Controldos Presupueatalmenta' in 'Sexto Informe do Cobirno 1988').



ANNEX VIII
- 64 -                                              Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
Table VIII.l: Mexico - PE Investments in 1981-87
1981  1982  1983  1984   1985   1986   1987
In billions of current pesos
Total PEs                                        385   505   640   979  1,369  2,187  5,268
PEMEX                                            231   285   348   469    598    953  2,292
Other PEs                                        154   221   292   509    771  1,234  2,977
In billions of constant pesos
Total PEs                                        305   249   166   159    142    130    129
PEMEX                                            183   140    90    76                     62         57          56
Other PEs                                        122   109    76    83                     80         73          73
As I of GDP
Total PEs                                        6.3   5.2   3.6   3.3    2.9    2.8    2.7
PEMEX                                            2.8   2.9   1.9   1.6    1.3    1.2    1.2
Other PEs                                        2.5   2.3   1.6   1.7    1.6    1.6    1.5
Source:  Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico.
Table VIII.2: Cash Floe for alI PE. Included in the Fral Budept. Excludine PBElt
CIn Con-tent 1976 Mexd'000 mll Ion)
1978    1979    1980    191    1982    1988    1984    1968    196             1987
Net sales reveue.                   174.9   185.4   192.0   201.9   221.0   198.9   244.1   928.8   219.9   227.4
VWs                                  84.9    68.8    72.5    84.1    98.1    7J.8    69.9    69.8    61.9    88.0
other direct coet                   112.    109.9    =,I   161 S    14S     1            61.7   1191  14    12I.A  lE.8
aro" mrgin (before int.)             -2.7      6.8    -9.4   -48.7   -20.6   -8.8   -15.6    -2.4           8.2    1S.8
Interest                             "A   ILZ   gm4    L!   ELJ   AL4 QL2   MA   a"   123
Snternal cxah gneration             -18.2   -11.9    -2.8   -70.5   48.4   -93.9    -7.7   -8.2   -85.0   -15.4
Investment                             JZ    A". 91.           84.S    84        MLO    MA2    ALL    ALl    M4
Financeal gap (before not debt
fl ows   govt. transfer           -78.8   -es.9  -124.8  -185.0  -188.8  -180.9  -132.8  -110.8   -81.1   -8.8
Governmnt transfere                  U.0 tOL   S              101.3   11Z   l170   104.J    ILM           ZLS      ALA
Cae  oveal able for debt           -21.    -28.7   4e.6   -88.7   -24.1   -88.9   -28.8   -12.6    -4.8    -8.S
amortization (i.e., principal)
oross wren/not selee (i)             -1.6      8.7    -4.9   -21.6    -9.8   -18.4    -6.4    -1.1          2.4      6.9
Int. cah tsen/net sales (1)         -10.4    -6.4   -17.1   -84.9   -26.4   -47.2  -41.8   -24.6   -1.0   -4.8
Flrnec. gap/net eales (5)           -42.2   -48.8   -64.9   -76.8    42.8   -78.9   -8.4   -48.8    46.9   -28.1



ANNEX VIII
- 65 -                                          Page 2 of 2
Table VtU.L: CEw .lPo FERI. i Lnd  SlcS                     aCan  ild-td Cub Fler
(In Conatent 1978 1x4S'Ow dEl  iton)
1978    1979    180    181    198i2    1988    198         19S    1986    198
Not salee rOVenueS                  65.1    6.8    84.7    68i.5    76.5    70.1    89.5    78.0         2.s    78.9
Vae                                 22.0    28.8    24.6    26.9    28.7    21.0    18.4    20.1    17.7    18.5
Other direct mete                   MA      EA4    ILI       aL2  lii    f             ILI    lILI      ILI    NU
oroe margin (befre
mnt. & deprec.)                 (11.8)   (4.3)  (17.8)  (46.1)  (24.3)  (88.2)  (28.8)  (13.2)   (8.8)  (10.5)
Interee                              lA  IA    A   MLA   MA!  Li   MA 4iA   Mi   lU
Internal caeh  nwertion            (24.7)  (21.0)  (39.2)  (70.4)  (60.1)  (88.8)  (71.5)  (58.0)  (37.0)  (27.2)
Investment                          MA      4S.       AU      MI      Il    AAA        Li.       IAU!    AU      AU
Fimnneial ap befe  net debt
*1s & govt. transfer             (68.7)  (6.O)  (92.5) (15.4)  (114.2)  (180.0)  (109.6)  (90.4)  (67.5)  (59.8)
Cavern_nt transfere                78. fJ                    ZA          i    IA i 7     d     flMZ      IZ LZ 
Ceeah avalabl* for debt
amortization (i.e.. principal    (25.0)  (27.1)  (30.2)  (49.4)   (21.8)  (88.1)  (28.8)  (10.9)   (S.8)   (8.6)
arCoe sign/net meleo  CS)          -17.4    -t.5   -27.5   -70.3  -41.8   -S4.5   -26.1   -17.6   -11.7   -18.9
rnt. aah gen/not sales (1)         -37.9   -81.6   -60.7  -107.5   -78.6  -122.1   -88.6   -70.7   -S.1   -35.8
Financ. gap/net *ele,              -90.2   -99.4  -148.1  -191.5  -149.2  -185.5  -131.2  -120.9   -93.8   -78.1
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ANNEX IX
- 66 -                          Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
Alternative Disengaatement Procedures
Chart 1: "DISENGAGEMENT' PROCESS - FLOWCHART
SECTOR MINISTRY (SM)
PROPOSES
"DISENGAGEMENT"
SPP                   >   REQUESTS
ISSUE FORMAL                    CNF
RESOLUTION       <           OPINION
SALE        LIQUIDATION              MERGER               TRANSFER
PUBLISHED IN        PUBLISHED ON          PUBLISHED IN
OFF. GAZETTE        OFF. GAZETTE           OFF. GAZETTE
SHCP              SM                   SM                   SM-SPP
APPOINTS         PROPOSES             CONVENES              AGREE WITH
FINANCIAL     LIQUIDATOR OR         SHAREHOLDERS              STATE
INSTITUTION    SHAREHOLDERS           MEETING OF             GOVERNMENT
BOTH COMPANIES
YIT  I   IL   ZYL
FINANCIAL      LIQUIDATOR             MERGING                 SM
INSTITUTION    PROCEEDS WITH          COMPANIES             TRANSFER
CONDUCTS          LEGAL               SIGN                 SHARES
VALUATION,      FORMALITIES           MERGER
OFFERING,                           CONTRACT
BIDS ASSESM.
SHCP        SHAREHOLDERS
ACCEPTS OFFER       ASSEMBLY           CONTRACT
INSTRUCTS         DECIDES            PUBLISHED
FIN. INST.      LIQUIDATION           IN OFF.
SIGNING OF      PUBLISHED IN          GAZETTE
CONTRACTS       OFF. GAZETTE



- 67 -                          ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
Detailed Procedures for Disentagement
The required initial disengagement steps, common to all of the
four methods--sale, merger, liquidation, or transfer--are as follows:
Step
11    Informal coordination/consensus is reached  among interested
Secretaries.
t 2    The Sector Secretary (SEMIP for industry, energy and mines)
formally proposes a list of candidates for disengagement to SPP.
On the basis of company analysis it might be sale, liquidation,
merger, or transfer. The proposal                    might also
include specific recommendations to consider during the process,
e.g., regional employment, monopoly status, etc.
i 3    SPP requests the opinion of CGF (the Inter Secretarial Commission
on Expenditures and Financing), and issues the formal Resolution
(in agreement with the President's office) authorizing the
disengagement. SPP also decides on the utilization of the
expected proceeds. (Arts. 8 and 9 Budget Law; Arts. 16 and 32
Parastatals Law; and Arts 11 and 32 Public Administration Organic
Law)
* 4    The resolution is not published in case of sale. It is published
in the Official Gazette in all other cases.
t 5    (i) Authorization to Liquidate.  The liquidation and dissolution
of PEs is carried out under the provision of both the Corporate
and Parastatals Law. The shareholder's assembly appoints the
executor with a full mandate to liquidate the company. For group
subsidiaries, the holding company is responsible; other cases are
taken care of by the SCU. According to Law (Sociedades
Mercantiles, Ley Gral. de Bienes Nacionales), the process must
include formal steps like technical appraisal of corporate
assets, and public bidding for selling assets among others. Once
the sale of assets and cancellation of liabilities is performed,
the shareholders assembly approves the dissolution of the
company. This resolution is published in the Official Gazette.
(ii) Authorization To Merge. According to Law (Federal law of
Parastatals, and General Law of Corporations), PEs are authorized
to independently merge among themselves. Nevertheless, each SCU
has traditionally requested a formal authorization from SPP to
proceed with the merger. The execution of the merger is proposed
by the SCU as a shareholder, or by the respective holding group.
The Merger Agreement is then ratified by a shareholders assembly
of both corporations. It is published in the Official Gazette.
(iii) Authorization to Transfer. Transfers are performed under
the provisions of the Budget and Public Administration Organic
Law. The related SCU executes the transfer, while SPP and the



ANNEX IX
- 68 -                          Page 3 of 3
State Governor sign the Agreement by which the Federal State
freely transfers the shares of the corporation.
(iv) Authorization to Sell. CG-F issued a formal Sale Procedure
for non-strategic and non-priority parastatal agencies on
March 25, 1987. Accordingly, the Secretary of Hacienda (SHCP) is
responsible for the execution and monitoring of the sales process
(Art.3). SHCP first appoints a financial agent from a core group
of 5 state-owned Banks that will have full responsibility for the
valuation, marketing, and sale of the company under the
provisions of the Law. (Economic Cabinet Resolution 08/05185; and
Art. 31 Public Administration Organic Law). The financial agent
undertakes the following activities: (a) makes the corporate
financial/technical analysis; (b) defines the method of sale; (c)
recommends a minimum price; (d) produces the Offering Memorandum;
(e) contacts potential purchasers; (f) requests, receive, and
assess the bids; (g) reports to SHCP the results of the bids; and
(h) once approved by SHCP, formalizes the sale contract. If the
minimum price is not achieved, the Commission on Expenditures
might review the case, setting new selling criteria, or declaring
the sale ineffective and opting for another divestiture option.
The procedures stipulate that at least two bids must be received
in each case, and also provides a right-of-first refusal to
existing private shareholders, and the company's union. (Art. 32
of the Parastatal Agencies Law.) The regulations on sale
proceeds appropriations established by the CGF are as follows:
(i) deposited without recourse in the National Treasury in the
case of disposing directly federally owned PEs; (ii) in interest-
bearing accounts of the controlling holding group in the National
Treasury for subsidiaries of other PEs; (iii) in all cases the
proceeds should previously compensate reimbursable transfers
outstanding from the Treasury, or liabilities for the assumption
of foreign debt; and (iv) the accumulated balances should finance
social programs, if they are already included in the Federal
Budget.



- 69 -                                  ANNEX X
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REOMRM
Technical Assistance
Responsiblo        Aetion       Estimated Cost
Action                                   Agency            Date            (Vo')
Studies to Be Commissioned
(1)  Economic Pries In FERRONALES              SCT              7/81/89               so
(tl)  Role of mining sector agnctes             SEMIP            9/81/O9              eo
(iii)  Private Sector Development In             Sector           7/81/O9               75
PE dominated areas.                       Ministry
II.   Spectalized Support on the Following
Tasks
(I)  Development of the Prformance             COF              5/OR                  O
Agreemnt blueprint
(Ii)  Support to Improve financial              SHCP/SPP         7/89                  go
management tools In salected
PEe
(itt)  Issu  a sioplitfied Integrated            COF              7/O9                  60
information system for PEe
monitoring
(iv)  Performance Agreements                    COF              7/OR                 1S
preparation for selected PEn.
III. Trainina
(a)  UCD                                       COF                                    9g
(b)  PEs                                       COF/Sector                            225
Ministry
IV.  Unallocated                                                                             188
T o T A L                                                                            1,m



1                                                                                         0                                      
j~:                                _     __r_             _    _(



