Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3086 ME
                (Public Enterprises Reform Project)
                              between
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 16, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3086 ME
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1989, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(the Guarantor)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the  Bank  has  received  two  letters both dated
May 12, 1989 from the Guarantor, such letters together  describing
a program of actions, objectives  and policies designed to achieve
restructuring of the  Guarantor's  public enterprises (hereinafter
called the "Program"), declaring the Guarantor's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and  requesting assistance from the Bank
in the financing  of  imports  and  services  required during such
execution;
     (B)  it  is  contemplated  that  the  Guarantor  may  require
assistance from the Bank in the implementation of a Debt Reduction
Plan;
Page  2
     (C)  by an agreement of  even  date herewith (the Loan Agree-
ment)  between  the  Bank  and  Nacional  Financiera,  S.N.C. (the
Borrower), the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies  equivalent  to  five  hundred  million dollars
($500,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but  only  on  condition  that  the  Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the  Borrower in respect of such loan
as provided in this Agreement and to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
     (D) the Guarantor and the  Borrower, having been satisfied as
to the  feasibility  and  priority  of  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to  the  Loan  Agreement,  have  requested  the Bank to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (E)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the  Program,  to provide such assistance to
the Guarantor by making the  Loan  in two tranches to the Borrower
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of  the  Bank,  dated  January  1, 1985 (the
General Conditions), with the  modifications  set forth in Section
1.01 of the Loan  Agreement  constitute  an  integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to  and  Section  1.02  of  the  Loan  Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
            Guarantee; Provision and Transfer of Funds
     Section 2.01. (a)  The  Guarantor  declares its commitment to
the objectives and the carrying  out  of  the Project set forth in
Schedule 2  to  the  Loan  Agreement,  and  to  this  end, without
limitation or restriction upon any  of its other obligations under
the Guarantee  Agreement,  hereby  unconditionally  guarantees, as
primary obligor and not  merely  as  surety,  the due and punctual
payment of the principal  of,  and  interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the premium, if  any, on the prepayment of the Loan,
and the punctual performance of  all  the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall enter  into the contractual arrange-
ments referred to  in  Section  3.01  of  the  Loan Agreement and,
except as the Bank may  otherwise  agree, shall not change or fail
to enforce any provision of such contractual arrangements.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor  shall  carry out Part B and,
if  so  determined  under  Section  3.05  of  the  Loan Agreement,
Part C of the  Project  with  due  diligence and efficiency and in
conformity  with   appropriate   commercial,   administrative  and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Page  3
Project.
     (b) Without limitation upon  the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section,  the  Guarantor  shall  carry  out  Part B of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) The  Guarantor  and  the Bank, and the Bor-
rower pursuant to the provisions  of  Section 3.02 (a) of the Loan
Agreement, shall, on a quarterly  basis  and at the request of any
party, exchange views on the  progress of carrying out the Program
and the actions specified in the Schedules to this Agreement.
     (b)  At least ten days prior  to each such exchange of views,
the Guarantor, and  the  Borrower  pursuant  to  the provisions of
Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement, shall furnish to the Bank,
for its review and comment,  a  report  in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request,  on  the  matters specified in paragraph
(a) of this Section.
     Section 3.03.  The  Bank  and  the  Guarantor  agree that the
obligations set forth  in  Sections  9.04,  9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09  of  the  General  Conditions  (relating  respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition) shall be carried
out by the Guarantor in respect of Part B of the Project.
     Section  3.04.  Except  as  the  Bank  may  otherwise  agree,
procurement of goods, and services required for the Project and to
be financed from the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The  Guarantor  shall  provide,  or cause to be
provided to the Borrower, all  documents and records in respect of
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan required
to enable the Borrower  to  comply  with the provisions of Section
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
     Section 3.06.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01  (a)  of  this Agreement, the Guarantor
shall take all actions as  shall  be required for implementing the
provisions under Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Guarantor  shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records  and accounts adequate to reflect,
in  accordance  with  consistently  maintained,  sound  accounting
practices, the resources and  expenditures  in  respect of Parts B
and C of the Project.
     (b)  The Guarantor shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by independent and
               qualified auditors;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
Page  4
                             ARTICLE V
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 4.01. The  Director  General  de Captacion de Credito
Externo  of  Secretaria  de  Hacienda  y  Credito  Publico  of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Guarantor:
          Direccion General de
            Captacion de Credito Externo
          Secretaria de Hacienda
            y Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio,
            Mariano, 4o. Piso
          06066 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
                                       Telex:
                                          1777313 - SHDCME
                                          Mexico
                                       Telefax (905) 5 42 45 81
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:               Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                     By /s/ Lic. Gustavo Petricioli
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and The Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  5
               Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4(d)
                of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement
1.   That the Guarantor  has  made  progress,  satisfactory to the
Bank, in the implementation of the PE Divestment Program.
2.   That the Guarantor has  empowered CGF to make recommendations
for the approval or rejection,  on  a  case  by case basis, of the
creation of PEs and PE Subsidiaries.
3.   That the  Guarantor  has  issued  revised  regulations to its
Public Procurement Law, providing  procedures, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the provision of services by local and foreign suppliers
and contractors.
4.   That  the  Guarantor  has  issued  the  PE  Regulations  sub-
stantially in the  form  of  the  draft  submitted pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
5.   That the Guarantor  shall  have signed Performance Agreements
with PEs acceptable to the  Bank,  and that such PEs are operating
under the Performance Agreement Plan.
6.   (a) That UCD is  fully  operating  in accordance with the UCD
Mandate; and (b) that progress  satisfactory to the Bank, has been
made in the implementation of the UCD Action Plan.
7.   That the Guarantor has  furnished  evidence  to the Bank that
the National Development Plan of the Guarantor contains guidelines
for the  elaboration  of  sector  programs  and  that  such sector
programs contain guidelines for PE corporate programs.
8.   That the Guarantor  has  made  progress,  satisfactory to the
Bank in restricting PE Transfers during Fiscal Year 1989 to levels
consistent with the total aggregate  PE Transfers contained in the
Guarantor's Budget for Fiscal Year 1989.
9.   That the Guarantor  has  made  progress,  satisfactory to the
Bank, in carrying  out  the  Implementation  Program  set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
          Action                                 By
I.  Competitive Environment
1.   Commence study, under terms
     of reference acceptable to
     the Bank:
          (i)  on the economic price              July 31, 1989
               of railway transportation
               in Mexico; and
         (ii)  on methods to contract, on a        July 31, 1989
               competitive basis, with pri-
               vate sector companies,
               services and activities
               which are currently
               being undertaken by
               selected PEs
        (iii)  to reassess the role of            October 31, 1989
               governmental mining
               agencies in light of
               the reduced participation
Page  6
               of PEs in the mining sector.
II.  PE Managerial and Financial Autonomy and Accountability
1.   Provide to the Bank, terms                      July 31, 1989
     of reference, satisfactory to
     the Bank, to assess and improve,
     the financial management of
     selected PEs, and propose
     remedial action, as needed.
2.   Furnish to the Bank evidence                  August 31, 1989
     that a program, satisfactory
     to the Bank, for the use
     by the PEs of the accounting
     and auditing rules included
     in the CFISP.
3.   Revision by CGF of the                     September 30, 1989
     integrated information system
     to be followed by the PEs in
     the provision of information
     for evaluation and planning by
     the Guarantor.
4.   (a) Furnish to the Bank, terms of           September 1, 1989
     reference, satisfactory
     to the Bank, for a study on
     public investments evaluation
     and multi-year investment
     programming procedures by, or on
     behalf of, the Guarantor,
     including development of manuals,
     setting economic, financial
     and technical criteria for
     sector specific investments
     evaluation and establishing
     a centralized unit for
     monitoring such investments;
     (b)  Commence the carrying out              October 15, 1989
     of such study pursuant
     to such terms of reference;
     (c)  Complete such study pursuant           March 15, 1990
     to such terms of reference; and
     (d)  Provide to, and discuss                April 15, 1990
     with, the Bank, a plan or plans
     of action, acceptable to the
     Bank, to adopt measures to
     improve public investment
     evaluation and programming
     procedures.
     (e)  (i) monitor the                        August 31, 1989
     implementation of its
     budgeting and payment
     procedures for
     externally funded
     public investment
     projects; and
     (ii) exchange views
     with the Bank on the
     implementation of
     such procedures and
     on the measures
     to improve such
     procedures.
5.   Furnish to the Bank,                        September 30,
     a plan of action,                           1989
Page  7
     acceptable to the
     Bank, to deregulate,
     simplify and expedite
     the budgeting proced-
     dures and practices
     applicable to PEs
     under the Per-
     formance Agreement
     Plan.
